



Download Request: Select Items: 501-1000
Time Of Request: Wednesday, February 21, 2018  23:21:14
Send To:







Terms: terror!


Source: UK Publications
Project ID: None



                               1 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                            Business Monitor Online

                              May 23, 2014 Friday

Several Killed In Terrorist Attack In Xinjiang

LENGTH: 136 words


News: On May 22, a series of blasts at a morning market in Urumqi, capital of
the restive Chinese region of Xinjiang, killed several people and wounded
several others (Xinhua). The blast, which occurred near a park in the city, led
to flames and heavy smoke, according to photos posted on Chinese social media
site Weibo. The vast, resource-rich far-western region of Xinjiang has seen a
series of violent incidents in the last few months. Crisis in the region are
reportedly due to cultural repression of local Uighurs, intrusive security
measures and immigration by majority Han Chinese, which has resulted in decades
of discrimination and economic inequality, according to rights groups. However,
the Chinese government has claimed that its policies have led to prosperity and
higher living standards in the region.

LOAD-DATE: May 24, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Political Risk Alert

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newsletter

JOURNAL-CODE: OEMO


               Copyright 2014 Business Monitor International Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                               2 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                          China Daily European Edition

                              May 23, 2014 Friday

US condemns terrorist attack in China's Xinjiang

SECTION: POLITICS

LENGTH: 192 words


WASHINGTON - The United States condemns the " horrific" terrorist attack in
Urumqi, capital of northwest China's Xinjiang Uygur Autonomous Region, the White
House said Thursday.

"This is a despicable and outrageous act of violence against innocent civilians,
and the United States resolutely opposes all forms of terrorism," White House
spokesman Jay Carney said in a statement.

Carney said the United States is "aware of reports that the attack resulted in
the death of 31 citizens and the injury of 90 more."

"We offers our condolences and sympathies to the victims, their families, and
all those affected by this attack," he added.

Two vehicles, without license plates, broke through roadside fences and plowed
into people at an open-air market in Urumqi on Thursday morning. Explosive
devices were set off, causing the deaths of at least 31 people and injuring 94
others.

In response to the attack, Chinese President Xi Jinping pledged to severely
punish terrorists and spare no efforts in maintaining stability, asking local
authorities to solve the case quickly, put the injured under proper care and
offer condolences to families of the victims.

LOAD-DATE: May 23, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2014 China Daily Information Co
                              All Rights Reserved

                               3 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                          China Daily European Edition

                              May 23, 2014 Friday

Surging terror attacks demand concerted global efforts

SECTION: POLITICS

LENGTH: 155 words


BEIJING - On a cloudy and quiet Thursday morning, the market near People's Park
in Xinjiang's Urumqi came to life with peddlers and residents as usual.

With drizzle softly dampening their shoulders, local elders leisurely walked
through the market, stopping from time to time to greet each other.

Suddenly, two vehicles without license plates broke through roadside fences and
plowed into the people going about their daily business.

"Boom! Boom!" Explosive devices were set off. In a second, the tranquil and
harmonious market became an inferno.

"Four senior citizens were run over and killed in front of me."

"The cars went past near my stall, an old man near us was hit and I was in fear
for my life."

"People were screaming and crying. There was blood on some of them. It was
horrible."

These were some of the accounts witnesses told Xinhua.

The latest figures say the terror attack killed at least 31 people and injured
94 others.


LOAD-DATE: May 23, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2014 China Daily Information Co
                              All Rights Reserved

                               4 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                          China Daily European Edition

                              May 23, 2014 Friday

Day after terrorist attack, residents express shock, anger

BYLINE: GAO BO in Urumqi and CAO YIN

SECTION: SOCIETY

LENGTH: 482 words


Most of the shops and restaurants on the street opened their doors to business a
day after the Thursday where 31 people died in a terrorist attack, while
residents said they were fearful and angry about the incident.

Normally, stores and restaurants around the fruit and vegetable market on
Gongyuanbeilu, the site of the attack, are busy on a Friday, but customers
didn't stop by until after noon, when dozens of students from the No 5 Middle
School, located on a street corner adjacent to the market, dropped by for lunch.

At a community complex gate near the scene of the attack, as a few residents
talked about the incident, armed police and a SWAT team patrolled the street.

On Thursday morning, two cars without license plates plowed into patrons at the
packed fruit and vegetable market. The cars' occupants also threw explosives
into the crowd, killing 31 and injuring at least 94.

Yang Kaizhou, director of Yangzijiang Road police station, said the fruit and
vegetable market on Gongyuan Beilu will be permanently closed.

Although the city seemed to return to business as usual on Friday, residents
expressed their indignation at the terrorists.

Regul Shayita, who was injured in the attack, said she underwent surgery at a
Chinese hospital. She said she had taken her grandson to school on Thursday
morning and was returning home when the explosions occurred.

"I don't understand why these guys threw explosives into the market. They were
really inhumane," she said.

Tian Jufeng, 79, was also injured in the attack and received treatment in a
local hospital.

"The terrorists were too cruel," he said, sobbing and trembling.

Alif Memet, a community official in the regional capital, said he was saddened
to hear that most of the victims were elderly people.

"They had just bought their breakfasts and were ready to share it with their
family members, but then the attack occurred," Memet said. "The incident, I
believe, has shocked every resident in Xinjiang. We need to enhance our
awareness of terrorism and improve self-defense."

Memet said residents should report suspicious people to the local government.

Rezya Habas, deputy director of the road building and management bureau in
Urumqi, said the attack trampled on the rule of law. He said people with a
conscience will not tolerate such behavior and said the terrorists are the enemy
to all nationalities.

Zhao Yan, a teacher at a primary school in the city, said she will tell every
student to learn how to protect themselves during class.

"If relatives of the terrorists are also injured in an attack, how would they
feel? Don't they have family members?" Zhao said angrily.

In an interview with China Central Television on Friday, Ayitula Yumay, a street
sanitation worker, said she is against those who cause harm to people and was
sad to hear that the attack injured almost 100 residents.

Cao Yin in Beijing contributed to this story.

LOAD-DATE: May 23, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2014 China Daily Information Co
                              All Rights Reserved

                               5 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                          China Daily European Edition

                              May 23, 2014 Friday

International community strongly condemn Urumqi terror attack

SECTION: POLITICS

LENGTH: 938 words


BEIJING - Strong condemnation of the terrorist attack that claimed over 31 lives
in China's northwestern city of Urumqi poured in from the international
community on Thursday.

Russian President Vladimir Putin sent his condolences to the victims of the
attack, which took place at a morning market earlier on Thursday and left 94
injured, via a message to Chinese President Xi Jinping.

In the message, Putin strongly condemned the bloody crime, saying he hoped the
organizers will be found and prosecuted, and confirmed Moscow's interest in
further strengthening Russia-China cooperation in fighting terrorism and
extremism.

Putin also sent condolences to the relatives of those killed and wished a speedy
recovery to those injured in the attack.

Afghan President Hamid Karzai on Thursday condemned in the strongest terms the
killing and injuring of many innocent people.

Karzai offered his heartfelt condolences to the people and government of China
and called the attack "an act by the enemies of peace and stability who don't
want to see our region grow secure, stable and developed."

The president stressed that the Afghan people, more so than others, can well
understand such pains and grief as they have long been victims of terrorist
attacks.

He also expressed his deep condolences to the families of the victims and wished
a quick recovery to those injured.

The South African government condemned all forms and manner of terrorism.

"We believe that terrorism in any form and from whichever quarter cannot be
condoned," the country's Department of International Relations and Cooperation
said in a statement.

France, Hungary and Greece, as well as the European Union (EU), also lashed out
at the terrorist activity and showed sympathy with those who fell victim, with
the EU branding it a "senseless act of violence."

French Foreign Ministry spokesman Romain Nadal expressed his country's
solidarity with the government and the people of China in this ordeal.

Hungary was shocked by the Urumqi attack, stressing that terrorist activities
targeting innocent civilians are severe crimes and can not be accepted under any
circumstances.

Greece also strongly condemned the act, expressing solidarity with the Chinese
people.

"We condemn in the most unequivocal manner the deadly terrorist attack carried
out today in China, in the city of Urumqi, in the Xinjiang region," Greek Deputy
Prime Minister and Foreign Minister Evangelos Venizelos said in a statement
released by the ministry.

"We express our solidarity with the Chinese people and our condolences to the
families of the victims, and we wish those who were injured a speedy recovery,"
he added.

"The European Union condemns this senseless act of violence and extends its
heartfelt sympathies to the families and friends of the victims," Maja
Kocijancic, a spokeswoman for EU foreign policy chief Catherine Ashton, told
Xinhua on Thursday.

Australia's ambassador to China, Frances Adamson, has joined the global chorus
of condemnation, reporting that the Australian government is concerned by
reports of the explosions in Urumqi.

"We extend our condolences and deepest sympathy to the victims of the attack and
their families," she said.

"The Australian government deplores all forms of terrorism and condemns any
attack on innocent people."

Pakistan also voiced its condemnation and showed sympathy with the government
and the people of China.

Iran said acts of violence and extremism targeting innocent people anywhere in
the world are condemned and such moves have no connection with the principles of
Islam at all, Iran's Foreign Ministry spokeswoman Marzieh Afkham said.

Vietnam strongly condemned the terrorist attack and extended deep condolences to
the Chinese people and relatives of the victims. Vietnam's Foreign Ministry
spokesman Le Hai Binh said he hoped that the culprits would be brought to
justice.

Also on Thursday, Shanghai Cooperation Organization (SCO) Secretary-General
Dmitry Mezentsev condemned the violence, expressing the SCO's strong indignation
and deep sorrow.

"We express deep-felt condolence to the victims and convey sincere solace to
relatives of the victims and the injured people, " Mezentsev said in a
statement.

It is the priority of the SCO to fight terrorism, the statement said, adding the
international community should further boost cooperation to combat terrorist
activities effectively.

The Palestinian presidency condemned the terrorist attack.

"We condemn with the strongest words this heinous crime," Nemer Hammad,
political advisor to President Mahmoud Abbas told Xinhua.

"We support our Chinese friends, and wish speedy recovery to the injured, as
well as prosperity, safety and stability to the people of China," Hammad added.

Chinese Foreign Ministry spokesman Hong Lei said China has the confidence and
capability to crack down upon the audacious terrorists.

"The violence, a further indication of the terrorists' anti-human, anti-society
and anti-civilization nature, should be condemned by the Chinese people and
society," Hong said.

In response to the attack, Chinese President Xi Jinping pledged to severely
punish terrorists and spare no efforts in maintaining stability, asking local
authorities to solve the case quickly, put the injured under proper care and
offer condolences to families of the victims.

Two vehicles, without license plates, broke through roadside fences and plowed
into people at an open air market in Urumqi, capital of northwest China's
Xinjiang Uygur Autonomous Region, on Thursday morning. Explosive devices were
set off, causing the deaths of at least 31 people and injuring 94 others.

LOAD-DATE: May 22, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2014 China Daily Information Co
                              All Rights Reserved

                               6 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                          China Daily European Edition

                              May 23, 2014 Friday

China's police chief calls for severe punishment on Xinjiang terrorist attackers

SECTION: POLITICS

LENGTH: 350 words


URUMQI - China's minister of Public Security Guo Shengkun on Thursday called for
doing utmost to treat the injured people in Xinjiang terrorist attack, and
severely punishing those terrorists.

Guo, also a state councilor and leader of the national anti-terrorism leadership
group, went to Urumqi immediately after the deadly attack.

The attack on a market in Urumqi left at least 31 dead and 94 injured on
Thursday morning. Two vehicles, without license plates, broke through roadside
fences and plowed into people at an open-air market at Gongyuanbei Street near
Renmin Park at 7:50 a.m. and explosive devices were set off.

Evidence on the scene of the crime showed that it was a premeditated and
organized terrorist attack.

After checking the scene and learning the process of the crime, Guo held a
meeting in Xinjiang Uygur Autonomous Region's publicity department, deploying
the investigation of the case.

He said the incident showed the terrorists' nature of anti-human and
anti-society, calling for making a thorough investigation of the case quickly,
and severely punishing the terrorists in accordance with law.

"The case warned us that we should keep a vigilant eye on anti-terrorist work,
and take an iron-handed attitude to launch a special campaign against terrorism
in Xinjiang," said Guo.

Guo went to the People's Hospital of the Xinjiang Uygur Autonomous Region
(XUAR), visiting the injured people in the attack, and conveyed President Xi
Jinping and Premier Li Keqiang's regards.

He urged medical staff and related departments to spare no efforts to treat the
injured people.

Guo also urged to make all efforts to safeguard social stability, strengthen
integrated prevention and control measures, and further screen potential
dangers.

He also called for strengthened armed patrol in crowded places, control of
dangerous and explosive items, and severely punish all kinds of serious crimes.
Guo urged the local authorities to rely on the people and the grassroots.

Guo urged officials to keep a clear mind and a firm stance in the complicated
situation, and do more to promote ethnic unity.

LOAD-DATE: May 23, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2014 China Daily Information Co
                              All Rights Reserved

                               7 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                          China Daily European Edition

                              May 23, 2014 Friday

Britain condemns terrorist attack in Xinjiang

SECTION: POLITICS

LENGTH: 183 words


LONDON - British Foreign Secretary William Hague on Thursday condemned the
terrorist attack in northwest China's Xinjiang Uygur Autonomous Region, which
left at least 31 dead and 94 injured Thursday morning.

"I was saddened to hear about the terrorist attack that took place on a market
in Xinjiang, China, on the morning of 22 May, killing more than 30 people. My
thoughts and condolences are with the victims and their families," Hague said in
a statement.

"The UK strongly condemns violence in all circumstances, and we stand firmly
with the Chinese people at this time," he added.

Two vehicles, without license plates, broke through roadside fences and plowed
into people at an open-air market in Urumqi on Thursday morning. Explosive
devices were set off, causing the deaths of at least 31 people and injuring 94
others.

In response to the attack, Chinese President Xi Jinping pledged to severely
punish terrorists and spare no efforts in maintaining stability, asking local
authorities to solve the case quickly, put the injured under proper care and
offer condolences to families of the victims.

LOAD-DATE: May 23, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2014 China Daily Information Co
                              All Rights Reserved

                               8 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                                  Daily Mirror

                              May 23, 2014 Friday
                                   Edition 1;
                                    Ireland

Market terror attack leaves 31 dead

BYLINE: adrian sHaW

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 170 words


BY ADRIAN SHAW TERRORISTS killed 31 people and injured about a hundred in a bomb
attack at a street market in China yesterday.

Suspected Islamist extremists ploughed through shoppers in two 4x4 vehicles and
threw explosive devices out of the windows.

The attack happened in Urumqi, capital of the Xinjiang region, which has
suffered previous outrages.

One eyewitness said: "The air was full of the smell of gunpowder and the sound
of sobbing. There were simply too many casualties - old folks who were at the
market." The series of a dozen explosions ended when one of the attackers'
vehicles burst into flames.

The atrocity was the worst of several in recent times and officials fear the
death toll could rise.

Two months ago, 29 people were stabbed to death at a railway station in the city
of Kunming and, in Urumqi this month, one man was killed and 79 people injured
in a bomb and knife attack.

The attacks are believed to have been carried out by Islamist separatist groups
who want to form a state called East Turkestan.

LOAD-DATE: May 23, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: HORROR SCENE Policeman surveys the carnage
DARK DAY Smoke rises from street
INFERNO Flames rage all round the street market

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DMR


                            Copyright 2014 MGN Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                               9 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                                  Daily Mirror

                              May 23, 2014 Friday
                                   Edition 1;
                                Northern Ireland

MARKET TERROR ATTACK KILLS 31;
Separatists strike in China outrage

BYLINE: ADRIAN SHAW

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 171 words


TERRORISTS killed 31 people and injured about a hundred in a bomb attack at a
street market in China yesterday.

Suspected Islamist extremists ploughed through shoppers in two 4x4 vehicles and
threw explosive devices out of the windows.

The attack happened in Urumqi, capital of the Xinjiang region, which has
suffered previous outrages.

One eyewitness said: "The air was full of the smell of gunpowder and the sound
of sobbing. There were simply too many casualties - old folks who were at the
market."

The series of a dozen explosions ended when one of the attackers' vehicles burst
into flames.

The atrocity was the worst of several in recent times and officials fear the
death toll could rise.

Two months ago, 29 people were stabbed to death at a railway station in the city
of Kunming and, in Urumqi this month, one man was killed and 79 people injured
in a bomb and knife attack.

The attacks are believed to have been carried out by Islamist separatist groups
who want to form a state called East Turkestan.

adrian.shaw@mirror.co.uk

LOAD-DATE: May 23, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: DARK DAY Smoke rises from street
horror scene Policeman surveys the carnage
INFERNO Flames rage all round the street market

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DMR


                            Copyright 2014 MGN Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              10 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                   MailOnline

                        May 23, 2014 Friday 6:07 PM GMT

Survivors tell of terror after China market attack

BYLINE: ASSOCIATED PRESS

SECTION: AP

LENGTH: 826 words


URUMQI, China (AP) - The assailants tossed explosives from two SUVs as they sped
through a packed vegetable market, mowing through customers and wares. Mrs. Li
was working the public scale to weigh produce when one of the cars knocked her
off her feet.

"It was so fast, it was like a plane flying," Li, 70, said Friday at a hospital
where she was being treated for a broken hip.

The assailants set off more fiery blasts, and all together 43 people were killed
and more than 90 wounded in Thursday's attack, the latest - and bloodiest -
violence in China's far northwestern Xinjiang region in recent months.

A day after the attack in Xinjiang's capital of Urumqi, survivors told of their
terror and said they no longer feel insulated from a long-simmering insurgency
against Chinese rule, which has struck their city twice in recent weeks.

Mrs. Li's daughter said the danger of violence was now a much greater factor in
the daily lives of Xinjiang's ethnic Chinese population.

"The violence used to be distant, but now I have my mother lying in the bed
suffering. The danger is right here with us and we dare not go out," said the
daughter, who declined to give her name.

Local authorities said police have identified five suspects - four people who
died in the attack and another who was caught Thursday - the official Xinhua
News Agency reported. It said all five had "long been influenced by the
religious extremism."

Chinese authorities have blamed most recent attacks on radical separatists from
the country's Muslim Uighur minority.

Xinjiang is home to the native Turkic-speaking Uighurs (pronounced WEE'-gurs)
but has seen large inflows from China's ethnic Han majority in recent decades.
Uighur activists contend that restrictive and discriminatory policies favoring
the Chinese migrants are fueling the bloodshed. The knowledge that Muslims
elsewhere are rising up against their governments also seems to be contributing
to the increased militancy.

Another woman in the hospital ward, Mrs. Zhang, had just bought her morning
fruit and vegetables when an explosive tossed from one of the SUVs slammed her
to the ground.

"The SUVs were mowing down people and goods alike," said Mrs. Zhang, 71. "It is
not safe here anymore. We don't have a sense of security," she said.

Urumqi was relatively calm Friday, with heightened security around the scene of
the attack. The market itself was closed and dozens of police armed with
automatic rifles and wearing body armor guarded access points.

Police banned parking within 100 meters (yards) of schools in Urumqi and said
drivers can stop only briefly outside hospitals and bus and train stations.

The violence was the deadliest in Xinjiang since riots in Urumqi in 2009 between
Uighurs and Hans left almost 200 people dead, according to an official death
toll. Thursday's attack also was the bloodiest single act of violence in
Xinjiang in recent history.

Recent attacks show an audaciousness and deliberateness that wasn't present
before. Attackers increasingly target civilians rather than police and
government targets.

A bomb attack at an Urumqi train station as President Xi Jinping was visiting
the region last month killed three people, including two attackers, and injured
79. Security has been tightened since then.

In response to Thursday's attack, Xi pledged to "severely punish terrorists and
spare no efforts in maintaining stability," Xinhua reported.

China's top police official, Public Security Minister Guo Shengkun, was
dispatched to Urumqi as the head of a team to investigate the attack.

At a Thursday briefing in Beijing, Foreign Ministry spokesman Hong Lei said the
violence "lays bare again the anti-human, anti-social and anti-civilization
nature of the violent terrorists and deserves the condemnation of the world
community and the Chinese people."

In Washington, the White House put out a news release denouncing this
"despicable and outrageous act of violence against innocent civilians" and
noting that "the United States resolutely opposes all forms of terrorism."

Prior to last month's train station attack, Urumqi had been relatively quiet
since the 2009 ethnic riots amid a smothering police presence. The sprawling
metropolis' population of more than 3 million people is about three-fourths Han
Chinese.

In March, 29 people were slashed and stabbed to death at a train station in the
southern city of Yunnan. The attack was blamed on Uighur extremists bent on
waging jihad, or holy war.

The increasing frequency of attacks shows growing frustration among Uighurs over
government policies seen as discriminatory, said Raffaello Pantucci, a terrorism
expert at the Royal United Services Institute for Defense and Security Studies
in London.

"The issues are not getting resolved, and in some ways are getting worse,"
Pantucci said. "People are left feeling they have no hope."

___

Associated Press writers Christopher Bodeen in Beijing and Aritz Parra and Andy
Wong in Urumqi contributed to this report.

LOAD-DATE: May 23, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDM


                   Copyright 2014 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              11 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                   MailOnline

                        May 23, 2014 Friday 12:56 PM GMT

Survivors tell of terror after China market attack

BYLINE: ASSOCIATED PRESS

SECTION: AP

LENGTH: 700 words


URUMQI, China (AP) - A blast that killed 31 people in China's restive Muslim
northwest left ethnic Chinese residents on edge Friday about sporadic violence
from which they no longer felt safe.

"The danger is right here with us and we dare not go out," said the daughter of
a 70-year-old woman who was hospitalized with a broken hip after Thursday's
bombing at a vegetable market. She refused to give her name.

The attack was the Xinjiang region's bloodiest single act of violence in recent
history and the second in two months in its capital city. A bombing at an Urumqi
train station in April killed three people and injured 79.

There was no claim of responsibility and authorities released no details Friday
of an investigation led by China's police minister.

Authorities have blamed other recent violence on separatists from the Muslim
Uighur ethnic minority that is native the Xinjiang region. Beijing has claimed
groups in Xinjiang are linked to Islamic terrorist movements abroad but foreign
experts say they see little proof of that.

A foreign ministry spokesman appealed for international condemnation of the
attack, which also wounded at least 90 people.

"These terrorists, whatever their purposes, will not possibly have their way,"
said the spokesman, Hong Lei, in Beijing. "We hope the global community can join
China in the condemnation and fight against terror."

Uighur activists say an influx of settlers from the dominant Chinese Han ethnic
group and discriminatory policies toward minorities are fueling anger and
violence. The knowledge that Muslims elsewhere are rising up against their
governments also seems to contribute to increased militancy.

On Friday, security was tightened around the bombing site but life in most of
Urumqi went on normally.

The market where Thursday's attack occurred was closed and dozens of police
armed with automatic rifles and body armor stood guard. Authorities banned
parking within 100 meters of schools throughout the city and said drivers could
stop only briefly outside hospitals and train or bus stations.

Witnesses said the attackers in two SUVs drove through crowds of people shopping
at the vegetable market and threw bombs that knocked people off their feet.

"The SUVs were mowing down people and goods alike," said a 71-year-old woman who
gave only her surname, Zhang. She was hospitalized with crushed toes and other
injuries. "It is not safe here anymore. We don't have a sense of security."

Zhang spoke to The Associated Press in a four-bed ward guarded by armed police
at Urumqi's Traditional Chinese Medicine Hospital. Soon after, doctors and
nurses ordered reporters to leave.

Another woman, who would give only her surname, Li, was working at a public
scale when she was knocked off her feet by one of the speeding SUVs and broke
her hip.

"It was so fast it was like a plane flying," Li said.

Recent attacks show an audaciousness and deliberateness that wasn't present
before. Attackers are increasingly going after civilians rather than police and
government targets.

Last month's train station attack in Urumqi occurred as Chinese President Xi
Jinping was visiting the region, usually a time when security is at its
tightest. Three people including two attackers were killed and 79 people
injured.

Security in the city has been stepped up since then.

Prior to the train station attack, Urumqi had been relatively quiet since the
2009 ethnic riots amid a smothering police presence. The sprawling metropolis'
population of more than 3 million people is about three-fourths Han Chinese.

In March, 29 people were slashed and stabbed to death at a train station in the
southern city of Yunnan. The attack was blamed on Uighur extremists bent on
waging jihad.

The increasing frequency of attacks shows growing frustration among Uighurs over
government policies seen as discriminatory, said Raffaello Pantucci, a terrorism
expert at the Royal United Services Institute for Defense and Security Studies
in London.

"The issues are not getting resolved, and in some ways are getting worse,"
Pantucci said. "People are left feeling they have no hope."

___

Associated Press writers Christopher Bodeen in Beijing and Aritz Parra and Andy
Wong in Urumqi contributed.

LOAD-DATE: May 23, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDM


                   Copyright 2014 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              12 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                   MailOnline

                        May 23, 2014 Friday 11:27 AM GMT

Survivors tell of terror after China market attack

BYLINE: ASSOCIATED PRESS

SECTION: AP

LENGTH: 863 words


URUMQI, China (AP) - Mrs. Zhang had just bought her morning fruit and vegetables
when an explosive tossed from one of two speeding SUVs slammed her to the
ground.

Scrambling to her feet, without her shoes and hat, she fled while the two
vehicles plowed through a crowd of shoppers before setting off more fiery blasts
in the latest - and bloodiest - violence in China's far northwestern Xinjiang
region in recent months. The attack killed 31 mostly elderly people and wounded
more than 90.

"The SUVs were mowing down people and goods alike," Mrs. Zhang, 71, said Friday
at a hospital where she was being treated for crushed toes and other injuries.

"It is not safe here anymore. We don't have a sense of security," she said.

A day after the attack in Xinjiang's capital of Urumqi, survivors told of their
terror during the attack and said they no longer feel insulated from a
long-simmering insurgency against Chinese rule, which has struck their city
twice in recent weeks.

While the perpetrators haven't been named, Chinese authorities have blamed
recent attacks on radical separatists from the country's Muslim Uighur minority.

Xinjiang is home to the native Turkic-speaking Uighurs (pronounced WEE'-gurs)
but has seen large inflows from China's ethnic Han majority in recent decades.
Uighur activists contend that restrictive and discriminatory policies favoring
the Chinese migrants are fueling the bloodshed. The knowledge that Muslims
elsewhere are rising up against their governments also seems to be contributing
to the increased militancy.

Zhang, who didn't want to give her full name out of fear of her safety, had four
of her toes crushed but didn't know whether that was from a bomb or the ensuing
stampede Thursday. She spoke to The Associated Press in a four-bed ward guarded
by armed police at Urumqi's Traditional Chinese Medicine Hospital. Soon after,
doctors and nurses drove reporters out.

Another woman in the ward, who would give only her surname, Li, had been working
at a public scale when she was knocked off her feet by one of the speeding SUVs
and broke her hip.

"It was so fast it was like a plane flying," said Li, 70.

Her daughter made clear that the danger of violence was now a much greater
factor in the daily lives of Xinjiang's Chinese population.

"The violence used to be distant, but now I have my mother lying in the bed
suffering. The danger is right here with us and we dare not go out," said the
daughter, who declined to give her name.

Urumqi was relatively calm Friday, with heightened security around the scene of
the attack. The market itself was closed and dozens of police armed with
automatic rifles and wearing body armor guarded access points.

Police banned parking within 100 meters (yards) of schools in Urumqi and said
drivers can stop only briefly outside hospitals and bus and train stations.

The violence was the deadliest in Xinjiang since riots in Urumqi in 2009 between
Uighurs and Hans left almost 200 people dead, according to an official death
toll. Thursday's attack also was the bloodiest single act of violence in
Xinjiang in recent history.

Recent attacks show an audaciousness and deliberateness that wasn't present
before. Attackers increasingly target civilians rather than police and
government targets.

A bomb attack at an Urumqi train station as President Xi Jinping was visiting
the region last month killed three people, including two attackers, and injured
79. Security has been tightened since then.

In response to Thursday's attack, Xi pledged to "severely punish terrorists and
spare no efforts in maintaining stability," state-run Xinhua News Agency
reported.

China's top police official, Public Security Minister Guo Shengkun, was
dispatched to Urumqi as the head of a team to investigate the attack.

At a Thursday briefing in Beijing, Foreign Ministry spokesman Hong Lei said the
violence "lays bare again the anti-human, anti-social and anti-civilization
nature of the violent terrorists and deserves the condemnation of the world
community and the Chinese people."

In Washington, the White House put out a news release denouncing this
"despicable and outrageous act of violence against innocent civilians" and
noting that "the United States resolutely opposes all forms of terrorism."

Prior to last month's train station attack, Urumqi had been relatively quiet
since the 2009 ethnic riots amid a smothering police presence. The sprawling
metropolis' population of more than 3 million people is about three-fourths Han
Chinese.

In March, 29 people were slashed and stabbed to death at a train station in the
southern city of Yunnan. The attack was blamed on Uighur extremists bent on
waging jihad, or holy war.

The increasing frequency of attacks shows growing frustration among Uighurs over
government policies seen as discriminatory, said Raffaello Pantucci, a terrorism
expert at the Royal United Services Institute for Defense and Security Studies
in London.

"The issues are not getting resolved, and in some ways are getting worse,"
Pantucci said. "People are left feeling they have no hope."

___

Associated Press writers Christopher Bodeen in Beijing and Aritz Parra and Andy
Wong in Urumqi contributed to this report.

LOAD-DATE: May 23, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDM


                   Copyright 2014 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              13 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                   MailOnline

                        May 23, 2014 Friday 7:59 AM GMT

'He was never the same after that night': How Bali bombing survivor Patrick
Byrne became the 89th victim of the terrorist attacks that killed his mates 12
years ago

BYLINE: TAYLOR AUERBACH

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 1038 words



     ·    Patrick Byrne, 41, found dead on Wednesday after 12 years of torment
     ·    The heroic Bali bombing survivor struggled emotionally since the
          attack
     ·    Remembered by friends as a joker and a party animal who hid his pain
     ·    He was never himself after walking into the Bali morgue back in 2002
     ·    He lost six of his closest mates in the bombings which killed 88
          Australians
     ·    His name will now be added to the official Coogee memorial to victims


Heroic Bali bombing survivor Patrick Byrne - who ran back into a the burning
Sari nightclub minutes after terrorists had unleashed hell - was found dead on
Wednesday.

As news of his death, which police described as not suspicious, spread among his
close network of friends at the Coogee Dolphins, he was remembered as a joker, a
party animal and a selfless mate who hid a world of pain.

Recognised with a bravery award in 2008, Pat's actions on the night of the
bombings saved countless lives. But it was the horror he faced in a makeshift
morgue in the days after the attack that would haunt him to his early grave.

The former Coogee Dolphins football club president, 41, did not slept for two
days after explosives tore through the Sari nightclub, killing 88 Australians
including six of his closest mates. His name will now sit alongside theirs at an
official memorial to the victims in Coogee.

Pat had popped out of the club to buy a packet of cigarettes, a chance decision
that saved his life.

But he was about to engage in a harrowing and heroic rescue mission that would
change him forever.

Following the blasts, Pat ran in and out of the nightclub repeatedly - carrying
severely injured tourists to safety and putting his own life on the line.

Pat's bravery award from the GG

Patrick Richard Byrne

'Late on the night of 12 October 2002, Mr Byrne went to the aid of victims
following two explosions in the vicinity ofthe Sari Club, Denpasar, Bali...

'Early in the evening Mr Byrne and friends attended dinner before visiting the
Sari Club to meet up with other football mates.

'After leaving the club to walk back to his hotel, Mr Byrne heard a huge
explosion. He saw a large fireball, and theglass and fittings of nearby shops
began to shatter around him.

'Mr Byrne raced back to the club which was engulfed in flames.

'Confronted by the devastation and confusion, Mr Byrne anxiously searched the
site for his friends.

'He remained at the scene helping to assist injured victims and searching for
bodies.

'He later attended a nearby temporary casualty station to look for his team
mates and remained there for several hours helping distressed victims.

'For his actions, Mr Byrne is commended for brave conduct.'

'Everyone who went into the Sari club that night was a hero, it was a warzone,
and Pat did it over and over again,' close friend and fellow survivor Erik de
Haart told MailOnline.

'There were people staggering in and out, there was dust everywhere and body
bits all over the floor but Patty was charged. He was on a mission. We went over
as a team and we wanted to come back as a team.'

Less than 48 hours after the act of terrorism that killed 202 people, Pat, Dean
and Daniel 'Shorty' Mortenson, another Coogee Dolphins teammate, faced the
gut-wrenching task of identifying their friends at a makeshift morgue.

'There was four inches of bloody water on the floor of the triage room,' Mr de
Haart said.

'A pile of rags, sheets hanging off beds and shards of skin everywhere...we went
through that and eventually came to what was the morgue.

'There was a collection of arms and legs. Patty walked in and he saw that and
fell to pieces. It shocked him so hard, he couldn't handle it...we took him back
to the hotel and he's never been the same since.'

The horror of what he went through 12 years ago would haunt him for the rest of
his tortured days. Pat, or 'Patty' as he was known to his mates, was found dead
on Wednesday at his parents' Central Coast home. No note has yet been found.

'He had the worst case of survivor's guilt of all of us,' said Mr de Haart.

'It destroyed a vital part of him, a little bit of him died that day.'

Despite the anguish, Byrne continued to assist the Coogee Dolphins and his
community both financially and with his time.

He was a lover of rugby league and a talented player. He once won an U21
competition with the Eastern Suburbs Roosters.

Friends remember two sides of Patty in the years since that cowardly act of
murder by Islamist extremists.

'He had some very, very dark days. He hit the bottle hard and he overindulged in
drugs from time to time.

'There was Patty the party animal who liked to laugh and then there was a darker
side. We really couldn't pass on our nightmares to those back at home.'

Pat's marriage broke down a number of years ago and he leaves behind two boys,
both aged under nine. When he died he was living with his parents in Bateau Bay.

'What he did over in Bali was heroic,' said best friend and former flat mate
Dean Johnson.

'His mates meant everything to him. He was very outgoing, the life of the party
and if people weren't enjoying themselves he would go out of his way to crack a
joke at your expense or his.'

Tonight the Coogee Dolphins will be reuniting at a pub in the eastern suburbs to
remember a selfless survivor of the Bali bombings who would eventually become a
victim.

There are already plans in place at the club to ensure he is never forgotten.

'He'd be loving the fact that we're all getting together for a few beers to
remember how much he annoyed us,' said Mr Johnson.

Pat, who became a successful businessman back in Australia, was given a bravery
award in 2008 for his actions.

In the 12 years since his mates Clint Thompson, 29, Adam Howard, 27, Dave
Mavroudis, 28, Shane Foley, 34, Gerard Yeo, 20 and Joshua Iliffe, 28 were
murdered he fought a daily struggle.

As is true of all heroes, the one life he couldn't save was his own.

A public funeral will be held for Pat next Wedneday at 11am at St Mary's Church
in North Sydney.

If you or someone you know needs help, call Lifeline on 13 11 14.

LOAD-DATE: May 23, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDM


                   Copyright 2014 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              14 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                   MailOnline

                        May 23, 2014 Friday 6:03 AM GMT

Survivors tell of terror after China market attack

BYLINE: ASSOCIATED PRESS

SECTION: AP

LENGTH: 882 words


URUMQI, China (AP) - Mrs. Zhang had just bought her morning fruit and vegetables
when an explosive tossed from one of two speeding SUVs slammed her to the
ground.

Scrambling to her feet, and minus her shoes and hat, she fled while the two
vehicles plowed through a crowd of shoppers before setting off more fiery blasts
in the latest - and bloodiest - incident of violence in China's far northwestern
Xinjiang region in recent months. The attack killed 31 mostly elderly people and
wounded more than 90.

"The SUVs were mowing down people and goods alike," Mrs. Zhang, 71, said Friday
at a hospital where she was being treated for crushed toes and other injuries.

"It is not safe here anymore. We don't have a sense of security," she said.

A day after the attack in Xinjiang's capital of Urumqi, survivors told of their
terror during the attack and said they no longer feel insulated from a
long-simmering insurgency against Chinese rule, which has struck their city
twice in recent weeks.

While the perpetrators haven't been named, Chinese authorities have blamed
recent attacks on radical separatists from the country's Muslim Uighur minority.

Xinjiang is home to the native Turkic-speaking Uighurs (pronounced WEE'-gurs)
but has seen large inflows from China's ethnic Han majority in recent decades.
Uighur activists contend that restrictive and discriminatory policies favoring
the Chinese migrants are fueling the bloodshed. The knowledge that Muslims
elsewhere are rising up against their governments also seems to be contributing
to the increased militancy.

Zhang, who didn't want to give her full name out of fear of her safety, had four
of her toes crushed but didn't know whether that was from a bomb or the ensuing
stampede Thursday. She spoke to The Associated Press in a four-bed ward guarded
by armed police at Urumqi's Traditional Chinese Medicine Hospital. Soon after,
doctors and nurses drove reporters out.

Another woman in the ward, Mrs. Li, had been manning a public scale when she was
knocked off her feet by one of the speeding SUVs and broke her hip. "It was so
fast it was like a plane flying," said Li, 70.

Li spoke with defiance of the separatists seeking to overthrow Chinese rule in
Xinjiang: "We are not going to give in. This is part of China."

Yet her daughter made clear that the danger of violence was now a much greater
factor in the daily lives of Xinjiang's Chinese population.

"The violence used to be distant, but now I have my mother lying in the bed
suffering. The danger is right here with us and we dare not go out," said the
woman, who also declined to give her name.

Despite the previous day's mayhem, Urumqi was relatively calm Friday, with only
a heightened security presence around the scene of the attack. The market itself
was closed and dozens of police armed with automatic rifles and wearing body
armor guarded access points.

The death toll was the highest for violence in Xinjiang since days-long riots in
Urumqi in 2009 between Uighurs and Hans left almost 200 people dead, according
to an official count. Thursday's attack also was the bloodiest single act of
violence in Xinjiang in recent history.

Recent attacks show an audaciousness and deliberateness that wasn't present
before. They are also increasingly going after civilians rather than police and
government targets.

Urumqi was the scene of a bomb attack at a train station late last month that
killed three people, including two attackers, and injured 79. Security in the
city has been significantly tightened since that attack, which took place as
Chinese President Xi Jinping was visiting the region.

In response to Thursday's attack, Xi pledged to "severely punish terrorists and
spare no efforts in maintaining stability," Xinhua reported.

Public Security Minister Guo Shengkun, China's top police official, was
dispatched to Urumqi as the head of a team to investigate the incident.

At a Thursday briefing in Beijing, Foreign Ministry spokesman Hong Lei said the
incident "lays bare again the anti-human, anti-social and anti-civilization
nature of the violent terrorists and deserves the condemnation of the world
community and the Chinese people."

In Washington, the White House also put out a news release denouncing this
"despicable and outrageous act of violence against innocent civilians" and
noting that "the United States resolutely opposes all forms of terrorism."

Prior to last month's train station attack, Urumqi had been relatively quiet
since the 2009 ethnic riots amid a smothering police presence. The sprawling
metropolis' population of more than 3 million people is about three-fourths Han
Chinese.

In March, 29 people were slashed and stabbed to death at a train station in the
southern city of Yunnan. The attack was blamed on Uighur extremists bent on
waging jihad.

The increasing frequency of attacks shows growing frustration among Uighurs over
government policies seen as discriminatory, said Raffaello Pantucci, a terrorism
expert at the Royal United Services Institute for Defense and Security Studies
in London.

"The issues are not getting resolved, and in some ways are getting worse,"
Pantucci said. "People are left feeling they have no hope."

___

Associated Press writers Christopher Bodeen in Beijing and Aritz Parra and Andy
Wong in Urumqi contributed to this report.

LOAD-DATE: May 23, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDM


                   Copyright 2014 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              15 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                   MailOnline

                        May 23, 2014 Friday 4:12 AM GMT

The 89th Australian victim of the Bali bombings: The tragic story of Patrick
Byrne, who died this week 12 years after losing six teammates in the nightclub
terror attack, and how he struggled to come to terms with his demons

BYLINE: TAYLOR AUERBACH

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 731 words



     ·    Patrick Byrne, 41, found dead on Wednesday after 12 years of torment
     ·    The heroic Bali bombing survivor struggled emotionally since the
          attack
     ·    Remembered by friends as a joker and a party animal who hid his pain
     ·    He was never himself after walking into the Bali morgue back in 2002
     ·    He lost six of his closest mates in the bombings which killed 88
          Australians


Heroic Bali bombing survivor Patrick Byrne died on Wednesday from a suspected
overdose of prescription medication and alcohol.

As news of his death spread among his close network of friends at the Coogee
Dolphins, he was remembered as a joker, a party animal and a selfless mate who
hid a world of pain.

Recognised with a bravery award in 2008, Byrne's actions on the night of the
bombings saved countless lives. But it was the horror he faced in a makeshift
morgue in the days after the attack that would haunt him to his early grave.

The former Coogee Dolphins President had not slept for two days since explosives
tore through the Sari nightclub, killing 88 Australians including six of his
closest mates.

Pat had popped out of the club to buy a packet of cigarettes, a chance decision
that saved his life.

But he was about to engage in a harrowing and heroic rescue mission that would
change him forever.

Following the blasts, Pat ran in and out of the nightclub repeatedly - carrying
severely injured tourists to safety and putting his own life on the line.

'Everyone who went into the Sari club that night was a hero, it was a warzone,
and Pat did it over and over again,' close friend and fellow survivor Erik de
Haart told MailOnline.

'There were people staggering in and out, there was dust everywhere and body
bits all over the floor but Patty was charged. He was on a mission. We went over
as a team and we wanted to come back as a team.'

Less than 48 hours after the callous act of terrorism that killed 202 people,
Patty, Dean and Daniel 'Shorty' Mortenson, another Coogee Dolphins teammate,
faced the gut-wrenching task of identifying their friends at a makeshift morgue.

'There was four inches of bloody water on the floor of the triage room,' Mr de
Haart said.

'A pile of rags, sheets hanging off beds and shards of skin everywhere...we went
through that and eventually came to what was the morgue.

'There was a collection of arms and legs. Patty walked in and he saw that and
fell to pieces. It shocked him so hard, he couldn't handle it...we took him back
to the hotel and he's never been the same since.'

Patrick Byrne was found dead on Wednesday at his parents' Central Coast home. No
note has yet been found.

'He had the worst case of survivor's guilt of all of us,' said Mr de Haart.

'It destroyed a vital part of him, a little bit of him died that day.'

Friends remember two sides of Patty in the years since that cowardly act of
murder by Islamist extremists ripped out a chunk of his soul.

'He had some very, very dark days. He hit the bottle hard and he overindulged in
drugs from time to time.

'There was Patty the party animal who liked to laugh and then there was a darker
side. We really couldn't pass on our nightmares to those back at home.'

Patty's marriage broke down a number of years ago and he leaves behind two boys
both aged under nine.

'What he did over in Bali was heroic,' said best friend and former flat mate
Dean Johnson.

'His mates meant everything to him. He was very outgoing, the life of the party
and if people weren't enjoying themselves he would go out of his way to crack a
joke at your expense or his.'

Tonight the Coogee Dolphins will be reuniting at a pub in the eastern suburbs to
remember a selfless survivor of the Bali bombings who would eventually become a
victim.

There are already plans in place at the club to ensure he is never forgotten.

'He'd be loving the fact that we're all getting together for a few beers to
remember how much he annoyed us,' said Johnson.

Patrick, who became a successful businessman back in Australia, was given a
bravery award by the Governor-General in 2008 for his actions.

In the 12 years since his mates Clint Thompson, 29, Adam Howard, 27, Dave
Mavroudis, 28, Shane Foley, 34, Gerard Yeo, 20 and Joshua Iliffe, 28 were
murdered he fought a daily struggle.

As is true of all heroes, the one life he couldn't save was his own.

Patrick Byrne was 41.

If you or someone you know needs help, call Lifeline on 13 11 14.

LOAD-DATE: May 23, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDM


                   Copyright 2014 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              16 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                   MailOnline

                        May 23, 2014 Friday 3:56 AM GMT

The 89th Australian victim of the Bali bombings: The tragic story of Patrick
Byrne, who died this week 12 years after losing six teammates in the nightclub
terror attack, and how he struggled to comes to terms with his demons

BYLINE: TAYLOR AUERBACH

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 669 words



     ·    Patrick Byrne found dead on Wednesday after 12 years of torment
     ·    The heroic Bali bombing survivor struggled emotionally since the
          attack
     ·    Remembered by friends as a joker and a party animal who hid his pain
     ·    He was never himself after walking into the Bali morgue back in 2002
     ·    He lost six of his closest mates in the bombings which killed 88
          Australians


A piece of Patrick Byrne died one Sunday morning in October 2002.

The former Coogee Dolphins President - a survivor of the Bali nightclub bombings
- had not slept for two days since explosives tore through the Sari nightclub,
killing 88 Australians including six of his closest mates.

Pat had popped out of the club to buy a packet of cigarettes, a chance decision
that saved his life.

But he was about to engage in a harrowing and heroic rescue mission that would
change him forever.

Following the blasts, Pat ran in and out of the nightclub repeatedly - carrying
severely injured tourists to safety and putting his own life on the line.

'Everyone who went into the Sari club that night was a hero, it was a warzone,
and Pat did it over and over again,' close friend and fellow survivor Erik de
Haart told MailOnline.

'There were people staggering in and out, there was dust everywhere and body
bits all over the floor but Patty was charged. He was on a mission. We went over
as a team and we wanted to come back as a team.'

Less than 48 hours after the callous act of terrorism that killed 202 people,
Patty, Dean and Daniel 'Shorty' Mortenson, another Coogee Dolphins teammate,
faced the gut-wrenching task of identifying their friends at a makeshift morgue.

'There was four inches of bloody water on the floor of the triage room,' Mr de
Haart said.

'A pile of rags, sheets hanging off beds and shards of skin everywhere...we went
through that and eventually came to what was the morgue.

'There was a collection of arms and legs. Patty walked in and he saw that and
fell to pieces. It shocked him so hard, he couldn't handle it...we took him back
to the hotel and he's never been the same since.'

Patrick Byrne was found dead on Wednesday at his parents' Central Coast home. He
died of an overdose of prescription medication and alcohol. He didn't leave a
note.

'He had the worst case of survivor's guilt of all of us,' said Mr de Haart.

'It destroyed a vital part of him, a little bit of him died that day.'

Friends remember two sides of Patty in the years since that cowardly act of
murder by Islamist extremists ripped out a chunk of his soul.

'He had some very, very dark days. He hit the bottle hard and he overindulged in
drugs from time to time.

'There was Patty the party animal who liked to laugh and then there was a darker
side. We really couldn't pass on our nightmares to those back at home.'

Patty's marriage broke down a number of years ago and he leaves behind two boys
both aged under nine.

'What he did over in Bali was heroic,' said best friend and former flat mate
Dean Johnson.

'His mates meant everything to him. He was very outgoing, the life of the party
and if people weren't enjoying themselves he would go out of his way to crack a
joke at your expense or his.'

Tonight the Coogee Dolphins will be reuniting at a pub in the eastern suburbs to
remember a selfless survivor of the Bali bombings who would eventually become a
victim.

There are already plans in place at the club to ensure he is never forgotten.

'He'd be loving the fact that we're all getting together for a few beers to
remember how much he annoyed us,' said Johnson.

Patrick, who became a successful businessman back in Australia, was given a
bravery award by the Governor-General in 2008 for his actions.

In the 12 years since his mates Clint Thompson, 29, Adam Howard, 27, Dave
Mavroudis, 28, Shane Foley, 34, Gerard Yeo, 20 and Joshua Iliffe, 28 were
murdered he fought a daily struggle.

As is true of all heroes, the one life he couldn't save was his own.

Patrick Byrne was 42.

If you or someone you know needs help, call Lifeline on 13 11 14.

LOAD-DATE: May 23, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDM


                   Copyright 2014 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              17 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring South Asia - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                             May 24, 2014 Saturday

Sri Lanka condemns terror attack on Indian consulate in Afghanistan

LENGTH: 127 words


Text of unattributed report headlined "SL Condemns Attack on Indian Consulate"
published by Sri Lankan newspaper Daily Mirror website on 24 May

Sri Lanka yesterday 'unequivocally' condemned last morning's terrorist attack on
the Indian Consulate in Western Afghanistan's Herat Province.

"The targeting of a diplomatic mission is a matter of serious concern that
should draw the attention of the wider international community, and underscores
Sri Lanka's consistent call for concerted and decisive action to combat the
menace of terrorism in all its forms and manifestations. It is fortuitous that
there were no casualties among the Consulate staff," Sri Lanka External Affairs
Ministry said in a statement.

Source: Daily Mirror website, Colombo, in English 24 May 14

LOAD-DATE: May 24, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2014 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              18 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                               Daily Star Online

                       May 24, 2014 Saturday 7:22 PM GMT

TERROR ATTACK: Gunman kills FOUR in anti-Jewish rampage at tourist hotspot

BYLINE: Peter Allen

LENGTH: 391 words


FOUR people were brutally murdered in the "worst anti-Jewish attack in Brussels
since the Second World War" today after a gunman opened fire at a tourist hub in
the Belgium capital.

Brussels mayor Yvan Mayeur

A gunman arrived at the Jewish Museum in Brussels just before 4pm this
afternoon, and carried out what was described as a "ruthless attack" as he began
shooting.

Witnesses said he carried a rucksack and "looked determined" before pulling out
his weapon from the bag.

Three men and a woman were killed in the shooting, and around a dozen other
visitors to the museum were caught up in the carnage, suffering minor injuries
and severe shock.

After the slaughter, the attacker jumped into an Audi and fled, but a
quick-thinking witness managed to write down the car's number plate.

The police were alerted, who caught the suspected gunman soon afterwards.

Confirming an "undoubted terrorist attack", Brussels mayor Yvan Mayeur said:
"It's clearly extremely serious", and "it's not a coincidence that the target
was a Jewish museum."

Belgium's Deputy Prime Minister Didier Reynders was in earshot when he said he
"heard bursts of gunfire, rushed here and saw the bodies on the ground".

A police spokesman said: "Bodies were left lying on the ground inside and
outside the building.

"There was blood everywhere and people were screaming.

He added: "This was a ruthless attack."

Anti-Semitic attacks have become all too common in Europe over recent years,
with Islamic radicals often behind them.

Maurice Sosnowski, President of the Coordination Centre of Jewish organisations
in Belgium, said that this one, if confirmed, would be "the worst anti-Jewish
attack in Brussels since the Second World War."

The Brussels museum highlights the suffering of Jews who were murdered, tortured
and imprisoned during the Nazi Holocaust.

In 2012 a French-Algerian anti-Semitic fanatic called Mohamed Merah gunned down
seven people in and around the south western city of Toulouse before being
killed in a shootout with police.

Among the victims of the 23-year-old Al-Qaeda supporter were three Jewish
children and a rabbi who were murdered in front of their schools.

In the face of such savagery, security groups have launched numerous clamp-downs
on extremists, including in cities like Belgium, which has a large Muslim
population.

LOAD-DATE: May 25, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDS


              Copyright 2014 Northern and Shell Media Publications
                              All Rights Reserved

                              19 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                 Express Online

                       May 24, 2014 Saturday 7:28 PM GMT

'Terror attack' kills four at Jewish museum

BYLINE: Peter Allen

LENGTH: 453 words


A SUSPECTED terrorist gunman was in custody tonight after murdering four people
at the Jewish Museum in Brussels

SHOOTING: Police block off the street near the scene[EPA/AP]

In what had all the hallmarks of a planned anti-Semitic attack, he had arrived
in the landmark tourist site just before 4pm in his Audi car.

Witnesses said he carried a rucksack and 'looked determined' before pulling out
his weapon from the bag. 'Bodies were left lying on the ground inside and
outside the building,' said a local police spokesman.

'There was blood everywhere and people were screaming.'

Around a dozen other visitors to the museum were caught up in the carnage,
suffering minor injuries and severe shock.

SEARCH: Forensics teams scour the area for evidence after the shooting [AP]

Deputy Prime Minister Didier Reynders was in earshot when he said he 'heard
bursts of gunfire, rushed here and saw the bodies on the ground'.

After the slaughter, the attacker jumped back into the Audi and fled.

A witness managed to write down its number plate and alerted police, who caught
the suspected gunman soon afterwards.

Confirming an 'undoubted terrorist attack', Brussels mayor Yvan Mayeur said
three men and a woman were hit, saying: 'It's clearly extremely serious', and
'it's not a coincidence that the target was a Jewish museum.'

CORDON: Police block off the streets as they investigate [REUTERS]

Alain Sobotik, another eyewitness, said he saw two bodies in the lobby of the
museum.

He told France's AFP news agency: 'One was a young woman with her head covered
in blood,' adding: 'She was holding a leaflet and looked like a tourist.' Prime
Minister Elio Di Rupo expressed his condolences and support for the victims'
families.

Anti-Semitic attacks have become all too common in Europe over recent years,
with Islamic radicals often behind them.

Maurice Sosnowski, President of the Coordination Centre of Jewish organisations
in Belgium, said that this one, if confirmed, would be 'the worst anti-Jewish
attacks since the Second World War.'

SHOCK: Interior Minister Joelle Milquet addresses the media near the site [AP]

The Brussels museum highlights the suffering of Jews who were murdered, tortured
and imprisoned during the Nazi Holocaust.

In 2012 a French-Algerian anti-Semitic fanatic called Mohamed Merah gunned down
seven people in and around the south western French city of Toulouse before
being killed in a shootout with police.

Among the victims of the 23-year-old Al-Qaeda supporter were three Jewish
children and a rabbi who were murdered infront of their schools.

In the face of such savagery, security groups have launched numerous clamp-downs
on extremists, including in cities in Belgium, which has a large Muslim
population.

LOAD-DATE: May 25, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDE


              Copyright 2014 Northern and Shell Media Publications
                              All Rights Reserved

                              20 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                   MailOnline

                       May 24, 2014 Saturday 11:12 PM GMT

Three dead and one fighting for life after 'anti-Semitic' terrorist attack at
the Jewish Museum in Brussels when a man with a backpack opened fire then fled

BYLINE: PETER ALLEN

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 510 words



     ·    Witnesses saw man run in from car park at 3.50pm, shoot and flee
     ·    Belgian ministers have branded the attack 'an act of anti-Semitism'
     ·    Deputy Prime Minister was in the vicinity, described the scene as
          'terrible'
     ·    Area around museum in central Brussels closed off, suspect arrested
     ·    A witness wrote down number plate of his Audi and alerted police


Three people were shot dead yesterday when a lone gunman opened fire at the
Jewish Museun in Brussels.

Another victim is fighting for life after the attack in just before 4pm.

In what Belgian authorities described as an apparently anti-Semitic attack, the
man arrived by car at the city-centre tourist attraction.

Witnesses said he was carrying a rucksack and 'looked determined' before he
pulled out a gun and opened fire at visitors.

Scroll down for video

A police spokesman said: 'Bodies were left lying on the ground inside and
outside the building. There was  blood everywhere and people were screaming.'

The victims were reported to be two women and one man. Another man is seriously
wounded.

A suspect was arrested and was being questioned last night by security
officials.

The attacker was seen jumping into an Audi after the shootings by a witness who
made a note of the number plate. The car was stopped by police shortly
afterwards.

Belgian Deputy Prime Minister Didier Reynders, who was nearby at the time and
heard the gunfire, was among the first to reach the scene.

He said he was 'shocked' by the killings, but added: 'There were a lot of
witnesses and the investigation is moving fast.'

Confirming that it was an 'undoubted terrorist attack', Brussels Mayor Yvan
Mayeur said: 'It's not a coincidence the target was a Jewish museum.'

Eyewitness Alain Sobotik revealed he saw two bodies in the lobby of the museum.

'One was a young woman with her head covered in blood. She was holding a leaflet
and looked like a tourist,' he added.

Around a dozen other visitors to the museum were caught up in the carnage,
suffering minor injuries and severe shock.

Prime Minister Elio Di Rupo expressed his condolences and support for the
victims' families.

Anti-Semitic attacks have become all too common in Europe over recent years,
with Islamic radicals often behind them.

Maurice Sosnowski, President of the Coordination Centre of Jewish organisations
in Belgium, said that this one, if confirmed, would be 'the worst anti-Jewish
attack in Brussels since the Second World War.'

The Brussels museum highlights the suffering of Jews who were murdered, tortured
and imprisoned during the Nazi Holocaust.

In 2012 a French-Algerian anti-Semitic fanatic called Mohamed Merah gunned down
seven people in and around the south western city of Toulouse before being
killed in a shootout with police.

Among the victims of the 23-year-old Al-Qaeda supporter were three Jewish
children and a rabbi who were murdered infront of their schools.

In the face of such savagery, security groups have launched numerous clamp-downs
on extremists, including in cities like Belgium, which has a large Muslim
population.

LOAD-DATE: May 24, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDM


                   Copyright 2014 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              21 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                   MailOnline

                       May 24, 2014 Saturday 7:47 PM GMT

Four people shot dead in 'anti-Semitic' terrorist attack at the Jewish Museum in
Brussels after a man with a backpack opened fire then fled

BYLINE: PETER ALLEN

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 501 words



     ·    Witnesses saw man run in from car park at 3.50pm, shoot and flee
     ·    Belgian ministers have branded the attack 'an act of anti-Semitism'
     ·    Deputy Prime Minister was in the vicinity, described the scene as
          'terrible'
     ·    Area around museum in central Brussels closed off, suspect in custody
     ·    A witness wrote down number plate of his Audi and alerted police


A suspected terrorist gunman was in custody tonight after murdering four people
at the Jewish Museum in Brussels.

In what had all the hallmarks of a planned anti-Semitic attack, he had arrived
in the landmark tourist site just before 4pm in his Audi car.

Witnesses said he carried a rucksack and 'looked determined' before pulling out
his weapon from the bag.

Scroll down for video

'Bodies were left lying on the ground inside and outside the building,' said a
local police spokesman. 'There was blood everywhere and people were screaming.

'Two women were killed, along with a man, and a third victim was in a critical
condition in hospital before dying of their injuries. This was a ruthless
attack.'

Around a dozen other visitors to the museum were caught up in the carnage,
suffering minor injuries and severe shock.

Deputy Prime Minister Didier Reynders was in earshot when he said he 'heard
bursts of gunfire, rushed here and saw the bodies on the ground'.

After the slaughter, the attacker jumped back into the Audi and fled. A witness
managed to write down its number plate and alerted police, who caught the
suspected gunman soon afterwards.

Confirming an 'undoubted terrorist attack', Brussels mayor Yvan Mayeur said
three men and a woman were hit, saying: 'It's clearly extremely serious', and
'it's not a coincidence that the target was a Jewish museum.'

Alain Sobotik, another eyewitness, said he saw two bodies in the lobby of the
museum.

He told France's AFP news agency: 'One was a young woman with her head covered
in blood,' adding: 'She was holding a leaflet and looked like a tourist.'

Prime Minister Elio Di Rupo expressed his condolences and support for the
victims' families.

Anti-Semitic attacks have become all too common in Europe over recent years,
with Islamic radicals often behind them.

Maurice Sosnowski, President of the Coordination Centre of Jewish organisations
in Belgium, said that this one, if confirmed, would be 'the worst anti-Jewish
attack in Brussels since the Second World War.'

The Brussels museum highlights the suffering of Jews who were murdered, tortured
and imprisoned during the Nazi Holocaust.

In 2012 a French-Algerian anti-Semitic fanatic called Mohamed Merah gunned down
seven people in and around the south western city of Toulouse before being
killed in a shootout with police.

Among the victims of the 23-year-old Al-Qaeda supporter were three Jewish
children and a rabbi who were murdered infront of their schools.

In the face of such savagery, security groups have launched numerous clamp-downs
on extremists, including in cities like Belgium, which has a large Muslim
population.

LOAD-DATE: May 24, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDM


                   Copyright 2014 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              22 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                   MailOnline

                       May 24, 2014 Saturday 3:39 AM GMT

Survivors tell of terror after China market attack

BYLINE: ASSOCIATED PRESS

SECTION: AP

LENGTH: 880 words


URUMQI, China (AP) - The assailants tossed explosives from two SUVs as they sped
through a packed vegetable market, mowing through customers and wares. Mrs. Li
was working the public scale to weigh produce when one of the cars knocked her
off her feet.

"It was so fast, it was like a plane flying," Li, 70, said Friday at a hospital
where she was being treated for a broken hip.

The assailants set off more fiery blasts, and all together 43 people were killed
and more than 90 wounded in Thursday's attack, the latest - and bloodiest -
violence in China's far northwestern Xinjiang region in recent months.

A day after the attack in Xinjiang's capital of Urumqi, survivors told of their
terror and said they no longer feel insulated from a long-simmering insurgency
against Chinese rule, which has struck their city twice in recent weeks.

Mrs. Li's daughter said the danger of violence was now a much greater factor in
the daily lives of Xinjiang's ethnic Chinese population.

"The violence used to be distant, but now I have my mother lying in the bed
suffering. The danger is right here with us and we dare not go out," said the
daughter, who declined to give her name.

Local authorities said police have identified five suspects - four people who
died in the attack and another who was caught Thursday - the official Xinhua
News Agency reported. It said all five had "long been influenced by the
religious extremism." Xinhua said a one-year campaign against "terrorist
violence" with Xinjiang "as the major battlefield" started Friday. It said it
would make full use of political and legal forces, the army and armed police and
focus on terrorists, religious extremist groups, gun and explosive manufacturing
dens and terrorist training camps.

Chinese authorities have blamed most recent attacks on radical separatists from
the country's Muslim Uighur minority.

Xinjiang is home to the native Turkic-speaking Uighurs (pronounced WEE'-gurs)
but has seen large inflows from China's ethnic Han majority in recent decades.
Uighur activists contend that restrictive and discriminatory policies favoring
the Chinese migrants are fueling the bloodshed. The knowledge that Muslims
elsewhere are rising up against their governments also seems to be contributing
to the increased militancy.

Another woman in the hospital ward, Mrs. Zhang, had just bought her morning
fruit and vegetables when an explosive tossed from one of the SUVs slammed her
to the ground.

"The SUVs were mowing down people and goods alike," said Mrs. Zhang, 71. "It is
not safe here anymore. We don't have a sense of security," she said.

Urumqi was relatively calm Friday, with heightened security around the scene of
the attack. The market itself was closed and dozens of police armed with
automatic rifles and wearing body armor guarded access points.

Police banned parking within 100 meters (yards) of schools in Urumqi and said
drivers can stop only briefly outside hospitals and bus and train stations.

The violence was the deadliest in Xinjiang since riots in Urumqi in 2009 between
Uighurs and Hans left almost 200 people dead, according to an official death
toll. Thursday's attack also was the bloodiest single act of violence in
Xinjiang in recent history.

Recent attacks show an audaciousness and deliberateness that wasn't present
before. Attackers increasingly target civilians rather than police and
government targets.

A bomb attack at an Urumqi train station as President Xi Jinping was visiting
the region last month killed three people, including two attackers, and injured
79. Security has been tightened since then.

In response to Thursday's attack, Xi pledged to "severely punish terrorists and
spare no efforts in maintaining stability," Xinhua reported.

China's top police official, Public Security Minister Guo Shengkun, was
dispatched to Urumqi as the head of a team to investigate the attack.

At a Thursday briefing in Beijing, Foreign Ministry spokesman Hong Lei said the
violence "lays bare again the anti-human, anti-social and anti-civilization
nature of the violent terrorists and deserves the condemnation of the world
community and the Chinese people."

In Washington, the White House put out a news release denouncing this
"despicable and outrageous act of violence against innocent civilians" and
noting that "the United States resolutely opposes all forms of terrorism."

Prior to last month's train station attack, Urumqi had been relatively quiet
since the 2009 ethnic riots amid a smothering police presence. The sprawling
metropolis' population of more than 3 million people is about three-fourths Han
Chinese.

In March, 29 people were slashed and stabbed to death at a train station in the
southern city of Yunnan. The attack was blamed on Uighur extremists bent on
waging jihad, or holy war.

The increasing frequency of attacks shows growing frustration among Uighurs over
government policies seen as discriminatory, said Raffaello Pantucci, a terrorism
expert at the Royal United Services Institute for Defense and Security Studies
in London.

"The issues are not getting resolved, and in some ways are getting worse,"
Pantucci said. "People are left feeling they have no hope."

___

Associated Press writers Christopher Bodeen in Beijing and Aritz Parra and Andy
Wong in Urumqi contributed to this report.

LOAD-DATE: May 24, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDM


                   Copyright 2014 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              23 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring Middle East - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                              May 25, 2014 Sunday

Egypt denounces "terrorist" attack in Xinjiang - agency

LENGTH: 75 words


Text of report by Egyptian state-run news agency MENA

Cairo, 25 May: Egypt strongly denounced the terrorist attack in China's
north-western region of Xinjiang on Thursday [22 May] that left 31 people dead.

A statement released by the Foreign Ministry on Sunday expressed Egypt's
sympathy with the families of the victims and solidarity with the Chinese people
and government in facing terrorism.

Source: MENA news agency, Cairo, in English 0824gmt 25 May 14

LOAD-DATE: May 25, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2014 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              24 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                          China Daily European Edition

                              May 25, 2014 Sunday

Terror attack's death toll climbs to 43

BYLINE: Cui Jia in Urumqi

SECTION: SOCIETY

LENGTH: 473 words


The death toll of the May 22 terrorist attack in Urumqi has risen to 43,
including four attackers, local police said on Saturday.

The central government launched on Friday a campaign to combat terrorism and
violence in Xinjiang until June 2015, involving "extremely tough measures and
extraordinary methods".

The Xinjiang Uygur autonomous region's government originally said on Thursday
that 31 innocent people had been killed in the attack on a market in Xinjiang's
capital.

DNA testing has identified the four attackers who drove two vehicles without
license plates through roadside fences to indiscriminately run over shoppers at
the open-air market on Gongyuanbei Street at 7:50 am.

Witnesses said the vehicles were driven at very high speeds as explosives were
thrown and detonated among the crowd of about 5,000. Both vehicles then
exploded, killing the four people inside.

Another suspect who allegedly helped plot the attack was caught later on
Thursday in Xinjiang's Bayingolin Mongolian autonomous prefecture.

All five members of the terrorist cell formed at the end of 2013 are from Pishan
county in southern Xinjiang's Hotan prefecture.

Police said the attacters - Nurahmat Ablipiz, Memet Memtimin, Raghimjan Memet,
Memtimin Mahmat and Ablet Abdukadir - had long been influenced by religious
extremism.

They took part in illegal religious activities, and watched and listened to
violent terrorist video and audio materials.

Authorities have determined they purchased vehicles and materials for
explosives, which they assembled, and then chose their target. Police are still
investigating the attack.

At least 94 people were injured in the attack, most of whom were older than 50.

It is the most violent incident in the region since riots erupted in Urumqi on
July 5, 2009, killing 197 people and injuring more than 1,700.

The regional government said it will combine the forces of legal authorities,
the People's Liberation Army and armed police to bust terrorist cells and
extremist religious groups. The joint force will also target workshops making
guns and explosives as well as terrorist training camps.

The regional public security bureau, the high people's court and the people's
procuratorate jointly issued a notice on Saturday, saying Xinjiang's legal
bodies will harshly punish those involved in terrorist activities, including
sponsoring terrorism, passing on such techniques as making explosives and
illegally crossing the national border.

Security measures have been stepped up in Urumqi. All main shopping areas are
guarded by armed police.

"There are obviously fewer people on the streets today," taxi driver Wang
Zhiyong said, while passing a shopping mall.

"It will take a while for the city to recover this time because it's still
pretty scary to think that they (the terrorists) have begun to target people
like you and me."

LOAD-DATE: May 25, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2014 China Daily Information Co
                              All Rights Reserved

                              25 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                 Express Online

                        May 25, 2014 Sunday 7:08 PM GMT

Police search for gunman after 'terror attack' which kills four at Jewish museum

BYLINE: Peter Allen

LENGTH: 688 words


A SUSPECTED anti-Semitic terrorist is still on the loose this evening after
being caught on CCTV following a quadruple murder at the Jewish Museum in
Brussels.

SHOOTING: Police are still hunting for the suspect[EPA]

Two Israeli tourists were among those gunned down in the atrocity, which is
being linked with similar crimes carried out by Al-Qaeda linked Islamic
radicals.

A couple in their 50s from Tel Aviv died instantly after being hit, along with a
museum volunteer named only as Dominique.

Alexandre Strens, another member of staff who was in his early 20s, was rushed
to a Brussels hospital after he was shot in the head.

He tragically died from his injuries today.One man has been arrested and remains
in custody but he is not thought to have a direct link with the killings.

Officers are now searching for a lone gunman who walked into the museum at
around 4pm yesterday.

Flowers and candles were left as a tribute to the dead [ AP/REUTERS]

Members of the Jewish community are shocked by the shooting [ AP]

He was seen taking a Kalashnikov shoulder rifle out of a black bag before
targeting staff and visitors inside the museum, firing bullets into their faces
and necks.

A local police spokesman said: "Bodies were left lying on the ground inside and
outside the building.

"There was blood everywhere and people were screaming.

"Around a dozen other visitors to the museum who were caught up in the carnage
suffered minor injuries and severe shock.Witness Alain Sobotik said he saw two
bodies in the lobby of the museum.

He told France's AFP news agency: "One was a young woman with her head covered
in blood."She was holding a leaflet and looked like a tourist."

SEARCH: Forensics teams scour the area for evidence after the shooting [AP]

CORDON: Police block off the streets as they investigate [REUTERS]

Witnesses described the attacker as young and carrying a backpack.

He is thought to have fled on foot, when his image was caught on camera.

A Brussels police spokesman said: "We are studying the film. Everything is being
done to find him."

Deputy prosecutor Ine Van Wymersch added: "We call on the whole population to
help identify this person."No-one has claimed responsibility for the killings.

A statement issued by the office of Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu
condemned the attack, saying: "This act of murder is the result of constant
incitement against Jews and their state.

"Anti-terror measures were immediately heightened as a precaution around Jewish
sites in Belgium.

Brussels mayor Yvan Mayeur said: "It's clearly extremely serious. It's not a
coincidence that the target was a Jewish museum."

SHOCK: Interior Minister Joelle Milquet addresses the media near the site [AP]

Anti-Semitic attacks have become all too common in Europe over recent years,
with Islamic radicals often behind them.

Maurice Sosnowski, President of the Coordination Centre of Jewish organisations
in Belgium, said that this could be "the worst anti-Jewish attack in Brussels
since the Second World War".

Belgium's Foreign Affairs minister Didier Reynders was in the area at the time
and heard the shots.

He said today: "I am shocked by the murders committed in the Jewish Museum, I
think of the victims I saw on site and of their families.He also made reference
to a French-Algerian anti-Semitic fanatic called Mohamed Merah.

brightcove.createExperiences;

He gunned down seven people in and around the south western French city of
Toulouse before being killed in a shootout with police in 2012.

Among the victims of the 23-year-old Al-Qaeda supporter were three Jewish
children and a rabbi who were murdered in front of their schools.

Mr Reynders said it would be "dangerous to jump to conclusions", but that
comparisons with the Merah attacks were inevitable.

Merah went on a killing spree lasting a few days after targeting French soldiers
who had fought against Muslims in Afghanistan.

Two Jewish men were also attacked as they left a synagogue in the Paris area
late last night.

The Brussels museum highlights the suffering of Jews who were murdered, tortured
and imprisoned during the Nazi Holocaust.

LOAD-DATE: May 26, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDE


              Copyright 2014 Northern and Shell Media Publications
                              All Rights Reserved

                              26 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                 Express Online

                        May 25, 2014 Sunday 4:11 PM GMT

Police search for gunman after 'terror attack' which kills four at Jewish museum

BYLINE: Peter Allen

LENGTH: 780 words


A SUSPECTED anti-Semitic terrorist is still on the loose today following the
murder of four people at the Jewish Museum in Brussels.

SHOOTING: Police block off the street near the scene[EPA/AP]

Two Israeli tourists in their 50s were among those gunned down in the atrocity,
which is being linked with similar crimes carried out by Al-Qaeda linked Islamic
radicals.

One man has been arrested, and remains in custody, but he is not thought to have
a direct link with the actual killings. Officers are searching for a gunman they
believe acted alone.An Audi car pulled up outside the musum just before 4pm and
a man got out and took a weapon from black bag.

He immediately targeted staff and visitors inside the museum, firing bullets
into their faces and necks. None of the victims have yet been named.

An official working for the Israeli Foreign Ministry today said: "A couple in
their fifties from Tel Aviv were among the victims. We trust that the Belgian
authorities, including the judicial authorities and the police, will be able to
shed light on this terrible crime."

One of the men responsible was seen running away, while the second is thought to
have got away in the car.

Its number plate was written down by a witness who alerted police, but the man
arrested is not thought to be the getaway driver.

He remains in custody but his legal status has been downgraded from 'suspect' to
'witness.'

CCTV footage is being studied by the police.

SEARCH: Forensics teams scour the area for evidence after the shooting [AP]

Belgian Foreign Minister Didier Reynders, who was in the vicinity, said the
scene "was terrible and left me shocked" as he saw the bodies of two of the
victims lying at the entrance of the museum, located in the swanky Sablon
neighborhood of Belgium's capital.He said today: "I am shocked by the murders
committed in the Jewish Museum, I think of the victims I saw on site and of
their families."

Witnesses said the gunman carried a rucksack and "looked determined" before
pulling out his weapon from the bag."Bodies were left lying on the ground inside
and outside the building," said a local police spokesman.

"There was blood everywhere and people were screaming."

Around a dozen other visitors to the museum were caught up in the carnage,
suffering minor injuries and severe shock.Prime Minister Elio Di Rupo expressed
support for the Jewish community, and said "everything has been mobilised that
can be mobilised" to bring the killer or killers to justice.

"All Belgians are united," he said.

CORDON: Police block off the streets as they investigate [REUTERS]

A statement issued by the office of Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu
condemned the attack and said, "This act of murder is the result of constant
incitement against Jews and their state."

Milquet said anti-terror measures had immediately been heightened as a
precaution. "We decided to apply to a maximum level of protection to Jewish
sites," she said.

Brussels mayor Yvan Mayeur said: "It's clearly extremely serious", and "it's not
a coincidence that the target was a Jewish museum."

In neighbouring France, President Francois Hollande condemned the "horrifying
killings with the greatest force." In a statement, he expressed France's
solidarity with Belgium and offered condolences to the families of the victims.

SHOCK: Interior Minister Joelle Milquet addresses the media near the site [AP]

Alain Sobotik, another eyewitness, said he saw two bodies in the lobby of the
museum.

He told France's AFP news agency: "One was a young woman with her head covered
in blood," adding: "She was holding a leaflet and looked like a
tourist."Anti-Semitic attacks have become all too common in Europe over recent
years, with Islamic radicals often behind them.

Maurice Sosnowski, President of the Coordination Centre of Jewish organisations
in Belgium, said that this one, if confirmed, would be "the worst anti-Jewish
attacks since the Second World War."

brightcove.createExperiences;The Brussels museum highlights the suffering of
Jews who were murdered, tortured and imprisoned during the Nazi Holocaust.

In 2012 a French-Algerian anti-Semitic fanatic called Mohamed Merah gunned down
seven people in and around the south western French city of Toulouse before
being killed in a shootout with police.

Among the victims of the 23-year-old Al-Qaeda supporter were three Jewish
children and a rabbi who were murdered in front of their schools.

In the face of such savagery, security groups have launched numerous clamp-downs
on extremists, including in cities in Belgium, which has a large Muslim
population.About half of Belgium's 42,000-strong Jewish community lives in
Brussels.

LOAD-DATE: May 26, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDE


              Copyright 2014 Northern and Shell Media Publications
                              All Rights Reserved

                              27 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                 Express Online

                        May 25, 2014 Sunday 10:33 AM GMT

Police search for two suspects after 'terror attack' which kills three at Jewish
museum

BYLINE: Peter Allen

LENGTH: 774 words


A SUSPECTED anti-Semitic terrorist and his accomplice are still on the loose
today following a triple murder at the Jewish Museum in Brussels.

SHOOTING: Police block off the street near the scene[EPA/AP]

Two Israeli tourists in their 50s were among those gunned down in the atrocity,
which is being linked with similar crimes carried out by Al-Qaeda linked Islamic
radicals.

One man has been arrested, and remains in custody, but he is not thought to have
a direct link with the actual killings.Two men were seen pulling up outside the
museum in an Audi car just before 4pm, before one took out a weapon from black
bag.

He immediately targeted staff and visitors inside the museum, firing bullets
into their faces and necks. None of the victims have yet been named.

An official working for the Israeli Foreign Ministry today said: "A couple in
their fifties from Tel Aviv were among the victims. We trust that the Belgian
authorities, including the judicial authorities and the police, will be able to
shed light on this terrible crime."

One of the men responsible was seen running away, while the second is thought to
have got away in the car.

Its number plate was written down by a witness who alerted police, but the man
arrested is not thought to be the getaway driver.

He remains in custody but his legal status has been downgraded from 'suspect' to
'witness.'

CCTV footage is being studied by the police.

SEARCH: Forensics teams scour the area for evidence after the shooting [AP]

Belgian Foreign Minister Didier Reynders, who was in the vicinity, said the
scene "was terrible and left me shocked" as he saw the bodies of two of the
victims lying at the entrance of the museum, located in the swanky Sablon
neighborhood of Belgium's capital.He said today: "I am shocked by the murders
committed in the Jewish Museum, I think of the victims I saw on site and of
their families."

Witnesses said the gunman carried a rucksack and "looked determined" before
pulling out his weapon from the bag."Bodies were left lying on the ground inside
and outside the building," said a local police spokesman.

"There was blood everywhere and people were screaming."

Around a dozen other visitors to the museum were caught up in the carnage,
suffering minor injuries and severe shock.Prime Minister Elio Di Rupo expressed
support for the Jewish community, and said "everything has been mobilised that
can be mobilised" to bring the killer or killers to justice.

"All Belgians are united," he said.

CORDON: Police block off the streets as they investigate [REUTERS]

A statement issued by the office of Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu
condemned the attack and said, "This act of murder is the result of constant
incitement against Jews and their state."

Milquet said anti-terror measures had immediately been heightened as a
precaution. "We decided to apply to a maximum level of protection to Jewish
sites," she said.

Brussels mayor Yvan Mayeur said: "It's clearly extremely serious", and "it's not
a coincidence that the target was a Jewish museum."

In neighbouring France, President Francois Hollande condemned the "horrifying
killings with the greatest force." In a statement, he expressed France's
solidarity with Belgium and offered condolences to the families of the victims.

SHOCK: Interior Minister Joelle Milquet addresses the media near the site [AP]

Alain Sobotik, another eyewitness, said he saw two bodies in the lobby of the
museum.

He told France's AFP news agency: "One was a young woman with her head covered
in blood," adding: "She was holding a leaflet and looked like a
tourist."Anti-Semitic attacks have become all too common in Europe over recent
years, with Islamic radicals often behind them.

Maurice Sosnowski, President of the Coordination Centre of Jewish organisations
in Belgium, said that this one, if confirmed, would be "the worst anti-Jewish
attacks since the Second World War."

brightcove.createExperiences;The Brussels museum highlights the suffering of
Jews who were murdered, tortured and imprisoned during the Nazi Holocaust.

In 2012 a French-Algerian anti-Semitic fanatic called Mohamed Merah gunned down
seven people in and around the south western French city of Toulouse before
being killed in a shootout with police.

Among the victims of the 23-year-old Al-Qaeda supporter were three Jewish
children and a rabbi who were murdered in front of their schools.

In the face of such savagery, security groups have launched numerous clamp-downs
on extremists, including in cities in Belgium, which has a large Muslim
population.About half of Belgium's 42,000-strong Jewish community lives in
Brussels.

LOAD-DATE: May 25, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDE


              Copyright 2014 Northern and Shell Media Publications
                              All Rights Reserved

                              28 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                 Express Online

                        May 25, 2014 Sunday 10:06 AM GMT

Police search for second suspect after 'terror attack' which kills three at
Jewish museum

BYLINE: Peter Allen

LENGTH: 726 words


POLICE are searching for a second suspect after three people were shot dead and
another left seriously injured at the Jewish Museum in Brussels yesterday.

SHOOTING: Police block off the street near the scene[EPA/AP]

One man has already been detained by police after the fatal shootings of a man
and a woman from Tel Aviv, both in their 50s, and another woman, at the tourist
attraction just before 4pm yesterday.

Belgian Foreign Minister Didier Reynders, who was in the vicinity, said the
scene "was terrible and left me shocked" as he saw the bodies of two of the
victims lying at the entrance of the museum, located in the swanky Sablon
neighborhood of Belgium's capital.

In what had all the hallmarks of a planned anti-Semitic attack, a suspect
tarrived at the landmark tourist site in his Audi car.

Witnesses said he carried a rucksack and "looked determined" before pulling out
his weapon from the bag. "Bodies were left lying on the ground inside and
outside the building," said a local police spokesman.

"There was blood everywhere and people were screaming."

Around a dozen other visitors to the museum were caught up in the carnage,
suffering minor injuries and severe shock.

After the slaughter, the attacker jumped back into the Audi and fled.

A witness managed to write down its number plate and alerted police, who caught
the suspected gunman soon afterwards.

SEARCH: Forensics teams scour the area for evidence after the shooting [AP]

The three dead were struck by bullets in the face or throat, said Ine Van
Wymersch, spokeswoman for the prosecutor's office. No further details were
given.

Mr Van Wymersch confirmed one suspect was detained after he drove away from the
museum around the time of the attack, and a second person being sought for
questioning left the area on foot.

Mr Van Wymersch said security camera footage was being studied to try to
identify the person.

Prime Minister Elio Di Rupo expressed support for the Jewish community, and said
"everything has been mobilised that can be mobilised" to bring the killer or
killers to justice.

"All Belgians are united," he said.

CORDON: Police block off the streets as they investigate [REUTERS]

A statement issued by the office of Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu
condemned the attack and said, "This act of murder is the result of constant
incitement against Jews and their state."

Milquet said anti-terror measures had immediately been heightened as a
precaution. "We decided to apply to a maximum level of protection to Jewish
sites," she said.

Brussels mayor Yvan Mayeur said: "It's clearly extremely serious", and "it's not
a coincidence that the target was a Jewish museum."

In neighbouring France, President Francois Hollande condemned the "horrifying
killings with the greatest force." In a statement, he expressed France's
solidarity with Belgium and offered condolences to the families of the victims.

SHOCK: Interior Minister Joelle Milquet addresses the media near the site [AP]

Alain Sobotik, another eyewitness, said he saw two bodies in the lobby of the
museum.

He told France's AFP news agency: "One was a young woman with her head covered
in blood," adding: "She was holding a leaflet and looked like a tourist." Prime
Minister Elio Di Rupo expressed his condolences and support for the victims'
families.

Anti-Semitic attacks have become all too common in Europe over recent years,
with Islamic radicals often behind them.

Maurice Sosnowski, President of the Coordination Centre of Jewish organisations
in Belgium, said that this one, if confirmed, would be "the worst anti-Jewish
attacks since the Second World War."

brightcove.createExperiences;The Brussels museum highlights the suffering of
Jews who were murdered, tortured and imprisoned during the Nazi Holocaust.

In 2012 a French-Algerian anti-Semitic fanatic called Mohamed Merah gunned down
seven people in and around the south western French city of Toulouse before
being killed in a shootout with police.

Among the victims of the 23-year-old Al-Qaeda supporter were three Jewish
children and a rabbi who were murdered in front of their schools.

In the face of such savagery, security groups have launched numerous clamp-downs
on extremists, including in cities in Belgium, which has a large Muslim
population.About half of Belgium's 42,000-strong Jewish community lives in
Brussels.

LOAD-DATE: May 25, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDE


              Copyright 2014 Northern and Shell Media Publications
                              All Rights Reserved

                              29 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                 Express Online

                        May 25, 2014 Sunday 1:58 AM GMT

'Terror attack' kills three at Jewish museum

BYLINE: Peter Allen

LENGTH: 472 words


A SUSPECTED terrorist gunman is in custody today after murdering three people
and leaving another seriously injured at the Jewish Museum in Brussels.

SHOOTING: Police block off the street near the scene[EPA/AP]

In what had all the hallmarks of a planned anti-Semitic attack, he had arrived
in the landmark tourist site just before 4pm yesterday in his Audi car.

Witnesses said he carried a rucksack and 'looked determined' before pulling out
his weapon from the bag. 'Bodies were left lying on the ground inside and
outside the building,' said a local police spokesman.

'There was blood everywhere and people were screaming.'

Around a dozen other visitors to the museum were caught up in the carnage,
suffering minor injuries and severe shock.

SEARCH: Forensics teams scour the area for evidence after the shooting [AP]

Deputy Prime Minister Didier Reynders was in earshot when he said he 'heard
bursts of gunfire, rushed here and saw the bodies on the ground'.

After the slaughter, the attacker jumped back into the Audi and fled.

A witness managed to write down its number plate and alerted police, who caught
the suspected gunman soon afterwards.

Confirming an 'undoubted terrorist attack', Brussels mayor Yvan Mayeur said
three men and a woman were hit, saying: 'It's clearly extremely serious', and
'it's not a coincidence that the target was a Jewish museum.'

CORDON: Police block off the streets as they investigate [REUTERS]

Alain Sobotik, another eyewitness, said he saw two bodies in the lobby of the
museum.

He told France's AFP news agency: 'One was a young woman with her head covered
in blood,' adding: 'She was holding a leaflet and looked like a tourist.' Prime
Minister Elio Di Rupo expressed his condolences and support for the victims'
families.

Anti-Semitic attacks have become all too common in Europe over recent years,
with Islamic radicals often behind them.

SHOCK: Interior Minister Joelle Milquet addresses the media near the site [AP]

Maurice Sosnowski, President of the Coordination Centre of Jewish organisations
in Belgium, said that this one, if confirmed, would be 'the worst anti-Jewish
attacks since the Second World War.'

The Brussels museum highlights the suffering of Jews who were murdered, tortured
and imprisoned during the Nazi Holocaust.

brightcove.createExperiences;

In 2012 a French-Algerian anti-Semitic fanatic called Mohamed Merah gunned down
seven people in and around the south western French city of Toulouse before
being killed in a shootout with police.

Among the victims of the 23-year-old Al-Qaeda supporter were three Jewish
children and a rabbi who were murdered infront of their schools.

In the face of such savagery, security groups have launched numerous clamp-downs
on extremists, including in cities in Belgium, which has a large Muslim
population.

LOAD-DATE: May 25, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDE


              Copyright 2014 Northern and Shell Media Publications
                              All Rights Reserved

                              30 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                   MailOnline

                        May 25, 2014 Sunday 2:08 PM GMT

Gunmen still on the run after three people are shot dead and one left fighting
for life in 'anti-Semitic' terrorist attack at Brussels Jewish Museum

BYLINE: PETER ALLEN

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 675 words



     ·    Witnesses saw man run in from car park at 3.50pm, shoot and flee
     ·    Belgian ministers have branded the attack 'an act of anti-Semitism'
     ·    Deputy Prime Minister was in the vicinity, described the scene as
          'terrible'
     ·    Area around museum in central Brussels closed off, suspect arrested
     ·    A witness wrote down number plate of his Audi and alerted police


A suspected anti-Semitic terrorist and his accomplice were still on the run
today following a triple murder at the Jewish Museum in Brussels.

Two Israeli tourists were among those gunned down in the atrocity, which is
being linked with similar crimes carried out by Al-Qaeda linked Islamic
radicals.

One man has been arrested, and remains in custody, but he is not thought to have
a direct link with the actual killings.

Scroll down for video

Two men were seen pulling up outside the museum in an Audi car just before 4pm,
before one took out a weapon from black bag.

He immediately targeted staff and visitors inside the museum, firing bullets
into their faces and necks. None of the victims have yet been named.

An official working for the Israeli Foreign Ministry today said: 'A couple in
their fifties from Tel Aviv were among the victims.

'We trust that the Belgian authorities, including the judicial authorities and
the police, will be able to shed light on this terrible crime.'

One of the men responsible was seen running away, while the second is thought to
have got away in the car.

Its number plate was written down by a witness who alerted police, but the man
arrested is not thought to be the getaway driver.

He remains in custody but his legal status has been downgraded from 'suspect' to
'witness.'

Horrific pictures have been released of victims lying in pools of blood, while
CCTV footage is also being studied by the police.

A police spokesman said: 'Bodies were left lying on the ground inside and
outside the building. There was  blood everywhere and people were screaming.'

The victims were reported to be two women and one man. Another man is seriously
wounded.

A suspect was arrested and was being questioned last night by security
officials.

The attacker was seen jumping into an Audi after the shootings by a witness who
made a note of the number plate. The car was stopped by police shortly
afterwards.

Belgian Deputy Prime Minister Didier Reynders, who was nearby at the time and
heard the gunfire, was among the first to reach the scene.

He said he was 'shocked' by the killings, but added: 'There were a lot of
witnesses and the investigation is moving fast.'

Confirming that it was an 'undoubted terrorist attack', Brussels Mayor Yvan
Mayeur said: 'It's not a coincidence the target was a Jewish museum.'

Eyewitness Alain Sobotik revealed he saw two bodies in the lobby of the museum.

'One was a young woman with her head covered in blood. She was holding a leaflet
and looked like a tourist,' he added.

Around a dozen other visitors to the museum were caught up in the carnage,
suffering minor injuries and severe shock.

Prime Minister Elio Di Rupo expressed his condolences and support for the
victims' families.

Anti-Semitic attacks have become all too common in Europe over recent years,
with Islamic radicals often behind them.

Maurice Sosnowski, President of the Coordination Centre of Jewish organisations
in Belgium, said that this one, if confirmed, would be 'the worst anti-Jewish
attack in Brussels since the Second World War.'

The Brussels museum highlights the suffering of Jews who were murdered, tortured
and imprisoned during the Nazi Holocaust.

In 2012 a French-Algerian anti-Semitic fanatic called Mohamed Merah gunned down
seven people in and around the south western city of Toulouse before being
killed in a shootout with police.

Among the victims of the 23-year-old Al-Qaeda supporter were three Jewish
children and a rabbi who were murdered infront of their schools.

In the face of such savagery, security groups have launched numerous clamp-downs
on extremists, including in cities like Belgium, which has a large Muslim
population.

LOAD-DATE: May 25, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDM


                   Copyright 2014 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              31 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                   MailOnline

                        May 25, 2014 Sunday 1:21 AM GMT

Three dead and one fighting for life after 'anti-Semitic' terrorist attack at
the Jewish Museum in Brussels when a man with a backpack opened fire then fled

BYLINE: PETER ALLEN

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 510 words



     ·    Witnesses saw man run in from car park at 3.50pm, shoot and flee
     ·    Belgian ministers have branded the attack 'an act of anti-Semitism'
     ·    Deputy Prime Minister was in the vicinity, described the scene as
          'terrible'
     ·    Area around museum in central Brussels closed off, suspect arrested
     ·    A witness wrote down number plate of his Audi and alerted police


Three people were shot dead yesterday when a lone gunman opened fire at the
Jewish Museun in Brussels.

Another victim is fighting for life after the attack in just before 4pm.

In what Belgian authorities described as an apparently anti-Semitic attack, the
man arrived by car at the city-centre tourist attraction.

Witnesses said he was carrying a rucksack and 'looked determined' before he
pulled out a gun and opened fire at visitors.

Scroll down for video

A police spokesman said: 'Bodies were left lying on the ground inside and
outside the building. There was  blood everywhere and people were screaming.'

The victims were reported to be two women and one man. Another man is seriously
wounded.

A suspect was arrested and was being questioned last night by security
officials.

The attacker was seen jumping into an Audi after the shootings by a witness who
made a note of the number plate. The car was stopped by police shortly
afterwards.

Belgian Deputy Prime Minister Didier Reynders, who was nearby at the time and
heard the gunfire, was among the first to reach the scene.

He said he was 'shocked' by the killings, but added: 'There were a lot of
witnesses and the investigation is moving fast.'

Confirming that it was an 'undoubted terrorist attack', Brussels Mayor Yvan
Mayeur said: 'It's not a coincidence the target was a Jewish museum.'

Eyewitness Alain Sobotik revealed he saw two bodies in the lobby of the museum.

'One was a young woman with her head covered in blood. She was holding a leaflet
and looked like a tourist,' he added.

Around a dozen other visitors to the museum were caught up in the carnage,
suffering minor injuries and severe shock.

Prime Minister Elio Di Rupo expressed his condolences and support for the
victims' families.

Anti-Semitic attacks have become all too common in Europe over recent years,
with Islamic radicals often behind them.

Maurice Sosnowski, President of the Coordination Centre of Jewish organisations
in Belgium, said that this one, if confirmed, would be 'the worst anti-Jewish
attack in Brussels since the Second World War.'

The Brussels museum highlights the suffering of Jews who were murdered, tortured
and imprisoned during the Nazi Holocaust.

In 2012 a French-Algerian anti-Semitic fanatic called Mohamed Merah gunned down
seven people in and around the south western city of Toulouse before being
killed in a shootout with police.

Among the victims of the 23-year-old Al-Qaeda supporter were three Jewish
children and a rabbi who were murdered infront of their schools.

In the face of such savagery, security groups have launched numerous clamp-downs
on extremists, including in cities like Belgium, which has a large Muslim
population.

LOAD-DATE: May 25, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDM


                   Copyright 2014 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              32 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                 Sunday Herald

                              May 25, 2014 Sunday
                                   1 Edition

Somali parliament counts death toll after attack by terror group

BYLINE: Al-Shabaab kill at least 10 in bomb and gun assault on heavily fortified
government compound By Feisal Omar and Abdi Sheikh in Mogadishu

SECTION: HS - NEWS; Pg. 46

LENGTH: 534 words


THE Islamic extremist militia al-Shabaab stormed Somalia's parliament yesterday,
killing at least 10 people in a bomb and gun assault that the United Nations
called "an attack against the people".

The group that killed 67 people at a Kenyan shopping mall last year started this
latest attack with a car bomb at a gate to the heavily fortified parliament
compound, followed by a suicide bombing and gun battle that continued for hours.

The death toll from the attack is expected to rise amid local media reports of
dozens being killed.

Some witnesses counted four bodies at the scene and saw a soldier fall from a
rooftop after being shot. Television pictures showed a large pool of blood near
the blast site, and a man with his shirt drenched in blood running away from the
scene.

Hours after the initial explosion, gunfire and smaller blasts could still be
heard around the parliament.

Police spokesman Kasim Ahmed Roble, who was at the scene, said: "Ten government
forces died and 14 others were injured in the attack today. Four lawmakers were
also injured. Seven of the fighters who attacked the house were also killed, as
you see their bodies."

Al-Shabaab spokesman Sheikh Abdiasis Abu Musab confirmed al-Shabaab's
responsibility, saying: "We are behind the suicide bombing, explosions and the
fighting inside the so-called Somali parliament house."

The parliament a building around is 300 metres from the presidential palace
which is guarded by African Union peacekeepers and Somalian forces.

The attack on it showed that the al-Qaeda-linked group remains capable of
hitting the centre of Mogadishu despite being pushed out of the capital two
years ago.

"The terrorists have once again shown that they are against all Somalis, by
killing our innocent brothers and sisters," said prime minister Abdiweli Sheikh
Ahmed.

"These cowardly, despicable actions are not a demonstration of the true Islamic
faith."

Nicholas Kay, special representative of the UN Secretary-General for Somalia,
said: "The Federal Parliament represents the people of Somalia and their hopes
and aspirations for a peaceful and stable future. Today's attack is an attack
against the people of Somalia for which there can be no justification."

Somalia's government is struggling to impose order more than two decades after
the fall of dictator Mohamed Siad Barre tipped the country into chaos.

In February at least 11 people were killed when al-Shabaab attacked the
presidential compound. In April they killed two lawmakers.

A Western diplomat with links to regional intelligence agencies said the attack
would add to pressure on President Hassan Sheikh Mohamud from 100 or so
parliamentarians who last month called for him to be impeached over worsening
security.

"The federal government is exercising no control," the diplomat said. "Those ...
in parliament will start asking questions: what is this guy achieving?"

He said the attack also showed a surge by African Union troops had not weakened
al-Shabaab's capacity to strike in the capital, where co-ordination between
Somali and foreign intelligence is poor.

"Because intelligence is fragmented, al-Shabaab is slipping through the net,"
said the diplomat. "They are becoming more dangerous."

LOAD-DATE: May 25, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Somali government troops heading for the parliament building in
Mogadishu as the al-Shabaab group attacksPhotograph: Feisal Omar/Reuters

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: SH


                      Copyright 2014 Newsquest Media Group
                              All Rights Reserved

                              33 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                  Sunday Life

                                  May 25, 2014
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

GRANNY CLAIMS UDA BOSS ATTACKED HER;
TERROR BOSS IN BRAWL NEW ALLEGATIONS Pensioner says Bunting threw her to the
ground

BYLINE: Patricia Devlin

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 679 words


THIS is the great grandmother who claims to have been thrown to the ground by
north Belfast UDA leader John Bunting after she confronted him for "terrorising"
Tigers Bay.

Peggy McCullough says she was attacked by Bunting last week moments before the
UDA's north Belfast boss was beaten up in the street.

Peggy, a 71-year-old cancer survivor, says she was left bloodied and bruised
before gobsmacked bystanders "jumped in" to stop him from seriously injuring
her.

The UDA boss was knocked unconscious and had his phone stolen during the ugly
brawl.

Peggy says she has since been told loyalists plan to murder her.

The grandmother told how she intervened after Bunting became involved in an
argument close to her Mervue Street home.

SCREAMING

"I was in my neighbour's house when I heard all this screaming and shouting on
the street. I walked outside and there was John Bunting, beside my grandson's
house, shouting and giving out orders. I just walked over to him and told him to
get off the street and leave everyone, including my family, alone. The next
thing I knew he grabbed me and threw me to the ground.

"All I remember is my two neighbours lifting me up and getting me against the
wall. I felt all dizzy and sick."

Bystanders intervened and Bunting, who was knocked to the ground, was left with
cuts to his face. Mrs McCullough was treated at the scene for injuries to her
arm and face, after refusing to go to hospital.

Said Peggy: "I fell on my arm, and my face hit the ground, and I couldn't get
up. My neighbours actually thought I had taken a heart attack."

She said it is the second time in weeks she has been involved in an altercation
with the UDA boss.

"I called the police, they came out took a statement, but I dropped it," she
said.

"I wasn''t worried about myself, I was worried about my children because he just
doesn''t like our family. I was afraid of a petrol bomb coming through my
window. I''m still scared, but now I''m taking a stand."

Police informed Peggy, her son and her grandson last week that they had received
intelligence that loyalists planned to murder them. A number of family members
have also had their homes searched by police, believed to be looking for the UDA
man's phone, which was lost during the altercation.

"Police are out looking for his phone, yet I'm in my house, barricaded in with a
chair to the door. I can't even get a security camera outside my house. That
just isn't right," said Peggy.

"I'"I'm not really worried about myself, I am worried about my family. I have a
son who is a Christian and I don't want him to break his Christianity over him."

Bunting has been under pressure from a rival gang of loyalists who want him
ousted as north Belfast UDA leader.

Last month he was told by police to increase his security after photographs of
his home in north Down were placed on social media websites.

The images were circulated on Twitter and Facebook by supporters of a gang
trying to take control of the north Belfast UDA.

Peggy claims Bunting is not wanted in Tigers Bay.

"He''s putting this picture across that he''s working for the community, he''s
not. He doesn''t speak for the community because the community doesn't want
him."

Meanwhile, the chair of a North Belfast victims group says the UDA is behind
threats to kill him and "burn out" his office.

Robert McKee claims he received the chilling telephone threat on Thursday.

The 34-year-old, who runs the York Street offices of Belfast Innocent Victims
group, said: "On Thursday night I received a call to my mobile telling me that I
was going to be shot dead and the office was going to be burnt out. And we have
absolutely no doubt that these threats are coming from John Bunting's UDA crew.

"I know of two other people who have received warnings from the PSNI that they
could be murdered, and it actually states on the piece of paper handed over to
them that it's in retaliation for the John Bunting attack.

"Why isn't he being questioned over these threats?" High profile loyalist Bill
Hill was another to receive a warning to increase his security last week.

LOAD-DATE: May 25, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: FRIGHTENING: The threat warning given to Peggy McCullough by the PSNI
INJURED: Great grandmother Peggy McCullough claims her injuries (inset right)
were inflicted during an altercation with UDA boss John Bunting (inset, left)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: BSL


                           Copyright 2014 Sunday Life
                              All Rights Reserved

                              34 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring Middle East - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                              May 26, 2014 Monday

Egypt condemns Djibouti terrorist attack

LENGTH: 72 words


Text of report by Egyptian state-run news agency MENA

Cairo, 26 May: Foreign Ministry spokesman Badr Abd-al-Ati expressed Egypt's
condemnation of the deadly terrorist attack that targeted a restaurant in
Djibouti's capital.

Abd-al-Ati expressed condolences to the families of the victims and wished the
injured an early recovery.

No Egyptians were among the victims, he said.

Source: MENA news agency, Cairo, in English 1539gmt 26 May 14

LOAD-DATE: May 26, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2014 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              35 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                          Daily Record and Sunday Mail

                              May 26, 2014 Monday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

MURDER ACCUSED FORCED US OUT OF SPAIN;
TRIAL TERROR FAMILY'S ORDEAL ; Mob-attack Scot's widow says defendants tried to
intimidate her and her daughter outside court

BYLINE: PAUL O'HARE

SECTION: FEATURES; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 455 words


THE widow of a Scot killed in a mob attack in Spain claims the men on trial over
his death deliberately intimidated her.

Grieving Teresa Mallon, 47, said the 15 defendants jostled her and her daughter
Jenny, 25, when they arrived at court with no protection.

Teresa said they had to flee the country and return home to Glasgow as the trial
continued and the men became more hostile.

The judge later warned the men about their conduct towards the family and last
night, Teresa and Jenny returned to Malaga for the resumption of the trial.

Teresa's husband Stephen, 49, died 11 days after he was thrown off a balcony
near a Costa del Sol bar.

The court has heard claims that the gang battered the dad of three with bottles,
metal poles, belts and plant pots in the mountain village of Competa in June
2009.

And yesterday, Teresa told how her family's ordeal has been compounded by the
behaviour of the accused.

She said: "The defendants leave the same way we go in and out of the court. It's
not like in this country.

"They were waiting for us when we pulled up in a taxi.

"I said to my daughter, 'We will keep our heads down and go to the other side'.
They tried to walk in front of us but we just completely pulled out of the way.

"We stood next to the guards and they went in on their own. They did not say
anything but they gave us dirty looks, stared and sniggered.

"It was intimidating, disgusting behaviour. They seem to be getting more hostile
as the trial goes on."

The episode last Wednesday convinced Teresa to travel home ahead of schedule.
She said: "We felt quite anxious. We felt we couldn't go out as we were only 40
minutes from the village where it happened."

Teresa believes she should have received more support from the British Consulate
- but she added: "To be fair to the judge, when he heard about it he said, 'You
do not go near them again'.

"He is doing his job. There are three High Court judges and they are not pleased
with the defendants at all. You can see they are disgusted with them. They keep
telling them off in the court as well."

The mum and daughter left Scotland bound for Spain yesterday. Teresa said: "We
are dreading it. We are there on our own and we have no support. Our Government
has left us to do this on our own.

"If we had the correct support in place like there is in this country, we
wouldn't have to go through all this.

"We should be escorted into court by the Spanish or British police."

One of the 15 men is charged with Stephen's killing. A second is accused of
assault with a dangerous weapon and the other 13 with being involved in the
violence that led to the Glasgow-born roofer's death.

The trial is expected to finish tomorrow.

They seem to get more hostile as the trial goes on TERESA MALLON

LOAD-DATE: May 26, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: ACCUSED Some of the 15 defendants in court in Malaga. Right, Stephen
Mallon
VULNERABLE Teresa Mallon, right, and her daughter Jenny feel unsafe in Spanish
court

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DRC


             Copyright 2014 Scottish Daily Record & Sunday Mail Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                              36 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                          Future News - Media Planner

                              May 26, 2014 Monday

6th anniversary of start of Mumbai terror attacks

SECTION: NEWS; US Major Events; Conflict & Terrorism

LENGTH: 136 words


6th anniversary of the start of a three-day terrorist attack on Mumbai, in
India, when militants armed with grenades and assault rifles targeted six sites
across the city incl the five-star Taj Palace and Oberoi Hotels, the main CST
train station, and Leopolds cafe. Sieges at the hotels were finally brought to a
conclusion on 29 Nov 2008 with 10 militants identified, but only one of them -
Pakistani national Mohammad Ajmal Qasab - was captured alive. He was sentenced
to death in May 2010 and executed in November 2012 after the rejection of his
appeal for this to be commuted to life imprisonment. At least 166 civilians and
nine attackers were killed incl nationals from the U.S., Australia, Canada,
France, Germany, Israel, Italy, Japan, Singapore and Thailand

Event Start Date: 2014-11-26

Event End Date: 2014-11-26

LOAD-DATE: May 26, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                             Copyright 2014 Precise
                              All Rights Reserved

                              37 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                  M2 PressWIRE

                              May 26, 2014 Monday

Press Releases: Terror Attack on Somali Parliament

LENGTH: 113 words


May 24, 2014

US Department of State

Marie Harf

Deputy Department Spokesperson , Washington, DC

May 24, 2014

The United States strongly condemns today's al-Shabaab attack on the Somali
Parliament. We extend our sympathies and condolences to those affected by this
heinous act of terrorism, and commend Somali and African Union forces for their
swift and courageous response.

We continue to stand firmly with the Federal Government of Somalia and the many
international partners working to support its efforts to root out the threat
posed by al-Shabaab, and to build a more secure and prosperous future for the
Somali people. Cowardly acts such as these will not shake our resolve.

LOAD-DATE: May 26, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newswire

JOURNAL-CODE: M2PW


                      Copyright 2014 Normans Media Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              38 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                   MailOnline

                       May 27, 2014 Tuesday 11:07 PM GMT

'He was never the same after that night': How Bali bombing survivor Patrick
Byrne became the 89th victim of the terrorist attacks that killed his mates 12
years ago

BYLINE: TAYLOR AUERBACH

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 1039 words



     ·    Patrick Byrne, 41, found dead on Wednesday after 12 years of torment
     ·    The heroic Bali bombing survivor struggled emotionally since the
          attack
     ·    Remembered by friends as a joker and a party animal who hid his pain
     ·    He was never himself after walking into the Bali morgue back in 2002
     ·    He lost six of his closest mates in the bombings which killed 88
          Australians
     ·    His name will now be added to the official Coogee memorial to victims


Heroic Bali bombing survivor Patrick Byrne - who ran back into a the burning
Sari nightclub minutes after terrorists had unleashed hell - was found dead on
Wednesday.

As news of his death, which police described as not suspicious, spread among his
close network of friends at the Coogee Dolphins, he was remembered as a joker, a
party animal and a selfless mate who hid a world of pain.

Recognised with a bravery award in 2008, Pat's actions on the night of the
bombings saved countless lives. But it was the horror he faced in a makeshift
morgue in the days after the attack that would haunt him to his early grave.

The former Coogee Dolphins football club president, 41, did not sleep for two
days after explosives tore through the Sari nightclub, killing 88 Australians
including six of his closest mates. His name will now sit alongside theirs at an
official memorial to the victims in Coogee.

Pat had popped out of the club to buy a packet of cigarettes, a chance decision
that saved his life.

But he was about to engage in a harrowing and heroic rescue mission that would
change him forever.

Following the blasts, Pat ran in and out of the nightclub repeatedly - carrying
severely injured tourists to safety and putting his own life on the line.

Pat's bravery award from the GG

Patrick Richard Byrne

'Late on the night of 12 October 2002, Mr Byrne went to the aid of victims
following two explosions in the vicinity ofthe Sari Club, Denpasar, Bali...

'Early in the evening Mr Byrne and friends attended dinner before visiting the
Sari Club to meet up with other football mates.

'After leaving the club to walk back to his hotel, Mr Byrne heard a huge
explosion. He saw a large fireball, and theglass and fittings of nearby shops
began to shatter around him.

'Mr Byrne raced back to the club which was engulfed in flames.

'Confronted by the devastation and confusion, Mr Byrne anxiously searched the
site for his friends.

'He remained at the scene helping to assist injured victims and searching for
bodies.

'He later attended a nearby temporary casualty station to look for his team
mates and remained there for several hours helping distressed victims.

'For his actions, Mr Byrne is commended for brave conduct.'

'Everyone who went into the Sari club that night was a hero, it was a warzone,
and Pat did it over and over again,' close friend and fellow survivor Erik de
Haart told MailOnline.

'There were people staggering in and out, there was dust everywhere and body
bits all over the floor but Patty was charged. He was on a mission. We went over
as a team and we wanted to come back as a team.'

Less than 48 hours after the act of terrorism that killed 202 people, Pat, Erik
and Daniel 'Shorty' Mortenson, another Coogee Dolphins teammate, faced the
gut-wrenching task of identifying their friends at a makeshift morgue.

'There was four inches of bloody water on the floor of the triage room,' Mr de
Haart said.

'A pile of rags, sheets hanging off beds and shards of skin everywhere...we went
through that and eventually came to what was the morgue.

'There was a collection of arms and legs. Patty walked in and he saw that and
fell to pieces. It shocked him so hard, he couldn't handle it...we took him back
to the hotel and he's never been the same since.'

The horror of what he went through 12 years ago would haunt him for the rest of
his tortured days. Pat, or 'Patty' as he was known to his mates, was found dead
on Wednesday at his parents' Central Coast home. No note has yet been found.

'He had the worst case of survivor's guilt of all of us,' said Mr de Haart.

'It destroyed a vital part of him, a little bit of him died that day.'

Despite the anguish, Byrne continued to assist the Coogee Dolphins and his
community both financially and with his time.

He was a lover of rugby league and a talented player. He once won an U21
competition with the Eastern Suburbs Roosters.

Friends remember two sides of Patty in the years since that cowardly act of
murder by Islamist extremists.

'He had some very, very dark days. He hit the bottle hard and he overindulged in
drugs from time to time.

'There was Patty the party animal who liked to laugh and then there was a darker
side. We really couldn't pass on our nightmares to those back at home.'

Pat's marriage broke down a number of years ago and he leaves behind two boys,
both aged under nine. When he died he was living with his parents in Bateau Bay.

'What he did over in Bali was heroic,' said best friend and former flat mate
Dean Johnson.

'His mates meant everything to him. He was very outgoing, the life of the party
and if people weren't enjoying themselves he would go out of his way to crack a
joke at your expense or his.'

Tonight the Coogee Dolphins will be reuniting at a pub in the eastern suburbs to
remember a selfless survivor of the Bali bombings who would eventually become a
victim.

There are already plans in place at the club to ensure he is never forgotten.

'He'd be loving the fact that we're all getting together for a few beers to
remember how much he annoyed us,' said Mr Johnson.

Pat, who became a successful businessman back in Australia, was given a bravery
award in 2008 for his actions.

In the 12 years since his mates Clint Thompson, 29, Adam Howard, 27, Dave
Mavroudis, 28, Shane Foley, 34, Gerard Yeo, 20 and Joshua Iliffe, 28 were
murdered he fought a daily struggle.

As is true of all heroes, the one life he couldn't save was his own.

A public funeral will be held for Pat next Wednesday at 11am at St Mary's Church
in North Sydney.

If you or someone you know needs help, call Lifeline on 13 11 14.

LOAD-DATE: May 27, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDM


                   Copyright 2014 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              39 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                        May 27, 2014 Tuesday 2:57 PM GMT

Archbishop of Canterbury arrives in Pakistan to support embattled Christians;
Religious minority has suffered blasphemy accusations, terrorists attacks and
forced conversions as persecution increases

BYLINE: By Rob Crilly Islamabad

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 329 words


The Archbishop of Canterbury has arrived in Pakistan to show his backing for the
country's persecuted Christian minority and to ask Muslim leaders for help in
building better relations.

The Most Rev Justin Welby is due to meet politicians as well as bishops from the
Church of Pakistan before travelling to Bangladesh and India.

The trip, conducted amid tight security, is part of a promise to meet leaders of
the Anglican community as early as possible after taking up office and comes as
Christians in some parts of the developing world suffer attacks at the hands of
Islamist groups.

Xavier William, of Life for All Ministries who is due to meet the archbishop on
Wednesday, said the visit was a source of comfort at a time when Pakistan's
Christian community - and other religious minorities - faced unprecedented
pressure.

"We are seeing that persecution of Christians has got worse here in recent
years," he said.

"So the visit is a positive thing. It's a sign of hope but we will have to wait
and see if it helps us in the future."

Christian campaign groups say they are at risk of forced conversions. Angry mobs
have also torched Christian enclaves.

Last year brought the worst terrorist attack on churchgoers, when two suicide
bombers detonated their explosives inside All Saints Church in Peshawar, killing
127 people and injuring 250 more.

At the time, the Archbishop said the dead should be considered Christian
martyrs.

"They have been attacked because they were testifying to their faith in Jesus
Christ by going to church, and that is outside any acceptable expression in any
circumstances for any reason of religious differences," he said.

Christians, who make up less than 4 per cent of Pakistan's population, have also
been singled out under the country's draconian blasphemy laws. In 2012, a
14-year-old girl was secretly given sanctuary in Canada after being acquitted of
the charge for fear that religious hardliners might take the law into their own
hands.

LOAD-DATE: May 28, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTNS


                  Copyright 2014 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              40 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                       May 27, 2014 Tuesday 11:43 AM GMT

China shuts bomb factories as 'people's war' on terror begins;
Beijing launches "ultra-tough" anti-terror campaign following a wave of attacks
that has been blamed on Islamic extremists from the country's far west

BYLINE: Tom Phillips in Shanghai and Malcolm Moore in Beijing

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 740 words


China dismantled a major bomb-making network and arrested five suspected
extremists at the start of a major nationwide "war on terror" that has seen
armed police, helicopters and the military deployed in major cities including
Beijing and Shanghai.

Police in Hotan, a remote town in the troubled western province of Xinjiang,
closed two bomb workshops, seized 1.8 tons of material for making explosives,
and arrested five members of an "alleged terror and extremist group", state
media said on Tuesday.

The raids came as Beijing launched a one-year anti-terror drive following an
early morning suicide attack on a market in Urumqi, Xinjiang's capital, last
Thursday that left 44 dead.

The campaign to wipe out "gun and explosive manufacturing dens and terrorist
training camps" comes after a wave of knife and bomb attacks in west, southwest,
southeast and northern China.

Since last October, when a car slammed into crowds in Beijing's Tiananmen Square
and exploded, killing five, more than 80 people have died in at least four major
attacks linked to western extremists.

Staff at the US embassy in Beijing have been instructed not to travel to
Xinjiang "in light of recent events and ongoing tensions" while the Foreign
Office has urged British tourists to "be vigilant" there.

"Terrorist activities can happen anywhere, anytime," Xinhua, China's official
news agency, warned this week.

The attacks, blamed by Beijing on Islamic extremists, have prompted a massive
show of government force.

In Urumqi, which has witnessed two attacks in less than a month, Special Forces
have been stationed outside the city's largest mosque. Schools, supermarkets,
shopping centres and even karaoke bars have also tightened security, according
to domestic reports.

With the 25th anniversary of the Tiananmen crackdown next week, Beijing has
imposed some of the heaviest security it has ever seen.

SWAT teams, some of which have been posted to guard subway stations, were told
on Monday to shoot on sight, without warning or confirming identification.
Squads of armed policemen in combat uniforms have also been posted at major road
intersections.

Five police helicopters have patrolled over the city since the weekend, hovering
over major attractions and the city's train stations. Extra security at subway
stations has also caused commuter chaos, with long snaking lines as passengers
wait to be frisked.

Heavily armed security forces have also appeared on Shanghai's streets and
underground.

The rhetoric accompanying the anti-terror drive suggests Beijing's response to
the upsurge in violence will be unflinching.

The "ultra-tough" campaign "is expected to shake off some unnecessary
constraints", the state-run Global Times said on Monday without expanding on
what that meant.

Zhang Chunxian, Xinjiang's Communist Party chief, declared a "people's war" on
"malignant violence" and warned that the confrontation with terrorists would be
"very intense".

"Strengthened management of religious affairs" would be required, Mr Zhang was
quoted as saying.

Experts fear the attacks could have disastrous consequences for already fraught
relations between China's Han majority and the largely Muslim Uighur group who
are native to Xinjiang.

The Urumqi bombings represented "a chilling new chapter" in relations between
the two ethnic groups, Allen R. Carlson, an associate professor in government at
Cornell University, argued in a recent essay.

"The demands within the country for retribution and revenge are growing with
each attack and are sure to reach a new pitch in the coming days," he wrote.

Writing in the Xinjiang Daily newspaper, Abdulitiv Abdiryim, a senior Communist
Party member in the region, said the attacks were the work of "lunatics without
humanity".

However, in an implicit recognition that the social chasm between Han Chinese
and Uighurs has played a role in the province's troubles, Beijing this week
unveiled a raft of measures aimed at combating poverty among Xinjiang natives.

They include a job creation scheme ensuring "that at least one person from
zero-employment families is offered a job," Xinhua reported.

A massive heart-and-minds campaign, by which tens of thousands of officials are
being sent to rural areas to provide aid, is also underway.

"We want all villagers to enjoy the achievements of China's fast economic
growth," Sun Hua, a Communist Party official who has been dispatched to a
village near the city of Kashgar, told the China Daily.

LOAD-DATE: May 27, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTNS


                  Copyright 2014 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              41 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring South Asia - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                             May 28, 2014 Wednesday

Pakistan ministry alerts of possible terror attack in Gilgit-Baltistan

LENGTH: 301 words


Text of report by Pakistani newspaper The Express Tribune on 28 May

Gilgit: The Ministry of Interior has sent a security alert to the government of
Gilgit-Baltistan (G-B) warning that terrorists may target the region's Ismaili
community and foreign tourists.

"A terrorist organisation is planning to carry out a vehicle-borne suicide
attack at a prominent venue in Gilgit," reads the statement which has been
addressed to G-B's inspector general of police (IGP) and chief secretary. "The
likely targets are the Ismaili community or foreigners staying in the city."

The letter adds that the attack has been planned by an outfit based in
Miranshah, North Waziristan with instructions to suspects in Gilgit to undertake
the task.

In the light of the alert, the G-B home department has written a letter to the
IGP asking him to guard all routes leading to major hotels.

The department has also urged the police chief to take fool proof security
measures in Gilgit and elsewhere in the region to thwart any attack on religious
communities and foreigners.

Following the alert, security has been tightened in the city with law
enforcement agencies checking people entering G-B.

"We are keeping a close watch on the situation and the security plan for the
region is being revisited daily," said Home Secretary Attaur Rahman while
talking to journalists on Tuesday [27 May].

Rahman said security has also been beefed up along the Karakoram Highway (KKH)
to ensure safe passage.

In June 2013, terrorists massacred 10 foreign mountaineers and their Pakistani
guide at the Nanga Parbat base camp.

In August that year, an SP and an army colonel and captain were killed in Chilas
in a deadly ambush. The officials were investigating the Nanga Parbat incident.

Source: Express Tribune website, Karachi, in English 28 May 14

LOAD-DATE: May 28, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2014 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              42 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                   MailOnline

                      May 28, 2014 Wednesday 10:19 AM GMT

Revealed: How 9/11 terror attacks and immigration fears have fuelled a rise in
racism in 21st century Britain

BYLINE: MATT CHORLEY, MAILONLINE POLITICAL EDITOR

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 613 words



     ·    30% of Brits are 'very' or 'a little' prejudiced against people of
          other races
     ·    Figure has been rising since the start of the 21st century when it was
          25%
     ·    32% of men and 29% of women report being prejudiced based on race
     ·    Racist attitudes highest in the West Midlands and lowest in London
     ·    The over-55s, unqualified and manual workers most likely to be
          prejudiced


Racist attitudes in Britain have risen in the last decade, fuelled by concerns
about immigration and the 9/11 terror attacks in the US, a new study shows.

Almost a third of Brits described themselves as either 'very' or 'a little'
prejudiced against people of other races last year 2013, up from a quarter at
the start of the 21st century.

It shows levels of racial prejudice are highest amongst men, the over-55s, the
least-educated, manual workers, people in the West Midlands and Conservative
voters.

The NatCen British Social Attitudes survey shows levels of self-reported racial
prejudice fell in the 1980s and 1990s from a high of 38 per cent in 1987 to a
low of 25 per cent in 2001.

Experts say the US terror attacks in 2001, carried out by Al Qaeda, led to
increased levels of prejudice against people from different races.

By 2011 the figure hit 38 per cent, before falling back to 26 per cent in 2012,
possibly as a result of the impact of the London Olympic Games.

Penny Young, chief executive of NatCen Social Research, said the 'marked turning
around' in the figures after 2001 suggested the change could be linked to the
impact of the terrorist attacks in September 2001 in the US.

She added that fears over immigration were another likely contributing factor.
Up until 2001, she said, the decline in self-reported racial prejudice had
seemed 'inexorable'.

'Back in 1983, when we started British Social Attitudes, it looked as if it was
an inexorable decline, it looked like as if it was part of increasing socially
liberal Britain, so things like attitudes towards same-sex marriage, having
children before marriage and so on, they were all going in one direction,' she
told BBC Radio 4's Today programme.

But in 2001 the trend changed, with two probably causes, she said. 'It was a
very marked turning round in 2001, so it may well be an impact of 9/11, that
people started to feel more fearful.

'Or to do with people feeling concerned about the impact of immigration in their
own area or being fearful of the impact of immigration in their own area.'

Levels of racial prejudice rose with age, with 25 per cent of 17 to 34-year-olds
describing themselves as racially prejudiced in comparison to 36 per cent of
over-55s.

Some 32 per cent of men reported some racial prejudiced, compared to 29 per cent
of women.

Education had an impact on views with 19 per cent of those with a degree
reporting racial prejudice, and 38 per cent of those with no qualifications.

The area least likely to self-describe as racially prejudiced was inner London,
at 16 per cent, with the West Midlands the most likely at 35 per cent.

Levels of racial prejudice also varied markedly across political parties.
Amongst Conservative supporters 39 per cent described themselves as racially
prejudced in 2013, compared to 24 per cent of Labour voters and 18 per cent of
Lib Dems.

There has been a marked increase in the level of prejudice amongst people who
supporter other parties, up from 24 per cent in 2002 to 41 per cent in 2013.

The last decade has seen the rise of the BNP and UKIP, which could explain part
of this increase.

Just over nine in 10 of those who admitted to some level of racial prejudice
said they would also like to see a reduction in immigration levels, compared
with around seven in 10 who said that were not prejudiced at all.

LOAD-DATE: May 28, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDM


                   Copyright 2014 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              43 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                       May 28, 2014 Wednesday 8:35 PM GMT

China conducts anti-terrorism exercises;
Chinese police take part in anti-terror exercises as the country faces a rising
tide of attacks by terrorists and religious extremists

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 82 words


On Thursday, 39 people were killed and more than 90 others injured in a series
of car bombings in Urumqi, the capital of northwest Xinjiang Uygur Autonomous
Region.

It has prompted major cities to heighten security in public places and tighten
control of explosives and weapons, with police across China being put through
anti-terror training.

Police were filmed scaling buildings using ropes and responding to mocked-up
hijackings on buses.

Source: ITN

LOAD-DATE: May 29, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTNS


                  Copyright 2014 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              44 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                      May 28, 2014 Wednesday 12:52 PM GMT

9/11 terror attacks fuelled decade-long rise in racism in the UK;
Experts say national survey data showing increased the levels of self-reported
'racial prejudice' across Britain are caused by fears over immigration and the
fall out from the New York terror attacks

BYLINE: By Georgia Graham Political Correspondent

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 620 words


Racial prejudice in Britain has risen steadily in the decade since the 9/11
terror attacks, an authoritative survey of British attitudes has shown.

Nearly a third of Britons described themselves as either "very" or "a little"
prejudiced against people of other races in the NatCen British Social Attitudes
survey for 2013.

From an all-time low of 25 per cent in 2001, levels of prejudice have risen
steadily through the last decade reaching a high of 38 per cent in 2011.

This dropped dramatically in 2012 to 26 per cent, a phenomenon experts have put
down to the positive impact of athletes from a range of athletes at the London
Olympic Games.

The change was short lived and rates rose again last year with 30 per cent of
Britons identifying themselves as racially prejudiced.

Experts had thought the a reversal in the steady decline in self-reported racial
prejudice up until 2001 would be impossible.

However concerns over immigration, and the impact of the terror attacks in New
York, are likely to have fuelled the long term rise, experts said.

The survey's findings come as the Uk Independence Party, which launched a hard
hitting poster and broadcast campaign against high levels of immigration to
Britain, swept the European election and saw a surge in support at a local
level.

Penny Young, the chief executive of NatCen Social Research, said the "marked
turning around" in the figures after 2001 suggested the change could be linked
to the impact of the terrorist attacks in September 2001 in the US. Fears over
immigration were another likely contributing factor, she said.

Speaking on Radio 4's Today programme, she said: "Back in 1983, when we started
British Social Attitudes, it looked as if it was an inexorable decline, it
looked like as if it was part of increasing socially liberal Britain, so things
like attitudes towards same-sex marriage, having children before marriage and so
on, they were all going in one direction.

"On this trend, in about 2001, it seemed to change, and we think there are
probably two possible things that are driving this. One, it was a very marked
turning round in 2001, so it may well be an impact of 9/11, that people started
to feel more fearful, or to do with people feeling concerned about the impact of
immigration in their own area or being fearful of the impact of immigration in
their own area."

London, home to a high proportion of immigrants, was the least racially
prejudiced area in the UK with 16 per cent of people reporting that they were
prejudiced on the basis of race. The most racially prejudiced area was the West
Midlands at 35 per cent.

Levels of prejudice rose with age with 25 per cent of 17 to 34 year old
describing themselves as racially prejudiced in comparison to 36 per cent of
over 55s.

More educated people were half as likely to report racially prejudiced view with
19 per cent of those with a degree reporting racial prejudice compared to 38 per
cent of those with no qualifications.

Just over nine in 10 of those who admitted to some level of racial prejudice
said they would also like to see a reduction in immigration levels, compared
with around seven in 10 who said that were not prejudiced at all.

Sadiq Khan, the shadow justice minister, said that findings were "clear
evidence" that politicians should not be complacent about prejudice that
"blights" society.

Trevor Philips, the former chair of the Commission for Racial Equality and Human
Rights, said: "Integration does not just happen by accident: You have to work at
it.

"If we want to avoid a slow descent into mutual bigotry we need to drop the
dogma, weigh the evidence without sentiment, recognise the reality and work out
a programme - both symbolic and practical - to change the reality."

LOAD-DATE: May 29, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTNS


                  Copyright 2014 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              45 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                       BBC Monitoring Africa - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                             May 29, 2014 Thursday

Ethiopia condemns terrorist attacks in Somalia, Djibouti, Kenya

LENGTH: 521 words


Text of press statement in English issued by Ethiopian Ministry of Foreign
Affairs condemning terrorist attacks in Somalia and Djibouti and Ethiopia,
republished in its website on 28 May

The Foreign Ministry of the Federal Democratic Republic of Ethiopia has strongly
condemned the attack on the Somali parliament building on Saturday 24 May 2014,
in which eighteen people died. Foreign Minister, Dr Tewodros Adhanom, in a
statement issued on Tuesday, May 27, said he had been appalled and shocked by
the attack on the Federal Parliament building during a sitting of the Somali
Federal Parliament. The Federal Parliament represents the people of Somalia and
their aspirations for a peaceful future. It is a key institution in the
Somalia's progress towards peace and security, and it provides the people of
Somalia with a voice in bringing peace, democracy and development to their
country.

This attack once again demonstrates Al-Shabab's insistence on committing inhuman
acts against the people of Somalia. It has shown beyond doubt its disinterest in
the lives of innocent Somalis, in development and in peace and stability in the
country.

The people and government of Ethiopia offer their deepest condolences to the
families of the victims of this attack, as well as to the families of those
killed in the attack on a restaurant in Djibouti at the weekend in which three
people died and fifteen were injured, and to the dozens of those injured in the
explosions in a market in Nairobi on 16 May.

These cowardly attacks indiscriminately target innocent civilians. They are
deliberately intended to prevent development and progress, and they underline
the necessity to hunt down and deal with those responsible. Terrorism is an
enemy which has no future in the Horn of Africa which is a region dedicated to
development and progress. We have made great progress in infrastructure
development and in pro-poor policies, achieving much of the Millennium
Development Goals [MDG], improving people's access to health, education and
other facilities. We will not allow this to be put at risk by such senseless
attacks for which there can never be any justification.

Ethiopia, as Chair of the regional Inter-Governmental Authority for Development
[IGAD], is committed to fight against terrorism, and reaffirms its unwavering
support to Somalia, Djibouti and Kenya. It will continue to work with AMISOM in
the major task of stabilization in Somalia and in all efforts to prevent
terrorism and provide for peace and security in the IGAD region. Terrorism is a
crime against humanity: there can never be justification for terrorist acts of
any kind. As terrorism is a regional and international threat to peace and
security, Ethiopia considers such attacks are directed against all peace-loving
nations. Ethiopia will do everything in its power to eradicate this scourge of
terrorism from our region and reiterates its commitment to support Somalia,
Djibouti and Kenya in their effort to fight against Al Shabab and to bring to
justice perpetrators of these crimes.

Source: Ministry of Foreign Affairs website, Addis Ababa, in English 28 May 14

LOAD-DATE: May 29, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2014 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              46 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                          China Daily European Edition

                             May 29, 2014 Thursday

Beijing medical team set up to deal with terror attacks

SECTION: SOCIETY

LENGTH: 337 words


The Red Cross Society Beijing Branch signed an agreement on Wednesday with the
city's public security bureau to strengthen cooperation on dealing with
terrorist attacks and other emergencies.

The branch has set up a response team of 50 medical workers from the Beijing Red
Cross Emergency Rescue Center, according to Tian Zhenbiao, deputy director of
the center, a first-aid institution under the Beijing Red Cross.

The team is equipped with 20 special ambulances, according to the center. Ten
ambulances will stand ready for emergencies in and around Tian'anmen and along
Chang'an Avenue, while the rest are for "important and sensitive areas" such as
the Bird's Nest (the National Stadium) and Financial Street.

Each ambulance is equipped with a doctor, nurse and driver, according to Tian.
"We will arrive at the scene within one minute," he said.

The ambulances are equipped with special fire extinguishers.

"The water-based fire extinguishers contain nitrogen. The agent, when sprayed on
humans, can put out the fire and bring down the temperatures quickly," said Wang
Hongyu, deputy director of the Beijing Red Cross Emergency Rescue Center. "Also,
the fluid agent is not harmful to human skin."

Each ambulance is also equipped with a shield, three helmets, three pairs of
gloves that protect medical workers from cuts and a set of tools, including an
ax, a pair of pliers and a door ram.

Using these tools, medical teams can rescue people trapped in buildings or
vehicles, said Wang, adding that all team members have been trained to use the
tools.

Each ambulance has a wireless communication system that links with the Beijing
Red Cross, its emergency rescue center and the city's public security bureau.

The system enables medical teams to carry out orders from the commanding offices
instantly and transmit images from the scene of an incident to relevant
departments, Wang said.

"We will be able to give emergency aid to the needy and transfer those injured
as soon as possible," he said.

wangqingyun@chinadaily.com.cn

LOAD-DATE: May 29, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2014 China Daily Information Co
                              All Rights Reserved

                              47 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                            BBC Monitoring Kiev Unit
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                              May 30, 2014 Friday

Ukrainian border guards repel attack by "terrorists", detain 13 - TV

LENGTH: 147 words


Text of report by Ukrainian commercial, news-based 5 Kanal TV on 30 May

Border guards [of Ukraine] have repelled another attack by terrorists and
detained vehicles loaded with arms.

Throughout 29 May, a significant number of militants - about 300 were observed
near the Stanychno-Luhanska department of the State Border Guard Service. They
set up roadblocks and firing points some several hundred metres from the border
unit and launched attacks at night. They fired grenade launchers and firearms.

The border guards returned fire. A serviceman suffered slight shrapnel wounds.

Also, border guards detained three vehicles on the Russian border at night. A
total of 28 automatic rifles, six machine guns, three grenade launchers, four
sniper rifles and 40 boxes with munitions and grenades were seized. Thirteen
people were detained.

Source: 5 Kanal TV, Kiev, in Ukrainian 0600 gmt 30 May 14

LOAD-DATE: May 30, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2014 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              48 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                            BBC Monitoring Kiev Unit
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                              May 30, 2014 Friday

Ukrainian far-right party denies plotting terror attacks in Crimea

LENGTH: 348 words


Text of report by Ukrainian commercial, news-based 5 Kanal TV on 30 May

[Presenter] Russian Federal Security Service [FSB] has detained four Ukrainian
citizens in Crimea. They are being charged with involvement in the [far-right
party] Right Sector. The Ukrainians were called a sabotage and terrorist group
and accused of plotting terror attacks in Simferopol, Yalta and Sevastopol.
Ukrainian film director Oleh Sentsov is among the detainees.

Earlier, the Ukrainian Foreign Ministry confirmed that he is being held in a
remand centre in Moscow. The day before yesterday, a Russian lawyer visited
Sentsov. He said that Sentsov was in a satisfactory condition and he was
receiving all necessary legal assistance.

The Foreign Ministry also reported that another Ukrainian citizen who had been
earlier arrested in Crimea, Oleksandr Kolchenko, was held together with Sentsov.
The Russian FSB says that two more men, Hennadiy Afanasyev and Oleksiy Cherniy,
were also detained.

The Right Sector party is currently checking whether these people are among the
members of this party and denies involvement in plotting any terrorist attacks.

[Artem Skoropadskyy, captioned as the press secretary of the Right Sector, by
telephone in Russian] First, since the cells of the Right Sector in Crimea are
forced to work in semi-underground conditions, due to the occupation of Crimea
by the Kremlin, we are checking all these names regarding their connection to
the Right Sector. Second, the FSB statement that some representatives of the
Right Sector were plotting terrorist attacks is a sheer lie and Kremlin
propaganda. The Right Sector acts strictly according to the law of Ukraine. We
have repeatedly stated that the fight with separatism and terrorism in eastern
Ukraine is one thing and organizing terrorist attacks is a completely different
thing. The Right Sector has always been against organizing terrorist attacks, as
civilians could suffer from them.

Naturally, the Right Sector has absolutely nothing to do with organizing
terrorist attacks.

Source: 5 Kanal TV, Kiev, in Ukrainian 0900 gmt 30 May 14

LOAD-DATE: May 30, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2014 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              49 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring Middle East - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                              May 30, 2014 Friday

"Terrorist attack" claims two lives near Syrian capital

LENGTH: 105 words


Text of report in English by state-run Syrian news agency SANA website

Damascus Countryside, SANA, Terrorists mortar attack claimed the lives of two
citizens and injured nine others in Danoun Camp in al-Kisweh area in Damascus
countryside.

A source at the police command told SANA that a mortar shell fired by terrorists
fell on Danoun camp, claimed the lives of two citizens, including a 4 years old
child, and injured nine others who were admitted to hospitals for treatment.

The source added that the terrorists attack also caused material damage to the
site.

Source: SANA news agency website, Damascus, in English 1205 gmt 30 May 14

LOAD-DATE: May 30, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2014 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              50 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring Middle East - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                              May 30, 2014 Friday

"Terrorists" attack school in northeastern Syria

LENGTH: 71 words


Text of report in English by state-run Syrian news agency SANA website

Hasaka, SANA, Two terrorists threw a grenade on Zat al-Nitaqain School in
al-Nasera neighbourhood in Hasaka city on Thursday, causing material damage to
it with no human casualties.

A source at the Police Command told SANA that the two terrorists were masked and
driving a motorcycle.

Source: SANA news agency website, Damascus, in English 1425 gmt 29 May 14

LOAD-DATE: May 30, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2014 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              51 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                   MailOnline

                        May 30, 2014 Friday 11:21 PM GMT

Friend of Boston Marathon bombers who dined with them hours after terror attack
appears in court on charges of obstructing investigation and deleting evidence

BYLINE: ASSOCIATED PRESS REPORTER

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 622 words



     ·    Khairullozhon Matanov is accused of removing video of Tsarnaev
          brothers from his computer
     ·    23-year-old from Krygyzstan 'deleted files that contained calls to
          violence'


A 23-year-old who was friends with the brothers accused of carrying out the
Boston Marathon bombings last year has been accused of obstructing the
investigation.

Khairullozhon Matanov appeared in court on Friday just a few hours after he was
arrested in his Quincy apartment.

Matanov, who is accused of deleting information from his computer and lying to
investigators, entered no plea when he appeared in federal court.

The 23-year-old, who was made a legal resident of the U.S. because of unrest in
his home country of Krygyzstan, is being held until a detention hearing due to
take place Wednesday.

According to U.S. attorney Carmen Ortiz's office, he allegedly destroyed,
altered, and falsified records in a federal investigation, and made false
statements.

Among the information he deleted from his computer was references to videos and
photos of the bombing suspects that were released by the FBI, a photo of the MIT
police officer who authorities say the bombing suspects killed days after the
attack, and files that contained violent content or calls to violence.

Ortiz said in a news release that Matanov is not charged with participating in
the bombings or knowing about them in advance, but a spokeswoman declined to
comment when asked whether additional charges were possible against him.

Matanov knew Tamerlan and Dzhokhar Tsarnaev, who authorities say planted two
homemade bombs that killed three people and wounded more than 260 at the
marathon finish line last year.

He realized the FBI would want to talk with him because he shared their
'philosophical justification for violence', federal prosecutors said.

When Matanov spoke to federal investigators, he quickly dropped the pretense
that he and Tamerlan Tsarnaev had not seen each other much, but he continued to
downplay their friendship, an indictment alleges.

Matanov's lawyer, Edward Hayden, called the allegations unsubstantiated and said
his client looked forward to contesting the charges.

'He had no intent to mislead the FBI, and from what I can see, what he said and
did didn't impede the investigation,' Hayden said of his client.

Hayden said Matanov came to the U.S. in 2010 on a student visa and attended
college briefly. He was later granted political asylum because of unrest in
Kyrgyzstan.

He said Matanov left his parents and brothers behind and had no family in the
U.S.

'He's very frightened - very frightened,' Hayden said, adding that Matanov spoke
to investigators several times but never tried to slip away and was surprised
when authorities arrived to arrest him.

Matanov and Tamerlan Tsarnaev were friends who discussed religion and hiked up a
mountain in New Hampshire in order to praise and emulate the training of the
mujahedeen, the indictment said.

Just 40 minutes after the bombing, Matanov called Tamerlan and invited him to
dinner, prosecutors said. That night, the Tsarnaev brothers dined with Matanov.

Afterwards, prosecutors said, Matanov told an unnamed witness that he could
support the bombings for a 'just reason' - for example, if they were done in the
name of Islam.

'In the days following the bombings, Matanov continued to express support for
the bombings, although later that week he said that maybe the bombings were
wrong,' the indictment said.

Prosecutors said Matanov asked a friend to destroy his cellphones after the
Tsarnaevs were identified as suspects, but that friend refused.

Dzhokhar Tsarnaev, 20, has pleaded not guilty to 30 federal charges and is
awaiting trial. Tamerlan Tsarnaev, 26, was killed during a gunbattle with police
days after the bombings.

LOAD-DATE: May 30, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDM


                   Copyright 2014 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              52 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                   MailOnline

                        May 30, 2014 Friday 11:06 PM GMT

Friend of Boston Marathon bombers who dined with them hours after terror attack
appears in court on charges of obstructing investigation and deleting evidence

BYLINE: ASSOCIATED PRESS REPORTER

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 592 words


A 23-year-old who was friends with the brothers accused of carrying out the
Boston Marathon bombings has been accused of obstructing the investigation.

Khairullozhon Matanov appeared in court on Friday just a few hours after he was
arrested in his Quincy apartment.

Matanov, who is accused of deleting information from his computer and lying to
investigators, entered no plea when he appeared in federal court.

The 23-year-old, who was made a legal resident of the U.S. because of unrest in
his home country of Krygyzstan, is being held until a detention hearing due to
take place Wednesday.

According to U.S. attorney Carmen Ortiz's office, he allegedly destroyed,
altered, and falsified records in a federal investigation, and made false
statements.

Among the information he deleted from his computer was references to videos and
photos of the bombing suspects that were released by the FBI, a photo of the MIT
police officer who authorities say the bombing suspects killed days after the
attack, and files that contained violent content or calls to violence.

Ortiz said in a news release that Matanov is not charged with participating in
the bombings or knowing about them in advance, but a spokeswoman declined to
comment when asked whether additional charges were possible against him.

Matanov knew Tamerlan and Dzhokhar Tsarnaev, who authorities say planted two
homemade bombs that killed three people and wounded more than 260 at the
marathon finish line last year.

He realized the FBI would want to talk with him because he shared their
'philosophical justification for violence', federal prosecutors said.

When Matanov spoke to federal investigators, he quickly dropped the pretense
that he and Tamerlan Tsarnaev had not seen each other much, but he continued to
downplay their friendship, an indictment alleges.

Matanov's lawyer, Edward Hayden, called the allegations unsubstantiated and said
his client looked forward to contesting the charges.

'He had no intent to mislead the FBI, and from what I can see, what he said and
did didn't impede the investigation,' Hayden said of his client.

Hayden said Matanov came to the U.S. in 2010 on a student visa and attended
college briefly. He was later granted political asylum because of unrest in
Kyrgyzstan.

He said Matanov left his parents and brothers behind and had no family in the
U.S.

'He's very frightened - very frightened,' Hayden said, adding that Matanov spoke
to investigators several times but never tried to slip away and was surprised
when authorities arrived to arrest him.

Matanov and Tamerlan Tsarnaev were friends who discussed religion and hiked up a
mountain in New Hampshire in order to praise and emulate the training of the
mujahedeen, the indictment said.

Just 40 minutes after the bombing, Matanov called Tamerlan and invited him to
dinner, prosecutors said. That night, the Tsarnaev brothers dined with Matanov.

Afterwards, prosecutors said, Matanov told an unnamed witness that he could
support the bombings for a 'just reason' - for example, if they were done in the
name of Islam.

'In the days following the bombings, Matanov continued to express support for
the bombings, although later that week he said that maybe the bombings were
wrong,' the indictment said.

Prosecutors said Matanov asked a friend to destroy his cellphones after the
Tsarnaevs were identified as suspects, but that friend refused.

Dzhokhar Tsarnaev, 20, has pleaded not guilty to 30 federal charges and is
awaiting trial. Tamerlan Tsarnaev, 26, was killed during a gunbattle with police
days after the bombings.

LOAD-DATE: May 30, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDM


                   Copyright 2014 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              53 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                 Yorkshire Post

                              May 30, 2014 Friday

Staff save lives in terror bomb attack on hotel

LENGTH: 496  words


THE COURAGEOUS efforts of staff to evacuate a Londonderry hotel before a
dissident republican fire bomb burst into flames saved the lives of many guests,
police have said.

A masked man abandoned a holdall containing the incendiary device at the
Everglades Hotel late on Thursday night. A short time later it ignited into a
fireball as an Army bomb disposal officer was trying to make it safe. No one was
injured in the attack but the reception area of the hotel, which is in the
Prehen area of Derry, was extensively damaged.

Police Service of Northern Ireland (PSNI) Chief Superintendent Stephen Cargin
said if the hotel had not been properly evacuated by the time the blaze took
hold lives would have been lost.

"The hotel did a fabulous job evacuating people," he said. "I have no doubt they
saved the lives of many of their residents."

One potential reason the hotel was targeted by republican extremists opposed to
the peace process was because it has previously hosted PSNI recruitment events.

Hotel owner Sir William Hastings said: "It is extremely sad that the
professional staff and management of the Everglades Hotel have had to deal with
such a traumatic experience."

He praised them for "acting so quickly and professionally to avert a major
atrocity".

"This has caused real damage to the prosperity of the city from both a
commercial and tourism point of view," Sir William added.

"The main loser here is the city of Derry/Londonderry, a city which does not
deserve this after the excellent work in attracting more and more visitors in
recent years.

"This despicable action has the potential to damage the tourism industry in
Derry/Londonderry but with my experience of the people in the city and their
resolve I am confident this will not deflect them from their efforts to help
continue to take the city forward."

Staff were working hard to ensure the hotel was business for business this
morning.

In another show of defiance against the extremists, Sunday's Walled City
Marathon, which is due to start from the hotel, is set to go ahead as planned.
City native and Stormont's Sinn Fein Deputy First Minister Martin McGuinness
tweeted his condemnation.

"Derry is a place looking to the future & will not be held back by those living
in the past," he wrote. "Their attack on the Everglades must be condemned."

Derry's mayor councillor Martin Reilly said the attack was against the whole
city.

"This was a very cowardly attack that will not deter us from promoting our city
as a tourist destination," he said.

Northern Ireland's new chief constable in-waiting has vowed to bring to justice
those behind the fire bomb.

George Hamilton, who was this week appointed to succeed Matt Baggott in the high
profile role, said the perpetrators had no regard for Northern Ireland or its
citizens.

"I think the fact it has happened indicates some of the challenges that face
us," he said.

"These are people who are opposed to peace, they are people who are trying to
use violence," he said.

LOAD-DATE: May 31, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: NLYP


                       Copyright 2014 Johnston Press Plc
                              All Rights Reserved

                              54 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                    BBC Monitoring Asia Pacific - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                             May 31, 2014 Saturday

Eight suspects indicted over Tiananmen terror attack - Xinhua

LENGTH: 190 words


Text of report in English by official Chinese news agency Xinhua (New China News
Agency)

Urumqi, 30 May: Eight suspects were indicted Friday for their roles in a
terrorist attack at Beijing's Tiananmen Square in October, said local
procuratorate in west China's Xinjiang Uygur Autonomous Region.

People's Procuratorate of Urumqi, capital of Xinjiang, accused the eight of
organizing, leading and participating a terrorist group and endangering public
security with dangerous method, confirmed People's Procuratorate of Xinjiang
Uygur Autonomous Region.

The eight are to stand trial at the Urumqi Intermediate People's Court.

Usmen Hasan, his mother Kuwanhan Reyim, and his wife Gulkiz Gini, drove a jeep
to crash into a crowd of people near the Jinshui Bridge across the moat of the
Forbidden City on Oct. 28 last year, leaving two dead and 40 injured.

The jeep finally crashed into a guardrail of Jinshui Bridge and the three people
in the jeep died after they set gasoline inside the vehicle on fire.

A total of eight suspects were captured in connection with the terrorist attack.

Source: Xinhua news agency, Beijing, in English 1612gmt 30 May 14

LOAD-DATE: May 31, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2014 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              55 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                   MailOnline

                       May 31, 2014 Saturday 5:01 AM GMT

China indicts 8 over terrorist attack in Beijing

BYLINE: ASSOCIATED PRESS

SECTION: AP

LENGTH: 369 words


BEIJING (AP) - China has indicted eight people on terrorism charges in
connection with an attack on Beijing's iconic Tiananmen Gate last year that
killed two tourists and three assailants, the government said Saturday.

The eight were arrested within days of the October 28 attack, in which a man
drove an SUV through a crowd of tourists before stopping in front of the gate
and setting the vehicle on fire. A Chinese visitor and a tourist from the
Philippines were killed, along with the vehicles driver, his wife and
mother-in-law, according to Chinese authorities.

The attack was the first to strike Beijing in recent memory. It pointed to a new
level of violence and lethal intent in the long simmering insurgency against
Chinese rule in the far northwestern region of Xinjiang waged by radicals among
the native Turkic Uighur Muslim population.

Notice of the indictments posted on the Xinjiang regional prosecutor's website
said the eight would stand trial at the intermediate court in Xinjiang's capital
Urumqi. They were accused of organizing, leading and participating in a
terrorist organization as well as endangering public security. The charges are
punishable with a maximum penalty of death.

On Tuesday, authorities said police in southwestern Xinjiang foiled a bomb plot
and arrested five people. The government says more than 200 people have been
detained this month in Xinjiang and 23 extremist groups broken up, though it has
released no details about them.

The Tiananmen Gate attack has been followed by similar incidents in Xinjiang,
including one last Thursday in which men driving off-road vehicles and throwing
explosives plowed through a crowded market in Urumqi, killing 39 people. Police
said four suspects were killed at the scene and a fifth was caught Thursday
evening in an area about 250 kilometers (150 miles) south of Urumqi.

Beijing says unrest among Uighurs is caused by extremist groups with ties to
Islamic terror groups abroad, but has shown little direct evidence.

Uighur activists say public resentment against Beijing is fueled by an influx of
settlers from China's Han ethnic majority, economic disenfranchisement and
onerous restrictions on Uighur religious and cultural practices.

LOAD-DATE: May 31, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDM


                   Copyright 2014 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              56 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                  mirror.co.uk

                       May 31, 2014 Saturday 11:19 PM GMT

Edward Snowden leaks have left Britain 'wide open' to terrorist attack warn spy
chiefs;
The turncoat has given away so much about how our GCHQ eavesdroppers gather
intelligence on Islamist killers they have been able to change their methods

BYLINE: By Nigel Nelson

SECTION: NEWS,UK NEWS

LENGTH: 710 words


Whistleblower Edward Snowden has left Britain wide open to attacks by ­al-Qaeda
terrorists, reports the Sunday People.

The              turncoathas given away so much about how our GCHQ eavesdroppers
gather intelligence on Islamist killers they have been able to change their
methods.

Spy chiefs warned last year of the damage the American might do - but ministers
fear it will be even worse than first thought.

A senior Whitehall source told the Sunday People: "Parts of the radar have gone
dark and that is very worrying.

"Snowden has ­committed the worst kind of treachery."

The former US intelligence official is now stranded in Moscow as a fugitive
after America took away his passport.

Government sources in Britain say MI5 and MI6 have lost their digital advantage
which allowed them to detect and foil terror plots.

Spy-masters have successfully thwarted 34 planned Islamist strikes against the
UK since suicide bombers killed 52 people              in the 7/7 blitz on
London commuters in 2005.

But they are now combating threats from Syria and Yemen as well as Pakistan.

And they insist they need to keep on top of internet chatter.

In the past, GCHQ agents could listen in as terrorists used email, in-game
communication, social networking and chat-rooms to communicate.

By analysing their propaganda, travel arrangements, money movements and attempts
to ­radicalise individuals, Britain's spooks were able to build up a picture of
their activities.

But Snowden, 30, wrecked all that by giving the game away over how it was done.

MI6 chief Sir John Sawers told the House of Commons' ­intelligence and Security
Committee: "The terrorists are rubbing their hands with glee."

And GCHQ's ­director Sir Iain Lobban said Snowden's revelations had
allowed terroriststo change their ­encryptions - and hide their communications
all over again.

British eavesdroppers even overheard one Middle East group discussing details
disclosed by the ­whistleblower.

Snowden was a £170,000-a-year systems ­administrator with the CIA and the
National Security Agency ­before he skipped with 1.7million documents and leaked
them to the media.

They showed the US harvested data on inter- national phone calls and even
snooped on foreign leaders.

Snowden said the UK was monitoring communications on a vast scale and claimed
intelligence agencies were able to ­"listen" to millions of personal internet
messages by using GCHQ's Tempora programme.

In an interview last week, Snowden was adamant that exposing the snoops'
­activities was in the best interests of the American people.

But US Secretary of State John Kerry said if the fugitive believed that, he
should return to America.

Mr Kerry added: "Let him come back and make his case.

"If he cares so much about America and he believes in America, he should trust
the American system of justice."

Snowden says America used the 9/11 twin-towers massacre in New York as an excuse
to spy on ordinary people.

And he insists that is why he carried out the biggest intelligence theft in US
history.

In a four-hour interview with US network NBC at a Moscow hotel he said: "The
government exploits the national trauma we all ­suffered to ­justify programmes
that have never been shown to keep us safe but cost us liberties and freedoms."

And in a bid to excuse himself even more he added: "What is right is not the
same as what is legal.

"Sometimes to do the right thing you have to break a law."

Snowden handed over the classified documents to journalists at a meeting in Hong
Kong in May last year.

He said at the time: "I can't in good conscience              allow the US
government to destroy privacy, internet freedom and basic libertieswith this
massive surveillance machine they are secretly building."

A month later the US Department of Justice charged him with theft of government
property and two ­offences under the Espionage Act. If convicted he faces up to
30 years in prison.

He flew to Moscow hoping to get a connection to South America via Cuba. But
without a passport he was stuck in Russia.

Snowden applied for asylum to 21 countries before Russia granted him a renewable
one-year's asylum last August.

The Guardian won a Pulitzer prize for publishing his revelations. And students
in Glasgow made Snowden rector of their university.

LOAD-DATE: September 1, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDMI


                      Copyright 2014 Trinity Mirror, Plc.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              57 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring Middle East - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                              June 1, 2014 Sunday

Terrorist group attacks gas pipeline in Syria's Homs countryside

LENGTH: 118 words


Text of report in English by state-run Syrian news agency SANA website

Damascus - An armed terrorist group attacked on Sunday a gas pipeline between
Al-Shamer Mountain power plant and Ebla Gas Factory in Homs countryside.

Minister of Petroleum and Mineral Resources, Sulayman Abbas, told SANA that
terrorists attacked the gas pipeline and detonated it.

The minister pointed out that maintenance workshops headed to the area
immediately to repair the pipeline have it back to service.

Last week, armed terrorist groups attacked two gas pipelines in Palmyra city
causing al-Baiarat Power Plant and Dayr al-Zawr Gas Factory to go out of
service.

Source: SANA news agency website, Damascus, in English 1105 gmt 1 Jun 14

LOAD-DATE: June 1, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2014 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              58 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                            Global Capital Asiamoney

                                   June 2014

Kenya shrugs off terrorist attacks to make $2bn debut

BYLINE: Steven Gilmore

SECTION: KENYA,AFRICA,CEEMEA

LENGTH: 604  words



HIGHLIGHT: The Republic of Kenya ploughed ahead with a dual tranche debut
Eurobond on Monday despite terrorist attacks in coastal Mpeketoni on Sunday and
Monday nights. But investors still flocked to place over $8bn in orders,
allowing Kenya to price a colossal $2bn for its inaugural offering.


Debt bankers on the bond considered whether or not to push ahead with the deal
on Monday morning. But international accounts were already aware of the threat
of terrorism in Kenya, and as the underlying demand remained strong they opted
to continue, said one. In the end the headlines had no effect on appetite, and
Kenya printed the joint largest sovereign bond ever from sub-Saharan Africa.

"The sovereign got the size, pricing and performance it wanted and the result
just confirms the real depth and quality of the bid for single-B African
issuance," said John Wright, European syndicate official at Barclays in London.

Leads Barclays, JP Morgan, Standard Bank and Qatar National Bank Invest set
initial price guidance on the sovereign's five and 10 year bonds in the low 6%
and 7% yield area, respectively. They priced the $500m five year and $1.5bn 10
year tranches at 5.875% and 6.875% respectively, having decided against pushing
the pricing further.

Both tranches were priced at par, and the 10 year bond was bid at a cash price
of 102 on Thursday and the five note at 101.375. But this had to be seen in the
context of a market hungrily chasing fresh paper, said leads. Some bankers away
from the deal had expected a tighter finish on the 10 year, but the final price
was determined by clear feedback from accounts, said the leads.

There was a strong consensus from investors on a 7% start for initial price
thoughts, said one, and despite the large order book a 6.75% finish would have
been too aggressive a price move.

"We had real money institutional accounts explicitly saying they were willing to
be in for a certain amount at 7%, a bit less at 6.875% but at 6.75% they were
out," said the debt banker. "When you get that type of feedback, the response
isn't to test them. We had very clear push back."


Zambia examined

Nor could the leads have started execution any tighter. The vast majority of
accounts used Zambia as the most relevant price comparable. Some argued that as
Kenya was planning on a large debut print, it should price wide of Zambia, and
others felt that Kenya's superior credit story meant it should price inside.
Either way, Zambia's trading levels anchored initial price thoughts.

A banker away from the deal had Zambia's 2024 bonds trading at 6.98% when Kenya
opened books, although the banker on the Kenya debut saw them trading in the low
7% area. He felt that the low 7% area for Kenya's initial price thoughts was at
or even inside Zambia's secondary levels, and added that a new Zambia 10 year
would have been priced around 7.25%.

"The overwhelming feedback was for a low 7% start for the 10 year," he said.

Roadshow feedback had also pointed towards a 10 year deal, as accounts were
eager for duration, the banker said. But Kenya had always wanted $1.5bn-$2bn for
its inaugural issue, and accounts were adamant that no one bond should be too
large, he added. But even so, the sheer size of the Kenyan debut was impressive.

"Towards the end of last year Nigeria split a deal into five and 10 year bonds
to get $1bn from the market, and Zambia's $1bn 10 year deal in April was
considered large," said another debt banker on the deal. "Just look at where the
market is now."

Kenya's deal will also be welcome among prospective Kenyan borrowers eyeing
their own international debuts.

"It's tough to say anything hard on timing," said the banker. "But the sovereign
clearly paves the way for corporate and financial issuers. The $8bn book shows
the depth of demand for the credit story, and having clarity in five and 10
years from the sovereign means issuers will waste less time on price discovery."

LOAD-DATE: January 20, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Magazine

JOURNAL-CODE: ASIAM


              Copyright 2014 Euromoney Institutional Investor PLC
                              All Rights Reserved

                              59 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                            Global Capital Asiamoney

                                   June 2014

Kenya shrugs off terrorist attacks to make $2bn debut

BYLINE: Steven Gilmore

SECTION: KENYA,ZAMBIA,NIGERIA,AFRICA CEEMEA

LENGTH: 534  words



HIGHLIGHT: The Republic of Kenya ploughed ahead with a dual tranche debut
Eurobond on Monday despite terrorist attacks in coastal Mpeketoni on Sunday and
Monday nights. The headlines had only a marginal effect on market sentiment and
Kenya drew well over $8bn of orders for its $2bn bond transaction.


"After the events on Sunday we considered whether or not to push ahead with the
deal," said a syndicate banker on Kenya's inaugural transaction. "But
unfortunately the threat of terrorism in Kenya isn't something that goes away
and it's something the international community is aware of. Ultimately the
market backdrop was a bit softer, but the underlying strength was still there
and so we went ahead."

Leads Barclays, JP Morgan, Standard Bank and Qatar National Bank Invest set
initial price guidance on the sovereign's five and 10 year bonds in the low 6%
and 7% yield area. They priced the $500m five year and $1.5bn 10 year tranches
at 5.875% and 6.875% respectively, having decided against pushing the pricing
further.

On the basis of the 10 year's initial price thoughts, a banker away from the
deal said he expected a 6.625%-6.75% finish, and both tranches were a full cash
point higher in the secondary market on Tuesday morning. But syndicate officials
on the bond said there was a strong consensus from investors on a 7% start for
initial price thoughts, and despite the larger order book a 6.75% finish would
have been too aggressive a price move.

"We had real money institutional accounts explicitly saying that were willing to
be in for a certain amount at 7%, a bit less at 6.875% and at 6.75% they were
out," said the debt banker. "When you get that type of feedback the response
isn't to test them. We had very clear push back."

A 6.75% finish would have also meant a 50bp revision during guidance, which
would have attracted accusations of the leads taking a bait and switch approach
to execution, he added. Nor could the leads have started execution any tighter.
The vast majority of accounts used Zambia as the most relevant price comparable.
Some argued that as Kenya was planning on large debut print it should price wide
of Zambia, and others felt that Kenya's superior credit story meant it should
price inside. Either way Zambia's trading levels anchored initial price
thoughts.

A banker away from the deal had Zambia's 2024 bonds trading at 6.98% when Kenya
opened books, although the banker on the Kenya debut saw them trading in the low
7% area. He felt that the low 7% area for Kenya's initial price thoughts was at
or even inside Zambia's secondary levels, and added that a new Zambia 10 year
would have been priced around 7.25%.

"The overwhelming feedback was for a low 7% start for the 10 year," he said.

Roadshow feedback had also pointed towards a 10 year deal, as accounts were
eager for duration, the banker said. But Kenya had always wanted $1.5bn-$2bn for
its inaugural, and accounts were adamant that no one bond should be too large,
he added.

"That left the issuer with options as to how to split the deal," he said. "The
larger size for the 10 year tranche was just a function of more demand for that
tenor."

Another bank on the deal pointed out that late last year Nigeria had to split a
deal into five and 10 year bonds to get $1bn from the market.

"Just look at there the market is now," he said. "This is the joint largest deal
ever from sub-Saharan Africa and the largest sovereign deal ever aside from
South Africa. It just shows the real depth of demand for Africa risk."

LOAD-DATE: January 20, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Magazine

JOURNAL-CODE: ASIAM


              Copyright 2014 Euromoney Institutional Investor PLC
                              All Rights Reserved

                              60 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                            Global Capital Asiamoney

                                   June 2014

Kenya guides to low 6s and 7s as more terrorist attacks hit

BYLINE: Francesca Young

SECTION: KENYA,ZAMBIA,NIGERIA,AFRICA

LENGTH: 538  words



HIGHLIGHT: Kenya has released initial price thoughts of low 6% yield area for a
five year benchmark bond and low 7% for a 10 year. But terrorism this year in
the country, the most recent bout in hotels in coastal Mpeketoni on Sunday
night, is likely to impact tourism which accounted for around 12% of the
country's GDP in 2013, and investors are already cautious around the country's
large current account deficit.


"The guidance looks about right," said one origination official away from the
note. "On Friday Zambia's 2024s were trading around 6.98%, and with the weakness
today they're now north of 7%. I'd expect the Kenya 10 year to end up around
6.625%-6.75% and because 5s/10s curves for Nigeria and Ghana are quite flat, the
Kenya five year will probably only be slightly inside that."

A US investor agreed that 50bp-100bp back of Zambia seemed fair.

But a syndicate official away from the deal said he thought the IPTs looked
cheap.

"I assume they're looking for a lot of money," he said. "It looks about right if
they want $2bn, but a bit generous if they're only after $1bn. My sense is that
they must have stuck wide guidance out there to build a big book and then
hopefully tighten from there."

The only guidance on size from lead managersBarclays, JP Morgan, Standard Bank
and QNB Invest, who were mandated at the end of 2013,so far is that the both
tranches will be benchmark sized.

Though there are no perfect comparables as the deal is a debut for Kenya. The
syndicate banker off the deal saw Nigeria as the closest one, though he said
Kenya should trade wider. Nigeria's 2023s are trading around 280bp over
mid-swaps and he expected 350bp over swaps pricing for a new Kenya 10 year,
which equates to around a yield of 6.2%.

"Even with a big size, I can still see eventually pricing ending up inside 7%,"
he said.

Both bankers away from the deal said that the terrorist attacks in Lamu on
Sunday evening should have little effect on pricing if the appetite built on
Kenya's roadshow last week was strong.

There have been a number other terrorist attacks in the last year from Islamist
terrorists. In March a pair of explosions killed six people in the Eastleigh
area of Nairobi and in April a car exploded at the Pangani police station in the
city killing four, with a second explosives laden vehicle found abandoned close
by. Then in May, there were attacks in the coastal city of Mombasa "" an
important port and hub for the coastal region which relies upon tourism for much
of its income.

Those attacks follow the Westgate shopping centre massacre in September 2013
although there have been attacks dating back to 2011 when Kenya sent its troops
into neighbouring Somalia to try and assist in bringing some form of order to
the country.

Even though investors seem to have accepted these risks they rare also mindful
of what one called "horrible metrics", including a large current account deficit
in the country. The IMF expects Kenya's current account deficit to narrow to
7.7% of GDP by June 2015, the end of the next fiscal year, from 8.3% this fiscal
year.

"Even under the best possible scenario, they will remain insolvent and cannot
pay principal nor interest without borrowing further for a long time," said one
US based investor."They need more than coffee and tea to create jobs and tax
revenues, but with the shilling so strong it would be difficult."

But the investor did add that because of the diversity Kenya offers investors,
demand is still likely to be good.

"Technically this bond will likely do well, but I'd be cautious to hold given
the current acocunt deficit and fiscal imbalances," he said.

Kenya is rated B+/B1/B+.

LOAD-DATE: January 20, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Magazine

JOURNAL-CODE: ASIAM


              Copyright 2014 Euromoney Institutional Investor PLC
                              All Rights Reserved

                              61 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                               Belfast Telegraph

                              June 2, 2014 Monday
                                   Edition 1;

Runners remain defiant despite terror attack on eve of event

BYLINE: DONNA DEENEY

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 400 words


MORE than a thousand runners defied the terrorists who bombed a hotel acting as
the starting line for the Walled City Marathon yesterday.

Just three days after dissident republicans detonated an explosion in the
Everglades, the hotel was on its feet - just like the 1,500 runners lined up for
the race.

The official starter was deputy First Minister Martin McGuinness, who tweeted a
'selfie' of himself with the runners lined up behind him.

He described it as a "brilliant charity event" and then posted another photo of
his soon-to-be daughter-in-law Katie's medal for completing the event.

The marathon was eventually won by Belfast Marathon winner and race favourite,
Kenyan star Freddy Sittuk. He won in a time of 2 hours 25 minutes 47 seconds -
beating last year's winning time by five minutes.

But the local runners did Londonderry proud too, with Inishowen's Pauric
McKinney in second and City of Derry's James Crampsie third. Anne Curley won the
women's race. The marathon was first held last year to mark the City of Culture
status but such was the demand that organisers agreed to stage the event once
again.

Thousands of spectators once again lined the route shouting encouragement as the
runners past by. One of the organisers, Gerry Lynch, said they resisted sending
runners up or down Shipquay Street, the city's steepest street.

He said: "It would have been just as cruel to send the runners down Shipquay
Street to the finish line because towards the end of the marathon the runners'
legs would have been screaming for mercy even along the flat."

"  Among those who apparently did not get enough punishment in last year's event
was Foyle MLA Mark H Durkan. He was back again finding it hard to hide his 6ft
5in frame amongst the throng of runners, finishing in 3 hrs 32 mins.

Pounding his way along the gruelling 26.2-mile challenge in his size 12
trainers, he said this was the best way to show the world the real Derry. He
explained: "After the bomb attack at the Everglades Hotel, there was no better
way for the people of this fantastic city to send a strong message to the
cowards behind the attack that this is the real Derry.

"The marathon is one of the events from the City of Culture year that will have
the greatest legacy, especially when you see how many people are out enjoying
running and when you see the number of entrants in this year's marathon."

Hotel back in business, Page 16

LOAD-DATE: June 2, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: BTT


                Copyright 2014 Belfast Telegraph Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              62 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                                  Daily Mirror

                              June 2, 2014 Monday
                                   Edition 1;
                                Northern Ireland

Hiker terror at attack by vicious cow

BYLINE: VICKY SMITH

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 22

LENGTH: 119 words


A WALKER trampled by a cow feared the violent animal would kill her.

Abby Colmer, 37, was attacked when she turned to avoid eye contact with a
"stroppy cow" in a small herd with calves.

She said: "I felt something slam into my back. I was winded and went down. It
was ramming me with its head and putting all its weight on to me.

"Six of my ribs were broken. It was terrifying. I thought I was going to die."

Photographer Abby, of Brighton who also suffered a punctured lung, was saved by
a passing couple at Devil's Dyke on the South Downs and airlifted to hospital.

It is understood the cow has been destroyed. About 60 attacks by cows are
reported each year and the National Farmers' Union has issued tips for walkers.

LOAD-DATE: June 2, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: BROKEN RIBS Abby Colmer

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DMR


                            Copyright 2014 MGN Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              63 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                                  News Shopper

                              June 2, 2014 Monday

Crow attack terror returns to Eltham after jogger savaged by bird

BYLINE: Mark Chandler

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 556 words


A jogger has been savaged by a crow while running through an Eltham park -
sparking fears of a fresh wave of bird attacks.

Eltham Park South achieved national fame in 2010 after News Shopper revealed how
an angry crow with a taste for blondes was picking off fair-haired female
joggers.

Until this month, locals had assumed the danger had passed, with no recorded
incidents for four years - even in the spring when crows can get protective over
their young.

Sarah Green - the latest victim

But all that has changed after Sarah Green was chased around the park on May 26,
with reports that an elderly woman has also fallen victim to her taloned
tormentor.

Ms Green, 35, of Castlewood Drive, said: "It swooped down very fast, landed on
my head and started pecking away.

"It was the shock of it. It felt quite big and strong. I was shaking my head and
flapping my arms and trying to get it off me. It had its claws in my hair. It
was quite hard to shake it off."

Sinister - the crow

Ms Green, who was jogging to train for the Tough Mudder endurance race, admitted
nothing had prepared her for the experience on May 26 as the crow then came at
her a second time "harder and faster", tearing away the bobble holding her hair
in place.

She said: "I saw a guy with a dog and ran over to him for a bit of safety in
numbers.  Luckily, as I moved away from the tree it didn't pursue me a third
time.

"The man told me 'you're not the first and you won't be the last'."

Ms Green was not injured by the crow but, on returning home, searched for other
attacks online - and was astonished to discover News Shopper's previous story
detailing similar attacks at the same spot.

She said: "It's certainly put me off running around the park. I think I'm going
to stick to the roads for a wee while."

"Crows just don't like me"

Fellow crow attack victim Edna Lunt, who was attacked in her Catford garden back
in 2010, has warned the mental scars can take longer to heal.

Edna Lunt recreates the Catford crow attack in 2010

The 81-year-old dancer said: "The crows are still here. There are three of them.
My man friend, he always says to me 'they're your mates'.

"But they're not. I don't know why it is but they just don't like me. They come
down and caw at me. We reckon it's because of my blonde hair."

She added: "Sometimes when I go out the front door they start squawking at me.
Now when I open the door and they're out there I shut it again quickly.

"Once you've been attacked it really puts you off."

"You'll never find him"

"He lives over there," said an Eltham cafe worker, pointing towards a clump of
trees before shouting after me: "You'll never find him. You're not a woman - and
you're not blonde."

News Shopper asked the question on everyone's lips in 2010

Last Friday I waited for several hours to see Eltham's notorious crow in action
but he failed to swoop, despite rumours an elderly woman had also just been
attacked.

I even attempted to lure him down by doing a few light jogs around the trees.
But he just stayed in the branches - eyeing me suspiciously.

Other joggers stayed warily away, keeping to the other paths, presumably warned
in advance that Eltham's most dangerous predator had returned.

I sat down on the nearest bench and the crow landed on some fencing behind me,
cawing menacingly before flying off across the park, perhaps searching for
another victim.

LOAD-DATE: June 2, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2014 NewsQuest Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              64 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                   MailOnline

                       June 3, 2014 Tuesday 10:05 PM GMT

Obama defends trading five Taliban for captive soldier - but admits freed
terrorists COULD still attack the US

BYLINE: JAMES RUSH and FRANCESCA CHAMBERS

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 1065 words



     ·    It's 'absolutely' possible the prisoners the U.S. released form
          Guantanamo Bay could rejoin terrorist cells, President Barack Obama
          said today
     ·    But the U.S. has an obligation to not leave soldiers behind, he said
     ·    'I wouldn't be doing it if I thought that it was contrary to American
          national security,' he told reporters at a press conference in Warsaw,
          Poland
     ·    Obama suggested that he did not violate federal law by making the
          trade without congressional approval because his administration
          consulted with Congress 'for some time' about the possibility
     ·    He also brushed aside questions about Bergdahl's capture by insurgents
          in 2009, saying the circumstances of his departure from base are
          irrelevant


President Barack Obama defended his decision to release five detainees from
Guantanamo Bay in exchange for U.S. Army Sgt. Bowe Bergdahl today, saying the
country had an obligation to not leave its military personnel behind.

'Is there a possibility of some of them trying to return to activities that are
detrimental to us? Absolutely,' Obama said during today's press conference of
the recently released detainees.'That's been true of all the prisoners that were
released from Guantanamo. There's a certain recidivism rate that takes place.'

But the president added, 'I wouldn't be doing it if I thought that it was
contrary to American national security.'

Scroll Down for Video

Obama brushed aside questions today about how Sgt. Bergdahl -  a suspected
deserter - was captured in 2009.

The Pentagon concluded in 2010 that Bergdahl walked away from his unit, and,
after an initial flurry of searching, the military curbed any high-risk rescue
plans.

'Regardless of the circumstances, whatever those circumstances may turn out to
be, we still get an American solider back if he's held in captivity,' Obama
said. 'We don't condition that.'

Questions have also mounted at home over the way Bergdahl's freedom was secured:
Five high-level members of the Taliban were released from the U.S. prison in
Guantanamo Bay, Cuba, and sent to Qatar.

The five, who will have to stay in Qatar for a year before going back to
Afghanistan, include former ministers in the Taliban government, commanders and
one man who had direct ties to the late al-Qaida chief Osama bin Laden.

Republicans in Congress criticized the agreement and complained about not having
been consulted about the terms of Bergdahl's release.

They say that by unilaterally negotiating the term's of Bergdahl's release, the
President broke a federal law that requires him to notify members of Congress 30
days before releasing anyone from Guantanamo Bay.

Members of the House Armed Services Committee said the Pentagon notified the
panel by phone on Saturday that the exchange was occurring in the next five
hours.

Obama said Tuesday that lawmakers were aware that the U.S. could agree to a
prisoner swap with the Taliban 'for quite some time,' and he defended how his
administration handled the formal notifications, saying that when the
opportunity to free Bergdahl presented itself, 'We seized that opportunity.'

That's not true, House Intelligence Committee Chairman Mike Rogers said this
morning after Obama's news conference.

'I don't know what he means by consulted Congress for some time,' Rogers told
MSNBC. 'In 2011, they did come up and present a plan that included a prisoner
transfer that was, in a bipartisan way, pushed back. We hadn't heard anything
since on any details of any prisoner exchange.'

Officials said delaying Bergdahl's transfer in order to comply with the
congressional notification rules would have interfered with two of the
president's constitutional authorities: protecting the lives of Americans abroad
and protecting U.S. soldiers.

'Because such interference would significantly alter the balance between
Congress and the president, and could even raise constitutional concerns, we
believe it is fair to conclude that Congress did not intend that the
administration would be barred from taking the action it did in these
circumstances,' National Security Council spokeswoman Caitlin Hayden said in a
statement released shortly after Obama's news conference.

Obama has previously expressed concern about the congressional notification
requirement, which was passed as part of the 2014 defense bill.

In a statement that accompanied his signing of that legislation, he said the
executive branch must have flexibility 'to act swiftly in conducting
negotiations with foreign countries regarding the circumstances of detainee
transfers.'

The U.S. and the Taliban negotiated the prisoner exchange indirectly, with the
government of Qatar serving as an intermediary.

The five Afghan prisoners are now in Qatar and are banned from travelling
outside the country for a minimum of one year.

Republicans have also criticised the Obama administration actions as
capitulating to terrorists.

Former secretary of state Hillary Clinton however gave a measured defence
yesterday of the Obama's administration decision to swap the detainees for Sgt.
Bergdahl, noting many of America's allies make similar deals.

Clinton said she did not second-guess people who make such tough decisions and
added the American tradition of caring for its citizens and soldiers was a
'noble' one when she was asked about the exchange at an event in Denver.

'This young man, whatever the circumstances, was an American citizen - is an
American citizen - was serving in our military,' Clinton said. 'The idea that
you really care for your own citizens and particularly those in uniform, I think
is a very noble one.'

Clinton said the most important thing will be to get as much information as
possible from Bergdahl about his time in captivity, saying he could be a
valuable intelligence asset and shed light on the Taliban's workings.

Days after his rescue, Bergdahl, 28, is reportedly in stable condition at a U.S.
military hospital in Germany. It is unknown when he will return to the U.S., but
when he does, he will most likely be sent to Brooke Army Medical Center in San
Antoni, Texas, a Department of Defense official told CNN.

'The recovery and reintegration of Bowe Bergdahl is a work in progress,'
Bergdahl's father, Bob, said on Sunday at a press conference in Boise, Idaho.

'It isn't over for us. In many ways. It's just beginning for Jani, [Bowe's
mother] and I, and our family. There's a long process here.' he said

LOAD-DATE: June 3, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDM


                   Copyright 2014 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              65 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                   MailOnline

                        June 3, 2014 Tuesday 2:54 PM GMT

Obama defends trading five Taliban leaders for Bowe Bergdahl - but admits the
freed terrorists could attack the US again

BYLINE: JAMES RUSH and FRANCESCA CHAMBERS

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 988 words



     ·    It's 'absolutely' possible the prisoners the U.S. released form
          Guantanamo Bay could rejoin terrorist cells, President Barack Obama
          said today
     ·    But the U.S. has an obligation to not leave soldiers behind, he said
     ·    'I wouldn't be doing it if I thought that it was contrary to American
          national security,' he told reporters at a press conference in Warsaw,
          Poland
     ·    Obama suggested that he did not violate federal law by making the
          trade without congressional approval because his administration
          consulted with Congress 'for some time' about the possibility
     ·    He also brushed aside questions about Bergdahl's capture by insurgents
          in 2009, saying the circumstances of his departure from base are
          irrelevant


President Barack Obama defended his decision to release five detainees from
Guantanamo Bay in exchange for U.S. Army Sgt. Bowe Bergdahl today, saying the
country had an obligation to not leave its military personnel behind.

'Is there a possibility of some of them trying to return to activities that are
detrimental to us? Absolutely,' Obama said during today's press conference of
the recently released detainees.'That's been true of all the prisoners that were
released from Guantanamo. There's a certain recidivism rate that takes place.'

But the president added, 'I wouldn't be doing it if I thought that it was
contrary to American national security.'

Obama brushed aside questions today about how Sgt. Bergdahl -  a suspected
deserter - was captured in 2009.

The Pentagon concluded in 2010 that Bergdahl walked away from his unit, and,
after an initial flurry of searching, the military curbed any high-risk rescue
plans.

'Regardless of the circumstances, whatever those circumstances may turn out to
be, we still get an American solider back if he's held in captivity,' Obama
said. 'We don't condition that.'

Questions have also mounted at home over the way Bergdahl's freedom was secured:
Five high-level members of the Taliban were released from the U.S. prison in
Guantanamo Bay, Cuba, and sent to Qatar.

The five, who will have to stay in Qatar for a year before going back to
Afghanistan, include former ministers in the Taliban government, commanders and
one man who had direct ties to the late al-Qaida chief Osama bin Laden.

Republicans in Congress criticized the agreement and complained about not having
been consulted about the terms of Bergdahl's release.

They say that by unilaterally negotiating the term's of Bergdahl's release, the
President broke a federal law that requires him to notify members of Congress 30
days before releasing anyone from Guantanamo Bay.

Members of the House Armed Services Committee said the Pentagon notified the
panel by phone on Saturday that the exchange was occurring in the next five
hours.

But Obama said Tuesday lawmakers were aware that the U.S. could agree to a
prisoner swap with the Taliban 'for some time,' and he defended how his
administration handled the formal notifications, saying that when the
opportunity to free Bergdahl presented itself, 'We seized that opportunity.'

Officials said delaying Bergdahl's transfer in order to comply with the
congressional notification rules would have interfered with two of the
president's constitutional authorities: protecting the lives of Americans abroad
and protecting U.S. soldiers.

'Because such interference would significantly alter the balance between
Congress and the president, and could even raise constitutional concerns, we
believe it is fair to conclude that Congress did not intend that the
administration would be barred from taking the action it did in these
circumstances,' National Security Council spokeswoman Caitlin Hayden said in a
statement released shortly after Obama's news conference.

Obama has previously expressed concern about the congressional notification
requirement, which was passed as part of the 2014 defense bill.

In a statement that accompanied his signing of that legislation, he said the
executive branch must have flexibility 'to act swiftly in conducting
negotiations with foreign countries regarding the circumstances of detainee
transfers.'

The U.S. and the Taliban negotiated the prisoner exchange indirectly, with the
government of Qatar serving as an intermediary.

The five Afghan prisoners are now in Qatar and are banned from travelling
outside the country for a minimum of one year.

Republicans have also criticised the Obama administration actions as
capitulating to terrorists.

Former secretary of state Hillary Clinton however gave a measured defence
yesterday of the Obama's administration decision to swap the detainees for Sgt.
Bergdahl, noting many of America's allies make similar deals.

Clinton said she did not second-guess people who make such tough decisions and
added the American tradition of caring for its citizens and soldiers was a
'noble' one when she was asked about the exchange at an event in Denver.

'This young man, whatever the circumstances, was an American citizen - is an
American citizen - was serving in our military,' Clinton said. 'The idea that
you really care for your own citizens and particularly those in uniform, I think
is a very noble one.'

Clinton said the most important thing will be to get as much information as
possible from Bergdahl about his time in captivity, saying he could be a
valuable intelligence asset and shed light on the Taliban's workings.

Days after his rescue, Bergdahl, 28, is reportedly in stable condition at a U.S.
military hospital in Germany. It is unknown when he will return to the U.S., but
when he does, he will most likely be sent to Brooke Army Medical Center in San
Antoni, Texas, a Department of Defense official told CNN.

'The recovery and reintegration of Bowe Bergdahl is a work in progress,'
Bergdahl's father, Bob, said on Sunday at a press conference in Boise, Idaho.

'It isn't over for us. In many ways. It's just beginning for Jani, [Bowe's
mother] and I, and our family. There's a long process here.' he said

LOAD-DATE: June 3, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDM


                   Copyright 2014 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              66 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                   MailOnline

                        June 3, 2014 Tuesday 2:41 PM GMT

Obama defends trading five Taliban leaders for Bowe Bergdahl - but admits the
freed terrorists could attack the US again

BYLINE: JAMES RUSH

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 910 words



     ·    Barack Obama says U.S. has an obligation to not leave soldiers behind
     ·    He said his administration consulted with Congress 'for some time'
     ·    He brushed aside questions about soldier's capture by insurgents in
          2009


President Barack Obama defended his decision to release five detainees from
Guantanamo Bay in exchange for U.S. Army Sgt. Bowe Bergdahl today, saying the
country had an obligation to not leave its military personnel behind.

'Is there a possibility of some of them trying to return to activities that are
detrimental to us? Absolutely,' Obama said during today's press conference of
the recently released detainees.'That's been true of all the prisoners that were
released from Guantanamo. There's a certain recidivism rate that takes place.'

But the president added, 'I wouldn't be doing it if I thought that it was
contrary to American national security.'

Obama brushed aside questions today about how Sgt. Bergdahl -  a suspected
deserter - was captured in 2009.

The Pentagon concluded in 2010 that Bergdahl walked away from his unit, and,
after an initial flurry of searching, the military curbed any high-risk rescue
plans.

'Regardless of the circumstances, whatever those circumstances may turn out to
be, we still get an American solider back if he's held in captivity,' Obama
said. 'We don't condition that.'

Questions have also mounted at home over the way Bergdahl's freedom was secured:
Five high-level members of the Taliban were released from the U.S. prison in
Guantanamo Bay, Cuba, and sent to Qatar.

The five, who will have to stay in Qatar for a year before going back to
Afghanistan, include former ministers in the Taliban government, commanders and
one man who had direct ties to the late al-Qaida chief Osama bin Laden.

Republicans in Congress criticized the agreement and complained about not having
been consulted about the terms of Bergdahl's release.

They say that by unilaterally negotiating the term's of Bergdahl's release, the
President broke a federal law that requires him to notify members of Congress 30
days before releasing anyone from Guantanamo Bay.

Members of the House Armed Services Committee said the Pentagon notified the
panel by phone on Saturday that the exchange was occurring in the next five
hours.

But Obama said Tuesday that lawmakers were aware of the prospect that the U.S.
could agree to a prisoner swap with the Taliban 'for some time' and he defended
how his administration handled the formal notifications, saying that when the
opportunity to free Bergdahl presented itself, 'We seized that opportunity.'

Officials said delaying Bergdahl's transfer in order to comply with the
congressional notification rules would have interfered with two of the
president's constitutional authorities: protecting the lives of Americans abroad
and protecting U.S. soldiers.

'Because such interference would significantly alter the balance between
Congress and the president, and could even raise constitutional concerns, we
believe it is fair to conclude that Congress did not intend that the
administration would be barred from taking the action it did in these
circumstances,' National Security Council spokeswoman Caitlin Hayden said in a
statement released shortly after Obama's news conference.

Obama has previously expressed concern about the congressional notification
requirement, which was passed as part of the 2014 defense bill.

In a statement that accompanied his signing of that legislation, he said the
executive branch must have flexibility 'to act swiftly in conducting
negotiations with foreign countries regarding the circumstances of detainee
transfers.'

The U.S. and the Taliban negotiated the prisoner exchange indirectly, with the
government of Qatar serving as an intermediary.

The five Afghan prisoners are now in Qatar and are banned from travelling
outside the country for a minimum of one year.

Republicans have also criticised the Obama administration actions as
capitulating to terrorists.

Former secretary of state Hillary Clinton however gave a measured defence
yesterday of the Obama's administration decision to swap the detainees for Sgt.
Bergdahl, noting many of America's allies make similar deals.

Clinton said she did not second-guess people who make such tough decisions and
added the American tradition of caring for its citizens and soldiers was a
'noble' one when she was asked about the exchange at an event in Denver.

'This young man, whatever the circumstances, was an American citizen - is an
American citizen - was serving in our military,' Clinton said. 'The idea that
you really care for your own citizens and particularly those in uniform, I think
is a very noble one.'

Clinton said the most important thing will be to get as much information as
possible from Bergdahl about his time in captivity, saying he could be a
valuable intelligence asset and shed light on the Taliban's workings.

Days after his rescue, Bergdahl, 28, is reportedly in stable condition at a U.S.
military hospital in Germany. It is unknown when he will return to the U.S., but
when he does, he will most likely be sent to Brooke Army Medical Center in San
Antoni, Texas, a Department of Defense official told CNN.

'The recovery and reintegration of Bowe Bergdahl is a work in progress,'
Bergdahl's father, Bob, said on Sunday at a press conference in Boise, Idaho.

'It isn't over for us. In many ways. It's just beginning for Jani, [Bowe's
mother] and I, and our family. There's a long process here.' he said

LOAD-DATE: June 3, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDM


                   Copyright 2014 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              67 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                        June 3, 2014 Tuesday 7:01 PM GMT

Kenya police investigate reports of Samantha Lewthwaite sighting;
The Islamist widow of 7/7 bomber Germaine Lindsay has been a fugitive since 2011
and suspected of masterminding a number of terrorist attacks

BYLINE: By Mike Pflanz Nairobi

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 287 words


Kenyan                      police were on Tuesday night investigating claims
that a white woman seen trying to cross into Somalia could have been Samantha
Lewthwaite, the British widow of a July 7 bomber and now the world's most wanted
woman.

A foreign woman reportedly paid for two Kenyan policemen to escort her in a
rented four-wheel-drive from the island resort of Lamu to the border, where she
attempted to pass through Kenyan immigration and into Somalia.

Police sources denied that the woman matched any description of Lewthwaite, on
the run since 2011 when she fled Kenya after police uncovered a terror cell she
allegedly ran in the coastal city of Mombasa.

"The documents she used to try to cross the border do not match Samantha,"
Leonard Omollo, the Lamu county police commander told Kenyan media.

Anti-terror police sources in Nairobi, the capital, said that there was no
indication that the white woman spotted in the vicinity of the border in April
was Lewthwaite.

"She is long-gone, in Somalia, perhaps, or Tanzania, we don't know, but we do
know that even she would not be stupid enough to return to Kenya then hire
police officers to try to help her escape again into Somalia," one said.

There was no explanation, however, of who the woman could have been. She was
reported to have claimed to work for an aid agency, but almost all international
charities have declared the area off limits.

She was said to have "vanished" after border guards and immigration officials
refused her entry into Somalia.

She had said she had a package that she needed to deliver to Kenyan troops
stationed in southern Somalia as part of international armies battling
al-Shabaab.

LOAD-DATE: June 4, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTNS


                  Copyright 2014 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              68 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring South Asia - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                             June 4, 2014 Wednesday

FULER: Terror attack at Pakistan border post kills two soldiers, injures three

LENGTH: 232 words


Text of report by Zahir Shah Sherazi headlined "Attack on military posts kill
two soldiers, injure three others" by Pakistani newspaper Dawn website on 4 June

Peshawar: At least two soldiers were killed and three others were injured on
Wednesday [4 June] when unidentified militants attacked the military post on
Pak-Afghan border in Bajaur tribal region, according to the inter service public
relations (ISPR).

Inter service public relations (ISPR) confirmed that the attack took place on
Mano Zangal and Makaha Top check-posts.

The official sources said that this is the third time militants intruded the
Pakistani territory since 25 May.

The intelligence sources suspect that the Mullah Fazlullah led militants based
in Kunar and Nuristan along with Bajaur and Mohmand tribal area's faction may be
involved in the cross border attacks along with some foreign elements.

The security forces repulsed the attack.

Bajaur Agency sits directly across Afghanistan's Kunar province where a large
number of suspected Pakistani militants who had fled operations in Swat and
Bajaur have been living for the last few years. These people have in the past
launched similar cross-border attacks.

Pakistani protests with the Afghan government and coalition forces command in
the past went unheeded and authorities there turned a blind eye to their
sanctuaries.

Source: Dawn website, Karachi, in English 04 Jun 14

LOAD-DATE: June 4, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2014 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              69 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring South Asia - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                             June 4, 2014 Wednesday

Police arrest 15 for terror attack on Pakistan border post - paper

LENGTH: 185 words


Text of report by Pakistani newspaper The Express Tribune website on 4 June

Peshawar: The political administration of Bajaur Agency on Wednesday [4 June]
arrested 15 men under collective responsibility clause of Frontier Crimes
Regulations (FCR) following an attack on a Levies [traditional forces] post.

Three Levies official were injured when unidentified militants opened fire on
their post in Mamond tehsil of Bajaur Agency, late on Tuesday [3 June] night. An
official of the political administration said Subidar Muneer Zada, Sepoy Amjad,
and Sepoy Manan were injured in the attack. On Wednesday, the administration
conducted search operation in the area and arrested 15 men. In another
development, security forces officials said that they have started artillery
shelling in Letai and Kaga pass areas and destroyed two important militant
hideouts on Pak-Afghan border.

The artillery fire started on Tuesday night and continued till early morning on
Wednesday, the official said. The incessant pounding caused heavy losses to
militants, he claimed.

Source: Express Tribune website, Karachi, in English 04 Jun 14

LOAD-DATE: June 4, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2014 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              70 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                            Aberdeen Evening Express

                             June 5, 2014 Thursday

How horrific terror attack changed life of celebrated US singer-songwriter Sam

BYLINE: Sean Wallace

SECTION: FEATURES; MUSIC; Rock; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 379 words


SINGER-SONGWRITER Sam Baker's life changed forever in the mountains of Peru back
in 1986 when he was left fighting for his life following a terrorist attack.

Sam, who headlines The Blue Lamp tomorrow, was on a train to Machu Picchu when a
bomb set by Shining Path guerrillas exploded on the luggage rack above his head.

He suffered horrific injuries and underwent 18 corrective surgeries over the
next 10 years.

The damage to Sam's right hand forced him to relearn to play the guitar left
handed.

From that darkness eventually came light as Sam has released a string of
acclaimed albums bathed with optimism and empathy.

He said: "If you get a cut artery at 10,000ft in South America, you probably
should die.

"For more than 20 days I couldn't move and couldn't get out of bed.

"My hands were blown up, so I couldn't do anything with them, and couldn't use
my legs.

"For a long time I was so bitter and angry about everything I had lost.

"It took time but at some point I shifted into a place where I was grateful for
what I had left and not bitter about what was gone."

The explosion killed the three people who had been sitting with Sam, a German
family of mother, father and child.

"The way out is to begin to forgive," he said.

"For so long I held on to so much sadness, and that became awfully cold.

"At the point where I began to forgive, the sky began to lighten.

"For the most part I've accepted that the world is a place of great beauty and
great tragedy, and we all get our share of each.

"What doesn't kill us can break us, but then at some point it does make us
stronger."

Sam's poignant Americana is a mix of the lyrical beauty of Gene Clark, the
story-telling of Steve Earle and the honesty of Shane MacGowan.

He released his debut Mercy in 2004 and has produced three subsequent albums
with the most recent last year's Say Grace.

Writing music was, for him, a form of catharsis.

Playing live shows was a by-product and he admits to having pre-show nerves.

But once Sam is on stage, and caught in the moment, those nerves quickly
evaporate.

The 59-year-old, from Austin, Texas said: "I've always felt a bit unsettled with
the act of performance.

"But once I'm on stage I'm fine.

"I play and suddenly the lights go up and it is time to go home.

"I couldn't imagine not playing live now."

LOAD-DATE: June 5, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: GUITaR MAN: Sam Baker loves performing live, despite his nerves.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: EE


                      Copyright 2014 Aberdeen Journals Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                              71 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring Middle East - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                             June 5, 2014 Thursday

Iran condemns terrorist attack in Iraq Samarra City

LENGTH: 300 words


Text of report in English by Iranian official government news agency IRNA
website

Tehran, 5 June: Foreign Ministry Spokeswoman Marziyeh Afkham here Thursday [5
June] strongly condemned "crazy" terrorist attack in Iraq's holy Samarra City
which claimed lives of a number of Iraqi citizens and military officers.

Expressing deep concern over the probability of expansion of such mindless
criminal acts by the foreign-backed terrorists, Afkham warned against any type
of breaching of the sanctity of the religious centres in that city, especially
the holy shrines of the Infallible Imams (P) there.

The Foreign Ministry spokesperson also asked the international society and the
concerned world bodies to heed their responsibilities in offering effective
support for the Iraqi Government and nation in their restless campaign against
terrorism and extremism.

Gunmen attacked several security checkpoints in the Iraqi city of Samarra on
Thursday morning, sparking hours of deadly fighting with Iraqi security forces,
police officials in Samarra said.

At least 23 people were killed and 33 others were injured in the fighting,
health officials there said.

The attackers are suspected to be members of the Islamic State in Iraq and
Syria, (DAESH) an Al-Qa'idah splinter group known by the acronym ISIS, police
said.

Samarra is a religiously holy city, about 100 kilometres north of Baghdad.

Iraq has been plagued by terrorist and political violence, some of it fuelled by
foreign interference, trying to weaken the legal government and partly due to
the lingering unrest in neighbouring Syria.

Last year was the deadliest in Iraq since 2008, with more than 8,800 people
killed, most of them civilians, according to the United Nations.

Source: Islamic Republic News Agency website, Tehran, in English 1835 gmt 5 Jun
14

LOAD-DATE: June 6, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2014 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              72 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                          Daily Record and Sunday Mail

                             June 5, 2014 Thursday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

stop this beast;
Cops release e-fit of sex attacker who terrorised two women at their own homes
in middle of the night

BYLINE: JACK MATHIESON

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 316 words


THIS is the face of a man wanted for questioning by detectives hunting a serial
sex attacker.

The e-fit image was released by police after two women were indecently assaulted
at their homes.

A hooded predator attacked a 27-year-old woman in her bed at a house in
Livingston on May 7. Police believe the same attacker may have struck half a
mile away a month earlier when a 20-year-old woman was attacked in her back
garden. And they have warned women to take care while walking in the town at
night.

The man in the e-fit was seen near the town's Orchard Place in the early hours.
He is described as white, aged 25 to 30 and around 5ft 10ins. He is thin, with a
large thin nose and dark hair, long on top.

Detective Superintendent Pat Campbell said the man may have had "legitimate"
reasons for being in the area.

Officers said forensic evidence had been found linking the attacks in Scott Brae
on April 8 and Orchard Place.

The sex beast is believed to have got into the flat in Orchard Place via an open
window. He sexually assaulted the woman who was too to call for help.

Detectives probing the attack linked it to one four weeks earlier.

A man emerged from shrubbery and pounced on his victim as she smoked a cigarette
in the garden at 5.20am after finishing work. She fought him off and he fled
into woodland at the back of the house.

Officers have checked CCTV footage and trawled through other sex attack
inquiries, in West Lothian and further afield.

DS Campbell said: "I would advise women to take care when walking alone at night
in the Livingston area and to report any suspicious behaviour they notice."

Meanwhile, police are also investigating rapes in the Govanhill and Toryglen
areas of Glasgow.

Two men raped a 24-year-old woman in Dixon Road, Govanhill, on May 19.

Another woman was gangraped in Toryglen on May 10. The 33-yearold victim was
dragged into a close and attacked by three Asian men.

LOAD-DATE: June 5, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: STREET ADVICE DS Pat Campbell
PHOTOFIT Man wanted in connection with rapes in Livingston

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DRC


             Copyright 2014 Scottish Daily Record & Sunday Mail Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                              73 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                       BBC Monitoring Europe - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                              June 6, 2014 Friday

Belgium: Syria fighter urges Muslim youth to launch domestic terror attacks

LENGTH: 180 words


Text of report by Belgian leading privately-owned newspaper De Standaard
website, on 5 June

[Report by "gjs": "Antwerp Syria Fighter Appeals for New Attack"]

On the social network site Facebook, the Antwerp Syria fighter Azeddine Kbir
Bounekoub is calling upon Muslim youths to follow the example of the gunman who
shot three people dead and mortally wounded a fourth in the Jewish Museum on 24
May. Gazet van Antwerpen and Het Belang van Limburg [newspapers] report this on
5 June.

"May Allah make more youths stand up who take as their example the person who
perpetrated the attack in the Jewish Museum. You can find martyrdom not only in
Syria but also in Belgium. Be a thorn in the side of these enemies of Islam,"
the message runs.

According to the newspapers, the judicial authorities have major concerns about
the appeal, as Bounekoub was a notorious member of Sharia4Belgium, which has now
been wound up. He is also one of the extremists who are being prosecuted in the
organization's big terrorism case. He is currently in Syria.

Source: De Standaard website in Dutch 5 Jun 14

LOAD-DATE: June 6, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2014 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              74 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                          The Guardian - Final Edition

                              June 6, 2014 Friday

Fears of miscarriage of justice in secret trial: Labour attacks holding of
terrorism case in private: Appeal court to decide on media challenge to ruling

BYLINE: Sandra Laville and Owen Bowcott

SECTION: GUARDIAN HOME PAGES; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 507 words


Plans to hold the criminal trial of two men charged with serious terrorism
offences entirely in secret runs the risk of creating a miscarriage of justice
that will never be put right, the shadow justice secretary has warned.

Sadiq Khan spoke out as a row intensified over a judge's decision to allow the
terror trial this month to be held in private and the defendants' identities to
be withheld. Details of the case could only be reported on Wednesday when the
court of appeal lifted an order banning publication of any information about the
case.

The Guardian and other media are challenging the secrecy surrounding the trial
and a ruling by the court of appeal is expected within days.

Khan warned there could be an irreversible miscarriage of justice if the trial
on 16 June went ahead in private. "The Birmingham Six were convicted in the
1970s for a very serious terrorist offence. As a consequence of the trial being
held in open (court), as a consequence of journalists knowing about the dodgy
evidence against them, people like Chris Mullin, Granada, the BBC, uncovered
what really happened and those men were subsequently acquitted.

"If these two men have a trial completely in secret - we don't know their names,
we don't know the evidence against them - how can we ever have the confidence
they were convicted properly?"

The appeal court has heard that the crown sought and obtained unprecedented
orders to hold the trial in secret and to withhold the men's identities, on the
grounds of national security last month. The crown threatened that if the trial
was held in public the case might have to be dropped.

John Cooper QC, a leading criminal barrister, said the orders granted had
imposed "one of the most draconian provisions the system has ever know".

But the former director of public prosecutions, Lord MacDonald, said there were
occasions when it served justice to hold trials partly or totally in secret.

He said: "There's a powerful public interest in trials taking place and judges
have always had a statutory power to exclude people from the courtroom to hold
parts of trials in camera."

Justice minister Chris Grayling said the default in the court system should be
transparency, but there were times where it was right to hold hearings in
secret.

The men - whose identities are not known - were arrested in a high profile
police operation last year. AB is charged with engaging in conduct in
preparation of terrorist acts. He is further charged with CD of being in
possession of documents containing information of the kind likely to be used by
a person committing or preparing an act of terrorism.

Lord Justice Gross lifted a court order on Wednesday to allow details of the
media's challenge to the secret trial plan to be reported. But much of the
evidence presented by the crown in support of its case that the trial should be
held in private was presented in a closed hearing.

Richard Whittam QC, for the crown, told the court of appeal in open court that
the case was exceptional and exceptional procedures were necessary.

LOAD-DATE: June 6, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2014 Guardian Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              75 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                   MailOnline

                        June 6, 2014 Friday 4:59 AM GMT

China pins Xinjiang attacks on terrorists groups

BYLINE: ASSOCIATED PRESS

SECTION: AP

LENGTH: 739 words


BEIJING (AP) - Chinese state media issued details Friday on 81 people sentenced
on terror-related charges - nine of them to death - saying the bulk had belonged
to terrorist organizations and committed murder and other violent crimes.

The sentences issued Thursday came amid a massive crackdown in the western
region of Xinjiang following four high-profile attacks on civilians since late
October that have handed a major security challenge to President Xi Jinping
during his first 15 months in office.

The attacks have been blamed on extremists from the Xinjiang region's native
Turkic-speaking Uighurs seeking to overthrow Chinese rule and inspired by global
jihadi ideology.

Since a vegetable market bombing that killed 43 people on May 22, officials have
issued a flurry of announcements citing more than 300 arrests and scores of
rapid prosecutions resulting in stiff sentences including the death penalty -
raising concerns among some human rights advocates that the prosecutions may be
trampling legal rights.

Xinjiang television said 68 people had been charged with organizing, leading or
participating in a terrorist organization, along with murder, assault, arson,
and making or transporting explosives and firearms. It said 13 others were
charged with lesser crimes such as ethnic discrimination and distributing
materials promoting ethnic hatred.

Footage showed the accused standing before court officials in prison uniforms,
their hands shackled and heads pressed down by officers standing behind them.
Some were hooded as they left the courtroom.

Evidence shown included samurai swords and what appeared to be rope fuses and
other simple bomb-making materials.

Authorities have said 23 extremist groups have been broken up, including a group
of five allegedly plotting another bomb attack. Last week, officials said 55
people charged with terrorism and other crimes were sentenced at a stadium in
northern Xinjiang - including at least one sentenced to death.

Another 81 more people were sentenced at six different courts in Xinjiang -
including nine sentenced to death and three given suspended death sentences
which typically are commuted to life in prison.

Court officials could not be reached for comment.

Meanwhile, the Xinjiang regional government said Thursdsay on its website that
29 new "violent terrorist criminal suspects" had been arrested.

Chinese authorities strictly control information about security in Xinjiang, and
very little information can be obtained independently about suspects rounded up
in such crackdowns or the evidence against them.

Beijing says the attackers are religious extremists with ties to overseas
Islamic terror groups, but has publicly shown little evidence to support that.

Activists among the native Turkic Uighur population say the unrest is fueled by
resentment against settlers from China's Han majority and official
discrimination and restrictions on their native culture and Islamic practices.
They also say Chinese authorities label general criminal activity and
non-violent protests as terrorist acts.

Rights activists have cautioned the latest crackdown could result in police
abuses such as torture and forced confessions, faulty trials and inordinately
heavy sentencing, further fueling resentments among Uighurs.

In the May 22 market bombing in the Xinjiang capital of Urumqi, men in SUVs
plowed through crowds and tossed explosives in an attack that killed 39 people
plus four of the attackers - in the region's deadliest single incident of
violence in recent history.

Three earlier attacks also were blamed on Xinjiang extremists, also using
rudimentary explosives, vehicles or knives.

An apparent suicide bombing April 30 at an Urumqi train station killed two
suspected insurgents and one bystander. In March, 29 people were slashed and
stabbed to death at a train station in the southwestern city of Kunming. Last
October, three assailants drove an SUV through crowds in front of Beijing's
iconic Tiananmen Gate in October and set their vehicle alight, killing the three
attackers and two tourists.

The crackdown has been accompanied by tough language from Chinese leaders.

At a top-level meeting late last month, President Xi called for "copper walls
and iron barriers" as well as "nets spread from the earth to the sky" to stop
terrorism, while also promising more support for education and employment in
Xinjiang.

____

AP writers Gillian Wong and Ian Mader in Beijing contributed.

LOAD-DATE: June 6, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDM


                   Copyright 2014 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              76 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                  mirror.co.uk

                        June 6, 2014 Friday 6:37 PM GMT

Fighter jets to guard World Cup stadia during matches to prevent 9/11 copycat
terror attacks;
Anti-aircraft guns will also be in place at all 12 venues while commercial
flights will also be subject to a four-mile no-fly zone on matchdays

BYLINE: By Jeremy Armstrong

SECTION: NEWS,WORLD NEWS

LENGTH: 154 words


Brazil will have fighter planes in the skies above World Cup venues to thwart
devastating 9/11              copycat suicide attacks.

Anti-aircraft guns will also be in place at              all 12 World Cup
venuesas tournament chiefs combat the threat of terrorists in hijacked planes.

The US-built Northrop Tiger fighters are set to be deployed as matches are
played.

The 1,082mph jets, armed with air-to-air missiles and 30mm cannon, will be
backed up by a reconnaissance plane.

Commercial flights will not be allowed to land at eight airports within a
four-mile no-fly radius around the stadia when games are played.

Suspension will begin one hour before kick-off and last up to five hours.

Four passenger planes were hijacked by al-Qaeda terrorists in the 9/11 attacks
on the US in 2001.

Experts on the ground in Brazil will be checking for radioactive dirty bombs as
part of the biggest security operation in the country's history.

LOAD-DATE: September 4, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDMI


                      Copyright 2014 Trinity Mirror, Plc.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              77 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                 thetimes.co.uk

                        June 6, 2014 Friday 1:25 AM GMT

Saudi alert for terror attacks

BYLINE: Hugh Tomlinson

SECTION: MIDDLE EAST

LENGTH: 286 words


Fears are growing in Saudi Arabia of an imminent wave of terrorist attacks by
groups linked to al-Qaeda as extremist fighters return from the war in Syria.

After a string of arrests and signs of a mounting propaganda campaign by Saudi
Islamists over recent weeks, a security operation is underway as the kingdom
braces for a campaign of violence akin to that waged by al-Qaeda in the years
after 9/11.

Saudi Arabia, which has been a major source of funding, weapons and recruits for
Syria's rebels, announced last month that it had foiled a plot to assassinate
senior officials and religious figures by terrorists linked to the Islamic State
of Iraq and al-Sham (Isis).

The group has flourished in the chaos of Syria, where it is trying to carve out
a radical Islamist state, but it was the first known attempt to strike inside
Saudi Arabia. Sources in Riyadh confirmed that security forces had made further
arrests, including young men handing out Isis leaflets. Photos of jihadist
graffiti, sprayed on Saudi government buildings and declaring "Islamic state,
remaining and expanding," have appeared online.

"It was expected and it is now happening. These groups are now active inside the
kingdom again," a Saudi government adviser said.

"The kingdom is a fertile recruiting ground for al-Qaeda, just as it was in the
past. There is massive unemployment among the young and they are easily
corrupted by the radical ideology that has surrounded the war in Syria."

The emergence of Isis in Saudi Arabia is troubling for security officials. Until
now, the group had rarely struck outside its bases in Iraq and Syria, where its
campaign of violence earned it the dubious honour of being disowned by
al-Qaeda's high command.

LOAD-DATE: June 6, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBTTO


                     Copyright 2014 News International Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                              78 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                                  Daily Mirror

                             June 7, 2014 Saturday
                                   Edition 1;
                                    Ireland

Thugs try to rob mum then follow her home;
Terror after ATM attack at shop centre

BYLINE: GARRETH MacNAMEE

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 23

LENGTH: 396 words


A MOTHER was terrorised by two armed thugs who tried to rob her in broad
daylight then followed her as she drove home.

The woman, who is in her 40s, had been out at the Roselawn Shopping Centre in
Blanchardstown, North Dublin.

She had just taken money out of a nearby ATM and was walking back to her car
when the thugs struck on Tuesday.

The men, who were both locals, tried to hijack the victim's car.

When they failed, they tried to smash her window in a bid to snatch her bag.

The woman thought she was safe as she drove home to the Coolmine Lawn housing
estate nearby.

But the scumbags chased her in a black Opel Corsa. She had only just got in the
door to see the car drive up into her front garden.

It is understood the two men were armed with an iron bar.

Neighbours were alerted to the commotion and the street was soon filled with
people watching what was happening.

One man, who was riding a motorbike, confronted the pair but they put the car in
reverse and tried to knock him off his bike.

They failed and sped off.

A security source said: "It would appear these men were lying in wait for what
they thought was a soft target.

"They spotted this woman getting money from the cash machine and then went after
her. She did well to shake them off.

"But it is uncommon to be followed after an incident like this.

"There have been unconfirmed reports as to the identities of these men but by
their description, they are young men with strong Dublin accents.

"The number plate gardai were looking for is a fake."

Resident Ger O'Callaghan said the area has been hit by a spate of robberies in
the past month or two.

He added: "It's happening nearly every other week at this rate.

"I heard there are young lads keeping lookout and telling these robbers when
they see people leave.

"Things are different now. You have to be a lot more careful with how you go
about yourself."

Gardai confirmed they were investigating the attempted robbery and are appealing
for witnesses.

They want anybody wRCcc who was in the Roselawn or Coolmine areas to come
forward and contact them.

A Garda spokesman said: "We are investigating the attempted robbery which
happened on June 3 at around 3pm.

sgrha "Anyone with information is being asked to get in touch with the Garda
Confidential Line on iaw C 1800 666 111."

news@irishmirror.ie

I heard there are lads telling robbers when people leave GER O'CALLAGHAN
yesterday

LOAD-DATE: June 7, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: HORROR Victim was chased to her home in Blanchardstown

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DMR


                            Copyright 2014 MGN Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              79 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                               Daily Star Online

                        June 8, 2014 Sunday 10:45 PM GMT

Airport terror: Gunmen launch devastating attack on Pakistan airport

LENGTH: 143 words


FIVE security officers were killed as gunmen armed with rifles and grenades
stormed Karachi airport in Pakistan.

The army and police were involved in a gun battle with the militants believed to
be at a terminal for special VIP flights and for cargo, as well as for pilgrims
travelling to Saudi Arabia.

There were also reports that two of the terrorists were killed.

The attack took place at around midnight local time when armed gunmen entered
Karachi's Jinnah airport and opened fire.

The masked attackers also threw grenades at planes on the tarmac, causing one to
catch fire.

"Karachi Airport has been attacked. Security forces are trying to control the
situation. All flight operations are suspended," said Abid Kaimkhani, a
spokesman for the Civil Aviation Authority.

No group has claimed responsibility for the attack.

LOAD-DATE: June 9, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDS


              Copyright 2014 Northern and Shell Media Publications
                              All Rights Reserved

                              80 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                 Express Online

                        June 8, 2014 Sunday 10:39 PM GMT

Terrorists launch deadly attack on Pakistan airport with assault rifles and
grenades

BYLINE: Cyrus Engineer

LENGTH: 395 words


TERRORISTS have attacked Karachi's international airport, killing at least five
people and setting planes on fire by throwing grenades.

Fire is seen rising from Karachi's international airport [AP]

Between four and 10 gunmen launched the attack on Jinnah International Airport
in the southern Pakistani city.

At least four security guards are dead while two attackers are also said to have
been killed in the fierce gun battle.

Smoke and flames have been spotted near an aircraft. The army has been
dispatched to the airport and a state of emergency has been declared in the
city.

The attack began at around midnight local time.

It took place in the terminal which is used for cargo and VIP as well as to
transport pilgrims to the holy Islamic site of Mecca.

All flights in and out of the terminal have been suspended.

Pakistani commandos prepare to enter the airport [AP]

This Twitter picture shows Pakistani security forces attempting to regain
control of the airport [TWITTER]

Senior police official Rao Muhammad Anwar said: "We don't know the exact number
of the attackers but suspect four to six terrorists have attacked the airport."

"Karachi Airport has been attacked. Security forces are trying to control the
situation. All flight operations are suspended," said Abid Kaimkhani, a
spokesman for the Civil Aviation Authority.

Suspicion has fallen on the Pakistani Taliban who recently relaunched attacks
after a short ceasefire.

According to local sources some of the grenades were thrown at aircrafts on the
tarmac and at least one caused a plane to catch fire.

Pakistan's government has been trying to negotiate a peace deal with militants
mostly based in the northwest who have been waging war against the government.

An explosion is captured in this screenshot from local Pakistani TV [AP]

A general view of Jinnah International Airport in Karachi [EPA]

But the talks have had little success, raising fears that the militants will
increase attacks across the country.

Security personnel have sealed off the roads around the airport.

Pakistan's Dawn News reported the attackers infiltrated the airport using forged
identity cards.

Karachi is Pakistan's largest city and has been the site of frequent militant
attacks in the past.

It is the country's economic heart and any militant activity targeting the
airport likely would strike a heavy blow at foreign investment in the country.

LOAD-DATE: June 9, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDE


              Copyright 2014 Northern and Shell Media Publications
                              All Rights Reserved

                              81 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                 Express Online

                        June 8, 2014 Sunday 10:02 PM GMT

BREAKING: Terrorists launch attack on Pakistan airport with assault rifles and
grenades

BYLINE: Cyrus Engineer

LENGTH: 277 words


TERRORISTS have attacked Karachi's international airport, killing at least five
people and throwing grenades.

Fire is seen rising from Karachi's international airport [AP]

Between four and 10 suspeted Islamist gunmen launched the attack on Jinnah
International Airport in the southern Pakistani city.

At least four security guards are dead while two attackers may also have been
killed.

Smoke and flames have been spotted near an aircraft. The army has been
dispatched to the airport and a state of emergency has been declared in the
city.

The attack took place in the terminal which is used to transport pilgrims to the
holy Islamic site of Mecca.

All flights in and out of the terminal have been suspended.

Pakistani commandos prepare to enter the airport [AP]

This Twitter picture shows Pakistani security forces attempting to regain
control of the airport [TWITTER]

A general view of Jinnah International Airport in Karachi [EPA]

Senior police official Rao Muhammad Anwar said: "We don't know the exact number
of the attackers but suspect four to six terrorists have attacked the airport."

"Karachi Airport has been attacked. Security forces are trying to control the
situation. All flight operations are suspended," said Abid Kaimkhani, a
spokesman for the Civil Aviation Authority.

Suspicion has fallen on the Pakistani Taliban who recently relaunched attacks
after a short ceasefire.

According to reports some of the grenades were thrown at aircrafts on the tarmac
and at least one caused the plane to catch fire.

Security personnel have sealed off the roads around the airport.

Pakistan's Dawn News reported the attackers infiltrated the airport using forged
identity cards.

LOAD-DATE: June 9, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDE


              Copyright 2014 Northern and Shell Media Publications
                              All Rights Reserved

                              82 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                 Express Online

                        June 8, 2014 Sunday 9:42 PM GMT

BREAKING: Terrorists launch deadly attack on Pakistan airport

BYLINE: Cyrus Engineer

LENGTH: 203 words


TERRORISTS have attacked Karachi's international airport, killing at least five
people and throwing grenades.

Karachi's international airport is reportedly under attack[TWITTER/PZFEED]

Between four and 10 suspeted Islamist gunmen launched the attack on Jinnah
International Airport in the southern Pakistani city.

At least four security guards are dead while two attackers may also have been
killed.

Smoke and flames have been spotted near an aircraft. The army has been
dispatched to the airport and a state of emergency has been declared in the
city.

The attack took place in the terminal which is used to transport pilgrims to the
holy Islamic site of Mecca.

All flights in and out of the terminal have been suspended.

A general view of Jinnah International Airport in Karachi [EPA]

Senior police official Rao Muhammad Anwar said: "We don't know the exact number
of the attackers but suspect four to six terrorists have attacked the airport."

Security personnel have sealed off the roads around the airport.

Pakistan's Dawn News reported the attackers infiltrated the airport using forged
identity cards.

There is currently no indication of who is carrying out the attack and no known
terror groups have claimed responsibility.

LOAD-DATE: June 9, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDE


              Copyright 2014 Northern and Shell Media Publications
                              All Rights Reserved

                              83 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                 Express Online

                        June 8, 2014 Sunday 8:56 PM GMT

BREAKING: Terrorists launch deadly attack on Pakistan airport

BYLINE: Cyrus Engineer

LENGTH: 152 words


TERRORISTS have attacked Karachi's international airport, killing at least four
people and throwing grenades.

Karachi's international airport is reportedly under attack[TWITTER/PZFEED]

Four to six gunmen have launched the attack on Jinnah International Airport's
old terminal.

At least four security guards are dead while two attackers may also have been
killed.

There are also suggestions part of the airport is on fire.

All flights in and out of the terminal have been suspended.

Senior police official Rao Muhammad Anwar said: "We don't know the exact number
of the attackers but suspect four to six terrorists have attacked the airport."

Security personnel have sealed off the roads around the airport.

Pakistan's Dawn News reported the attackers infiltrated the airport using forged
identity cards.

There is currently no indication of who is carrying out the attack and no known
terror groups have claimed responsibility.

LOAD-DATE: June 9, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDE


              Copyright 2014 Northern and Shell Media Publications
                              All Rights Reserved

                              84 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                              Accountancy Age (UK)

                        June 9, 2014 Monday 4:39 AM GMT

Over 20 killed in terrorist attack at Karachi airport

BYLINE: Andrew Tjaardstra

LENGTH: 182 words



HIGHLIGHT: Celia Adams takes over as president of the Birmingham and West
Midlands Society of Chartered Accountants


On Sunday night (8 June) armed militants launched an attack on Jinnah
International Airport which left at least 23 dead including 10 militants in a
six-hour siege with the army.

Early reports said13 people were killed by the militants and 14 people have been
wounded. Among the dead were airline staff and security guards.

Some reports now suggest 27 were killed.

A reporter at the airport witnessed three huge blasts which, according to
intelligence officials at the scene, were suicide bombers detonating explosives.

Authorities said all 10 militants had been killed and that at least 11 dead
bodies including security personnel and two civilians were received by the
city's main Jinnah Hospital.

The airport was closed but no major physical damage was reported and it should
resume operations this afternoon (9 June).

The Tehreek-e-Taliban, the Pakistani Taliban, have claimed responsibility for
the attack.

Taliban militants have been responsible for similar incidents over the last five
years including an attack on the Mehran naval base, 3km from the airport, in
2011 which killed 10 personnel.

LOAD-DATE: June 11, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication


                     Copyright 2014 Incisive Media Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              85 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring Middle East - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                              June 9, 2014 Monday

Pakistani Shi'i pilgrims come under "terrorist" attack - Iran agency

LENGTH: 166 words


The convoy of two buses of Pakistani Shi'i pilgrims has come under "terrorist
attack" by "armed unidentified" individuals while it was returning from Iran,
IRNA reported on 9 June.

The report said the pilgrims were attacked in Pakistani town of Taftan in
south-western Balochistan Province near the Iranian border on the late evening
of 8 June.

Deputy governor-general in security affairs of Iran's Sistan-Baluchestan
Province Ali Asghar Mishekari told IRNA: "Following the terrorist incident on
the Pakistani soil, which was near the Iranian border, Iran's border guards
rushed to help the neighbouring country's security forces".

In a similar report, Iran's rolling news channel IRINN said that the "suicide
attack" on the convoy left at least 30 people killed and 10 injured. The report
added that no group has so far claimed responsibility for the attack.

Sources: IRNA website, Tehran in Persian, 2127 gmt 08 Jun 14 ; Islamic Republic
of Iran News Network, Tehran, in Persian 0130 gmt 09 Jun 14

LOAD-DATE: June 9, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2014 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              86 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                       BBC Monitoring Trans Caucasus Unit
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                              June 9, 2014 Monday

Iran condemns terror attack against Pakistani pilgrims

LENGTH: 129 words


Text of report by Iranian conservative news agency Mehr

Spokeswoman for Iran's Foreign Ministry Marziyeh Afkham has condemned the terror
attack against Shi'i Pakistani pilgrims, Mehr news agency reported on 9 June.

According to the report, Marziyeh Afkham condemned the terrorist attack on Shi'i
Pakistani pilgrims in Taftan City of Pakistan's Balochistan Province.

Afkham expressed condolences of the Iranian government and the nation, saying:
"The Islamic Republic of Iran condemns terrorist attack against innocent people
irrespective of ethnicity and religious denomination in Pakistan. We hope that
necessary measures will be taken to prevent the repetition of such terrorist
attacks against defenceless people."

Source: Mehr news agency, Tehran, in Persian 1007 gmt 9 Jun 14

LOAD-DATE: June 9, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2014 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              87 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                    Sky News

                        June 9, 2014 Monday 06:48 AM GMT

Karachi Airport Terror Attack Leaves 23 Dead

SECTION: BUSINESS

LENGTH: 407 words



HIGHLIGHT: At least 23 people have been killed after gunmen disguised as police
guards attacked a terminal at Pakistan's Jinnah international airport in
Karachi.


  Militants armed with automatic weapons, a rocket launcher and grenades stormed
the airport before midnight and were involved in an intense six-hour firefight
with the airport's security force, police, paramilitaries and commandos.

Ten of the dead were the attackers, according to Pakistan's paramilitary
Rangers.

Also killed were at least four airport security staff, civilian airport
employees and four Pakistan International Airlines (PIA) staff.

The Pakistani Taliban claimed responsibility for the attack saying it was in
revenge for their late leader Hakimullah Mehsud, who was killed in a US drone
strike in November.

Television footage showed what appeared to be a major fire and plumes of smoke
rising from the runway where planes were parked.

Heavy gunfire and multiple explosions could be heard coming from the terminal as
authorities scrambled to secure the area.

The terminal targeted by the fighters was said to be used for VIPs and cargo.

Officials said the airport had been completely evacuated of passengers.

All flights are currently suspended "and have been diverted to other cities", a
civil aviation authority spokesman said.

Pakistan's military spokesman Major General Asim Bajwa confirmed an end to
operation, saying: "Update: Area cleared. No damage to aircraft, fire visible in
pics was not plane but a building, now extinguished. All vital assets intact."

Maj Gen Bajwa added that ammunition, rockets and grenades were recovered from
the dead attackers.

"Precautionary sweep after day light. Airport will be cleared by midday for
operations, handed back to CAA (Civil Aviation Authority)/ASF (Airport Security
Force). Pakistan Zindabad (long live Pakistan)!" he later tweeted.

The attack will raise fresh concerns about Pakistan's security situation, and
questions about how militants were able to penetrate the airport which serves
one of the world's biggest cities.

Karachi has been the site of frequent militant attacks in the past.

While no one has yet claimed responsibility for the attack, Pakistan's
government has been trying to negotiate a peace deal with militants based mainly
in the northwest of the country.

PHOTO:

Link to Image

VIDEO:

The terminal targeted by the fighters is used for VIPs and cargo

More than 20 people have been killed after gunmen disguised as police guards
attacked a terminal at Pakistan's Karachi international airport, say officials.
Siobhan Robbins reports.

Link to Video

LOAD-DATE: June 9, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication


                              Copyright 2014 BSkyB
                              All Rights Reserved

                              88 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                 standard.co.uk

                        June 9, 2014 Monday 10:13 AM GMT

Met Police urge Londoners to be vigilant to potential terror attacks

BYLINE: Justin Davenport

SECTION: HOME

LENGTH: 309 words


Londoners are being urged to be vigilant to the threat of terror attacks in a
week long initiative launched today.

Hundreds of officers will be deployed on patrols at Tube and rail stations and
in crowded areas such as shopping centres across the capital.

Counter terror officials said the operation was routine but it comes amid
increasing fears about the threat posed by British jihadist fighters returning
from the Syrian civil war.

Earlier this month a French citizen who had fought in Syria was arrested for
killing three people in an attack at the Jewish Museum in Brussels.

Thousands of staff from shops and businesses in London are being briefed on
their role in spotting suspicious activity in this week's Operation Griffin
initiative.

Commander Simon Bray, of the Met's Specialist Operations division, said:
"Everyone has a role to play in keeping London safe from terrorism. This
operation sees specialist officers working closely with neighbourhood officers
and communities raising awareness of security in London.

"The threat to London from terrorism remains real and serious so we encourage
the public to remain vigilant and alert and to report anything suspicious to
police."

Three police forces are taking part in this week's operation which involves
neighbourhood police and specialist officers including the mounted branch and
the marine support unit.

Assistant Chief Constable Steve Thomas of British Transport Police said: "It is
vitally important that we do not get complacent, and the vigilance of passengers
and staff remains a crucial element - with more than six million people
travelling every day, we have millions of eyes and ears across the whole system
- a surveillance resource second to none."

Anyone who has any information about unusual activity or behaviour should
contact the confidential Anti-Terrorist Hotline on 0800 789 321.

LOAD-DATE: June 9, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBES


                    Copyright 2014 Evening Standard Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              89 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                        June 9, 2014 Monday 9:55 AM GMT

Karachi airport attack: Taliban gunmen terror attack leaves 28 dead;
Pakistan Taliban gunmen, some wearing suicide vests, storm Karachi airport
disguised as policemen, raising fears of fresh wave of terror attacks after
peace talks stall

BYLINE: By Rob Crilly Islamabad, and agencies

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 612 words


· Gunmen storm Karachi airport on Sunday night                      · 28 dead,
including 10 militants disguised as guards· Plane evacuated as smoke seen on
runway · Fresh gunfire hours after seige declared over· Pakistan Taliban claim
responsibility for attack

The Pakistan Taliban on Monday claimed responsibility for a brazen night-time
assault on Karachi airport, leaving 18 security guards and staff dead.

Pakistan security forces continued to comb the site after gunfire was heard
hours after all the attackers had been declared dead.

Despite years of bloodshed, such an audacious assault, close to the centre of
the country's biggest city and its commercial capital, will send shockwaves
through a government and military intent on ending the insurgency.

A paramilitary spokesman said one policeman was injured in fresh firing.

"We have relaunched the operation and called in additional troops," Sibtain
Rizvi, spokesman for the Rangers paramilitary force, told the AFP news agency.

The attack was close to the airport's old terminal, used mainly for cargo and
VIP passengers. The gunmen - dressed in police uniforms, some wearing suicide
vests - used rocket propelled grenades and automatic weapons.

They entered from two sites, a gate on the main road, where they killed three
guards, and the international cargo terminal. A security source said their
target may have been an airliner which was boarding passengers.

All flights were diverted away but the main passenger terminal was successfully
evacuated and most travellers were kept well away from the clashes.

However, at least one plane - an Emirates flight to Dubai - was turned back from
the runway as the attack unfolded and its passengers faced an anxious wait
before they were disembarked.

"It could have been a lot worse. No planes were damaged although one of the
hangars was badly affected," said a civil aviation source.

At about 5am, Maj Gen Asim Bajwa, military spokesman declared the attack over.

"Update: Area cleared. No damage to aircraft, fire visible in pics was not plane
but a building, now extinguished. All vital assets intact," he said in a tweet.

Suspicion fell immediately on the Pakistan Taliban, which recently abandoned a
ceasefire after peace talks stalled. Their gunmen and suicide bombers have been
responsible for tens of thousands of deaths during a seven-year insurgency.

The Pakistan military has launched a string of operations against bases in North
Waziristan, raising fears of revenge terrorist attacks.

On Monday, Abdullah Bahar Mehsud, a senior commander, said the attack was
carried out to avenge the death of the group's former leader Hakimullah Mehsud
in a drone strike last year.

"As long as we are breathing, our attacks will be continuing till the end of our
lives," he said, speaking by telephone from an undisclosed location.

Umar Media, the media wing of the TTP, claimed on its Facebook page that six
militants were involved in the attack.

"The biggest reason for attacking Karachi airport is because it serves as the
biggest air logistics centre supplying goods for the Crusaders' war in
Afghanistan and Pakistan," said a statement.

Security officials said Uzbek nationals were among the attackers.

"Three militants blew themselves up and seven were killed by security forces,"
Rizwan Akhtar, the regional head of the paramilitary Rangers, said in televised
remarks. "The militants appear to be Uzbek."

The Islamic Movement of Uzbekistan is one of a number of foreign groups that
operates from bases along the border with Afghanistan in tandem with Pakistani
groups.

Additional reporting by Saleem Mehsud

LOAD-DATE: June 9, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTNS


                  Copyright 2014 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              90 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                        June 9, 2014 Monday 9:28 AM GMT

In pictures: 'Taliban' gunmen terror attack on Karachi airport leaves many dead;

The Pakistan Taliban have claimed responsibility for a brazen night-time assault
on Karachi airport

LENGTH: 16 words


The Pakistan Taliban have claimed responsibility for a brazen night-time assault
on Karachi airport

LOAD-DATE: June 9, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTNS


                  Copyright 2014 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              91 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                        June 9, 2014 Monday 7:06 AM GMT

'Taliban' gunmen terror attack on Karachi airport leaves at least 23 dead;
Latest developments: Pakistan says military operation still under way after
fresh gunfire at Karachi airport as Taliban declares responsibility for brazen
assault by at least 10 militants

BYLINE: By Rob Crilly Islamabad, and agencies

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 469 words


Pakistan's security forces relaunched their military operation at Karachi
airport on Monday morning after gunfire was heard hours after all the attackers
had been declared dead.

A spokesman for Pakistan Taliban told The Telegraph its gunmen were responsible
for the attack which began late on Sunday night and killed 13 security guards
and civilian staff.

Despite years of bloodshed, such a brazen assault, close to the centre of the
country's biggest city and its commercial capital, will send shockwaves through
a government and military intent on ending the insurgency.

A paramilitary spokesman said one policeman was injured in the fresh firing.

"We have relaunched the operation and called in additional troops," Sibtain
Rizvi, spokesman for the Rangers paramilitary force, told the AFP news agency.

The attack was close to the airport's old terminal, used mainly for cargo and
VIP passengers. The gunmen - dressed in police uniforms, some wearing suicide
vests - used rocket propelled grenades and automatic weapons.

A security source said their target may have been an airliner which was boarding
passengers.

Plumes of smoke spiralled into the air.

All flights were diverted but the main passenger terminal was successfully
evacuated and most travellers were kept well away from the clashes.

However, at least one plane - an Emirates flight to Dubai - was turned back from
the runway as the attack unfolded and its passengers faced an anxious wait
before they were disembarked.

At about 5am, Maj Gen Asim Bajwa, military spokesman declared the attack over.

"Update: Area cleared. No damage to aircraft, fire visible in pics was not plane
but a building, now extinguished. All vital assets intact," he said in a tweet.

Suspicion fell immediately on the Pakistan Taliban, which recently abandoned a
ceasefire after peace talks stalled. Their gunmen and suicide bombers have been
responsible for tens of thousands of deaths during a seven-year insurgency.

On Monday, Abdullah Bahar Mehsud, a senior commander, said the attack was
carried out to avenge the death of the group's former leader Hakimullah Mehsud
in a drone strike last year.

"As long as we are breathing, our attacks will be continuing till the end of our
lives," he said, speaking by telephone from an undisclosed location.

Security officials said Uzbek nationals were among the attackers.

"Three militants blew themselves up and seven were killed by security forces,"
Rizwan Akhtar, the regional head of the paramilitary Rangers, said in televised
remarks. "The militants appear to be Uzbek."

The Islamic Movement of Uzbekistan is one of a number of foreign groups that
operates from bases along the border with Afghanistan in tandem with Pakistani
groups.

Additional reporting by Saleem Mehsud, Islamabad

LOAD-DATE: June 9, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTNS


                  Copyright 2014 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              92 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring South Asia - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                             June 10, 2014 Tuesday

Afghan government condemns terrorist attacks in Pakistan

LENGTH: 223 words


Text of report by state-owned National Afghanistan TV on 9 June

[Presenter] The Afghan government has condemned in strong terms last night's
terrorist attack on Karachi International Airport and the suicide attack on
Shi'i pilgrims in Baluchistan of Pakistan, in which many people were killed and
injured.

A newsletter the Bakhtar news agency received from the presidential press office
in this regard reads: "The Afghan government believes that the continuation of
such attacks clearly proves that our region is faced with many insecurities.
Thus, we must all realize that using extremism and violence as a tool is not in
favour of any country. The people of Afghanistan, who have been suffering a lot
from such violence for many many years, ask Pakistan once again to honestly
cooperate in eliminating this calamitous phenomenon, which unfortunately also
victimizes the people of Pakistan today, so that our region will get to peace
and prosperity. Afghanistan once again calls for fight to ensure security in
both countries and for the need of cooperation between the two countries, and it
believes that without comprehensive fight against terrorism and without
refraining from use of the phenomenon as a tool, our region will not achieve
stability, peace and prosperity."

Source: National Afghanistan TV, Kabul, in Pashto 1530 gmt 9 Jun 14

LOAD-DATE: June 10, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2014 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              93 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring Middle East - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                             June 10, 2014 Tuesday

Pakistan envoy to Iran condemns terrorist attack on Shi'i pilgrims

LENGTH: 97 words


Pakistani Ambassador to Iran Noor Mohammad Jadmani has strongly condemned the
recent terrorist attack on the Shi'i pilgrims near the city of Taftan in
Pakistan near its border with Iran's Mirjaveh district and said that "Pakistan
will not allow any malevolent group to damage relations between the two
countries", ISNA reported on 10 June.

According to the report, Pakistani envoy said that the new governments in
Pakistan and Iran are resolved to consolidate the good neighbourly ties as well
as enhanced economic relations.

Source: ISNA website, Tehran, in Persian 0619gmt 10 Jun 14

LOAD-DATE: June 10, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2014 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              94 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring Middle East - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                             June 10, 2014 Tuesday

Iran condemns "terrorists' savage attack" on Iraq's Mosul

LENGTH: 117 words


Iranian Foreign Ministry Spokeswoman Marziyeh Afkham has condemned the "savage
attack by terrorists" on Iraqi city of Mosul on 10 June, Mehr news agency
reported on the same day.

According to Mehr, expressing concern over the trend of chain attacks by
"terrorists" on various parts of Iraq, Afkham said: "The threat of terrorism for
the world requires governments and international bodies to support the Iraqi
nation and government under the current risky situation."

Voicing Iran's support for Iraq, Afkham said that national unity, solidarity and
cooperation by various political parties was important and effective in fighting
"terrorists".

Source: Mehr news agency, Tehran, in Persian 1417 gmt 10 Jun 14

LOAD-DATE: June 10, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2014 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              95 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                            i-Independent Print Ltd

                                 June 10, 2014
                                 First Edition

Taliban threat of more terror attacks;
The News Matrix The day at a glance PAKISTAN

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 57 words


The Pakistani Taliban threatened more attacks yesterday after claiming
responsibility for a brazen five-hour assault on the country's busiest airport
in which gunmen disguised as police guards stormed the international airport in
Karachi and 28 people were killed.

The claim further diminished prospects for a resumption of peace talks. PAGE 8

LOAD-DATE: June 9, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: III


                    Copyright 2014 Independent Print Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              96 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                  M2 PressWIRE

                             June 10, 2014 Tuesday

Pakistan: Ban strongly condemns latest terrorist attacks

LENGTH: 223 words


June 9, 2014

Strongly condemning yesterday's attacks in Pakistan -- which reportedly left
more than 50 people dead in the wake of separate assaults on the country's main
airport in Karachi, and on busloads of Shia pilgrims in Baluchistan -- United
Nations Secretary-General Ban Ki-moon today urged the Government step up its
efforts to tackle terrorism and religious extremism.



In a statement issued by his spokesperson in New York, Mr. Ban deplored the
terrorist attacks, including the assault on Jinnah International Airport in
Karachi in which reportedly at least 29 people died, and the suicide attacks
targeting Shia pilgrims in Taftan, Baluchistan, which reportedly left at least
25 people dead and many more injured.

"The Secretary-General is deeply concerned by this upsurge of violence across
Pakistan," said the statement.

"While acknowledging the measures already taken to maintain security, he urges
the Government of Pakistan to further increase its efforts to address terrorism
and religious extremism, including with a view to protecting the rights of all
people to safely practice their religion, and to bring the perpetrators of such
attacks to justice."

The Secretary-General also expressed his solidarity with the Government and the
people of Pakistan and extended his deepest condolences to the families of the
victims.

LOAD-DATE: June 10, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newswire

JOURNAL-CODE: M2PW


                      Copyright 2014 Normans Media Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              97 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                        Progressive Media - Company News

                             June 10, 2014 Tuesday

Pakistan's Jinnah Airport reopens following terrorist attack

SECTION: SECURITY; Strategy And Business Planning

LENGTH: 246 words



HIGHLIGHT: Pakistan's Jinnah International Airport reopened, a day after a
deadly terrorist attack that killed at least 36 people.


Pakistan's Jinnah International Airport reopened, a day after a deadly terrorist
attack that killed at least 36 people.

The airport was attacked by ten militants on Sunday, who were armed with
automatic weapons, a rocket launcher, suicide vests and grenades.

Wearing uniforms of the Airports Security Force (ASF), the attackers used fake
IDs to enter the airport, broke through a security checkpoint in a van and
attacked the airport's cargo terminal.

The militants were planning to destroy and hijack aircraft, as well as take
hostages.

However, hundreds of Special Services Group commandos arrived on the scene and
began battling the militants, which resulted in a five-hour gun battle.

All ten attackers were killed in the assault, which also resulted in the deaths
of several airport workers, ten security force members and four employees of
Pakistani International Airlines. No passengers were harmed in the attack.

"The terrorists had a plan to bring down our aviation industry," said Mohyuddin
Ahmad Wani, a spokesman for prime minister Nawaz Sharif.

"The security force's valiant efforts defeated the terrorists and the national
assets were saved."

The Taliban have claimed responsibility for the attack, saying it was in
response to army's air strikes in areas along the Afghan border, where the
insurgents were based.

The airport was cleared and handed over to the ASF and the Civil Aviation
Authority of Pakistan, and it has been confirmed that the flights have resumed
service .

LOAD-DATE: June 11, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 2014 Progressive Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              98 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                                Scottish Express

                             June 10, 2014 Tuesday
                                   Edition 1;
                                    Scotland

Taliban terror attack on airport leaves 28 dead

BYLINE: Cyril Dixon

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 17

LENGTH: 319 words


THE Taliban claimed responsibility last night for a gun and rocket attack which
left 28 people dead at Pakistan's main airport.

The Islamic terrorist group said it sent its fighters into Jinnah International
Airport to warn the authorities: "We are still alive."

All 10 terrorists died after they stormed a passenger terminal and used machine
guns and rocketpropelled grenades in a five-hour fight with security guards.

They had entered the secure area of the airport on Sunday night, flashing fake
ID cards, and split into two groups of five.

Police said the other fatalities were security guards or terminal staff, not
passengers. At least 14 people were wounded.

Taliban spokesman Shahidullah Shahid said the raiders had intended to hijack a
number of aircraft.

But he said they also wanted to "react over the killings of innocent people in
bomb attacks on their villages".

It is believed that he was referring to air strikes by the authorities on
villages linked with terrorists. Shahid also warned the group would strike
again, adding: "Such attacks will continue until there is a permanent
ceasefire."

Qaim Ali Shah, Chief Minister of Pakistan's Sindh province, said the attackers
"were well trained" and had a "very well thought out" plan. Three were able to
detonate explosives and there were reports of two exceptionally large blasts.
But Mr Shah said they had failed to destroy or seize any aircraft and all the
attackers were killed.

The airport was evacuated and all flights were suspended and incoming planes
diverted elsewhere.

Among those who condemned the attack was cricketer turned politician Imran Khan,
who tweeted: "Airport terrorist attack shocking."

But he added: "Continuing security & intel lapses reflect a failure of the
govt's National Counter Terrorism Policy."

Karachi is Pakistan's largest city and main economic hub, attracting frequent
attacks from terror groups hoping to hit foreign investment.

LOAD-DATE: June 10, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Rockets taken from the dead terrorists after the battle for the airport

Picture: AFP / GETTY

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DXPscot


                       Copyright 2014 Express Newspapers
                              All Rights Reserved

                              99 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                 thetimes.co.uk

                       June 10, 2014 Tuesday 7:57 AM GMT

Pakistan pounds 'terrorist hideouts' after Karachi attack

BYLINE: Tony Bonnici

SECTION: ASIA

LENGTH: 420 words


Pakistan's military killed at least 15 people in a series of airstrikes this
morning after the deaths of 30 in a Taliban terror attack on Karachi airport.

The army claimed in a statement that "nine terrorist hideouts were destroyed" in
the raids in a militant-infested tribal district.

The death toll from this morning's strikes, in the Tirah valley area of Khyber
tribal district, could not be verified.

Pressure has built on the military to act quickly after Sunday's assault in the
heart of Pakistan's economic centre.

At least ten militants penetrated the airport to carry out the deadly attack
which has left the peace process in tatters and raised questions about how they
were able to infiltrate the hub.

The airstrikes are the latest in a succession of such attacks carried out by the
Pakistani military in the tribal belt this year after talks with the
Tehreek-e-Taliban Pakistan (TTP) broke down.

The last strikes were carried out in North Waziristan in late May, killing at
least 75 people and causing 58,000 people to flee from the district in fear of a
fuller ground offensive that has been anticipated for years.

The Khyber district itself was targeted previously in April in aerial bombing
raids that killed 37 people.

The district is believed to be home to several militant factions, most notably
Lashkar-e-Islam, led by the warlord Mangal Bagh, as well foreign fighters from
Central Asia.

Pakistan began talks with TTP in February and a ceasefire was agreed in March
but this broke down a month later.

Many believe that following the attack on Karachi the process is all but dead
and the government is under pressure to react - though the prime target remains
North Waziristan agency, the main stronghold of TTP and Al-Qaeda linked
militants.

An offensive in North Waziristan has been rumoured for years but analysts remain
cautious about whether the military has the capacity to attempt such a move
without assistance from the Afghan side of the border where militants are likely
to flee in the event of an attack.

Talat Masood, a retired general and security analyst, said there was pressure on
the government to target both North Waziristan as well as TTP sleeper cells in
major cities, especially Karachi, which has a large population from the tribal
areas.

"There is an urgent need to neutralise such attacks and the government should
take firm action in the areas which are their hideouts," he said. "A
simultaneous action should be taken against the militants in Karachi and
elsewhere along with North Waziristan."

LOAD-DATE: June 10, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBTTO


                     Copyright 2014 News International Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                              100 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                 thetimes.co.uk

                       June 10, 2014 Tuesday 7:31 AM GMT

Pakistan pounds 'terrorist hideouts' after Karachi attack

BYLINE: Tony Bonnici

SECTION: ASIA

LENGTH: 427 words


Pakistan's military killed at least 15 people this morning in a series of air
strikes following the deaths of 30 in a Taliban terror attack on Karachi
airport.

In a statement released by the army they claimed that "nine terrorist hideouts
were destroyed" in the raids in a militant-infested tribal district.

The death toll from this morning's strikes, in the Tirah Valley area of Khyber
tribal district, could not be verified.

Pressure has built on the military to act quickly following Sunday's assault in
the heart of Pakistan's economic centre.

At least 10 militants penetrated the airport to carry out the deadly attack
which has left the peace process in tatters and raised questions about how they
were able to infiltrate the hub.

The air strikes are the latest in a succession of such attacks carried out by
the Pakistani military in the tribal belt this year after talks with the
Tehreek-e-Taliban Pakistan (TTP) broke down.

The last were carried out in North Waziristan in late May, killing at least 75
people and causing some 58,000 people to flee from the district in fear of a
fuller ground offensive that has been anticipated for years.

The Khyber district itself was targeted previously in April in aerial bombing
that killed 37 people.

The district is believed to be home to several militant factions, most notably
Lashkar-e-Islam, led by warlord Mangal Bagh, as well foreign fighters from
Central Asia.

Pakistan began talks with the Tehreek-e-Taliban Pakistan (TTP) in February, with
a ceasefire agreed in March but breaking down a month later.

Many believe that following the attack on Karachi the process is all but dead
and the government is under pressure to react - though the prime target remains
North Waziristan agency, the main stronghold of TTP and Al-Qaeda linked
militants.

An offensive in North Waziristan has been rumoured for years but analysts remain
cautious about whether the military has the capacity to attempt such a move
without assistance from the Afghan side of the border where militants are likely
to flee in the event of an attack.

Talat Masood, a retired general and security analyst, said there was pressure on
the government to target both North Waziristan as well as TTP sleeper cells in
major cities, especially Karachi, which has a large population from the tribal
areas.

"There is an urgent need to neutralise such attacks and the government should
take firm action in the areas which are their hideouts," he said. "A
simultaneous action should be taken against the militants in Karachi and
elsewhere along with North Waziristan."

LOAD-DATE: June 10, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBTTO


                     Copyright 2014 News International Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                              101 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                       BBC Monitoring Europe - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                            June 11, 2014 Wednesday

Turkey's Ankara police warned of possible terrorist attacks

LENGTH: 264 words


Text of report by Turkish newspaper Vatan website on 11 June

A militant from ISIL [the Islamic State in Iraq and the Levant] came to carry
out attacks.

[Ankara] Police HQ sent a shock notice to all its units announcing that one
militant from ISIL, the radical religionist terrorist organization involved in
massacres in Syria and Iraq, had entered Turkey in order to carry out attacks.

Photo But No Name

In the warning announcement made by Police HQ it stated that the ISIL
terrorist's "name had not been determined" and gave instructions to intensify
security measures in crowded locations and at Western embassies. The notice,
sent by Ankara Police HQ, reads as follows:

"With the increase in information concerning likely attacks to be carried out
against our country your attention is drawn to the fact that attacks may be
carried out anywhere in our province particularly against foreign embassies, the
airport, sensitive sites, shopping centres, town squares, public transport
vehicles, state buildings and crowded locations." The police notice attached a
photograph of the suspect and called for measures to be increased and
supplemented.

Minister Davutoglu: We Got In Touch; They Are Fine

Speaking about Turkish haulage drivers in Mosul, Foreign Minister Ahmet
Davutoglu said: "We are working intensely so that they can get out of there as
quickly as possible and return to their country and families soonest. Some
contacts were made concerning them and these contacts told us they are fine.
This has consoled us for now."

Source: Vatan website, Istanbul, in Turkish 0000 gmt 11 Jun 14

LOAD-DATE: June 11, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2014 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              102 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring South Asia - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                            June 11, 2014 Wednesday

Bangladesh tightens security at all airports after Pakistan terror attacks

LENGTH: 239 words


Text of report published by Bangladesh newspaper New Age website on 11 June

Security has been tightened at all airports in Bangladesh after a deadly attack
on Karachi airport in Pakistan left 28 people killed and scores injured,
officials said on Tuesday.

The ministry of civil aviation at a meeting on Tuesday discussed various aspects
of flight operations, safety of officials and security systems at the airports.

The airport authorities were also working closely with nearly 25 agencies,
including intelligence and law enforcement units and to protect the facilities.

'We have enhanced security at all airports, domestic and international, and are
operating our flights smoothly,' said Group Captain Zakir Hossain, director of
Hazrat Shahjalal International Airport.

Official sources at the airport said security had been heightened since Monday
and patrols and vigilance intensified.

Various stakeholders and agencies are also monitoring airport security in a
coordinated manner, the officials said.

When approached, Airport Armed Police Battalion acting commanding officer
Rashedul Islam, who is in charge of law enforcement at HSIA, said additional
check points had been installed as a precaution.

'Besides law enforcers in uniform, plainclothes deployment has been increased
outside the airport,' he said, adding, 'We want to avoid causing panic in the
name of additional security.'

Source: New Age website, Dhaka, in English 11 Jun 14

LOAD-DATE: June 11, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2014 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              103 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                            Belfast Telegraph Online

                      June 11, 2014 Wednesday 10:52 PM GMT

UN condemns Iraq terror attacks

SECTION: WORLD

LENGTH: 120 words


The UN Security Council has deplored the terrorist attack in Iraq's
second-largest city of Mosul "in the strongest terms" and is demanding the
immediate return of all hostages abducted from the Turkish consulate.

It also condemned recent terrorist attacks elsewhere in Iraq aimed at
destabilising the country and region.

The council reaffirmed its support for the Iraqi people and government and
reiterated that "no act of violence or terrorism can reverse a path towards
peace, democracy and reconstruction in Iraq".

A press statement adopted today backed the Iraqi government's plans for a
national unity meeting to combat terrorist threats.

The UN envoy in Iraq is scheduled to brief the council at a closed meeting
tomorrow.

LOAD-DATE: June 12, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBBELT


           Copyright 2014 Independent News & Media (Northern Ireland)
                              All Rights Reserved

                              104 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                         The Evening Standard (London)

                            June 11, 2014 Wednesday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

Survivors tell of terror attacks by gunmen

BYLINE: Anna Davis

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 12,13

LENGTH: 460 words


TWO women from the Central African Republic have told how they were raped at
gunpoint by militia.

The survivors met aid workers from the charity TearFund last week and told their
stories for the first time.

Charity workers believe fighters in the area are using rape as a weapon, because
the method of attack is similar in so many of the cases.

Leontine Pizandji, 28, travelled to Bangui, the capital of CAR, for help after
she was raped by three armed fighters. She said that in March last year rebels
from the Séléka Alliance arrived in Bossangoa where she was living. She fled
when they started shooting but they were in cars and followed her, catching her
before she could escape into the bush.

She said one man knocked her chest with a gun while another man removed her
clothes and they all raped her until she fell unconscious.

"I walked overnight and I kept on walking and I reached a village and there I
found a small hospital... They gave me Amoxicillin. I took it but it wasn't
enough so I found a vehicle and they brought me into Bangui, but right now I'm
suffering, I'm suffering, it's so painful, it's in my belly, it's so painful,"
she said.

Another victim, Marie Kanza, 33, said fighters broke into her home and started
shooting. They dragged her and her two sisters out from under the beds and all
three women were raped by two men each. She said: "And when they finished with
us, they just left the room and they started shooting shooting shooting and then
they continued with the other girls that they would see on the road."

Asked about her hopes for the future, Marie said: "My hope for tomorrow is that
there is safety in CAR so that then maybe we can live peacefully and we can have
jobs."

TWENTY years ago Stephanie fled genocide in Rwanda and escaped into the
Democratic Republic of Congo, only to be raped there.

The 43-year-old has never previously spoken about her ordeal, but told her story
to the Evening Standard to highlight the plight of rape survivors.

She said: "We are dying inside, and to escape such death I believe we need to
talk. Now there is a process of healing taking place inside myself." Stephanie,
whose husband does not know what she has been through, hitched a lift with a
truck driver in 1994 as she tried to escape the violence in Rwanda. But the
driver raped her. She said: "The man was so cruel, an animal. He destroyed me
completely in terms of feelings toward any man."

She said that her attacker knew that in the "chaos" of war he would face no
consequences. Now a mother of four, Stephanie works for Tearfund with survivors
of sexual violence in DRC and in South Africa and will speak at this week's
summit to end sexual violence in conflict.

Stephanie's name has been changed.

'He was cruel, an animal. He destroyed me'

LOAD-DATE: June 11, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Dying inside: Stephanie was raped as she tried to flee genocide
"I'm suffering": rape victims Leontine Pizandji, left, and Marie Kanza

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: EST


                    Copyright 2014 Evening Standard Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              105 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                            Lancashire Evening Post

                            June 11, 2014 Wednesday

Mum tells of terror at savage dog attack

LENGTH: 275  words


A mum-of-three has told how she was left bleeding in the street, cradling her
injured dog, after two dogs savagely attacked her and her pets.

Lorna Ward, 48, of Howarth Road, Ashton, Preston, was left with a scar on her
hand and her pet Shih Tzu, Max, suffered a serious leg injury when they were set
upon in November last year.

The owner of the dogs, Hendrix James Michael Dawson, 39, of Falcon Street,
Preston, has pleaded guilty to having a dog dangerously out of control in a
public place, and is expected to be sentenced at Preston Crown Court on June 17.

Today Lorna described how she, her husband Joe, 56, their three children,
Esther, 12, Naomi, 11 and Joshua, eight, had taken their dogs Pebbles and Max
for a walk in Haslam Park in Ashton.

She said: "We had a lovely time playing around for a bit and then as we came to
leave the park we walked a route that passed a bakery.

"I saw the two dogs outside, with no leads. We felt uncomfortable straight away
when we saw them roaming about and we picked our dogs up. But as I grabbed Max
they attacked."

Frantically Lorna and Joe tried to separate the animals.

Lorna added: "As I tried to separate them one of the dogs bit my hand. There was
blood everywhere. It was chaos. I was terrified they would set on the children.
They saw everything and were terrified. They love our dogs."

Passers by called police and an ambulance took Lorna to the Royal Preston
hospital, while Max was taken to a vet.

She said: "When I came home I had to sleep on the sofa cuddling Max.

"People should know their own dogs. Those animals should have been muzzled or at
the east on a lead. Things could have been a lot worse."

LOAD-DATE: June 11, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: WLEP


                       Copyright 2014 Johnston Press Plc
                              All Rights Reserved

                              106 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                   MailOnline

                      June 11, 2014 Wednesday 9:41 PM GMT

UN deplores and condemns terrorist attacks in Iraq

BYLINE: ASSOCIATED PRESS

SECTION: AP

LENGTH: 125 words


UNITED NATIONS (AP) - The U.N. Security Council has deplored the terrorist
attack in Iraq's second-largest city of Mosul "in the strongest terms" and is
demanding the immediate return of all hostages abducted from the Turkish
consulate.

It also condemned recent terrorist attacks elsewhere in Iraq aimed at
destabilizing the country and region.

The council reaffirmed its support for the Iraqi people and government and
reiterated that "no act of violence or terrorism can reverse a path towards
peace, democracy and reconstruction in Iraq."

The press statement adopted Wednesday backed the government's plans for a
national unity meeting to combat terrorist threats.

The U.N. envoy in Iraq is scheduled to brief the council at a closed meeting
Thursday.

LOAD-DATE: June 11, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDM


                   Copyright 2014 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              107 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring Middle East - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                             June 12, 2014 Thursday

Iranian, Iraqi foreign ministers discuss terrorist attack in Iraq

LENGTH: 386 words


Text of report in English by Iranian conservative, privately-owned Fars News
Agency website

Tehran, 12 June: Iranian Foreign Minister Mohammad Javad Zarif and his Iraqi
counterpart Hoshyar Zebari in a phone talk discussed the latest developments in
the region, specially the recent terrorist operations in Iraq. During the phone
conversation on Wednesday, Zarif termed the terrorist Islamic State of Iraq and
Levant (ISIL) and Takfiri groups as enemies of all Iraqi people, and stressed
the need for effective international support for the Iraqi government and people
in the fight against terrorists.

He condemned the recent terrorist attacks which killed and wounded a number of
Iraqi citizens, and announced Iran's support for the Iraqi government and people
in their campaign against terrorism.

Zebari who is in Athens, Greece, to take part in the Joint Arab League (AL) and
European Union (EU) ministerial meeting presented a report to Zarif on the
latest security status of Iraq, and appreciated the Iranian foreign minister for
his phone call.

He also appreciated Iran for its political and spiritual support for the Iraqi
government and nation, and said, "The Iraqi nation and government are determined
to resist against all types of terrorism."

The two foreign ministers agreed in their phone talk that the ISIL and the
Takfiri groups are the enemies of all Iraqi people.

Just days ago, the Takfiri militants gained control of parts of the country's
Northern and North-central areas, including the city of Mosul. On 10 June, the
militants took control of Nineveh Province, forcing "over 500,000 people in and
around" its capital Mosul to flee, according to Geneva-based International
Organization for Migration.

Reports also indicated that, on 11 June, the militants seized the city of
Tikrit; shortly afterwards, however, Iraqi forces managed to recapture the
central city, located roughly half way between Baghdad and Mosul.

Meanwhile, UN Secretary General Ban Ki-moon called on the international
community to support the Iraqi government in its fight against the militants.

Takfiri groups are reportedly entering Iraq from neighbouring Syria and Saudi
Arabia to undermine security in the country.

Maliki has vowed to continue fighting the militants.

Source: Fars News Agency website, Tehran, in English 1155 gmt 12 Jun 14

LOAD-DATE: June 12, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2014 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              108 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                               The Sun (England)

                             June 12, 2014 Thursday
                                   Edition 1;
                                    Ireland

? THE terrorist attack in Karachi [...];
SPORTS UPDATE

SECTION: SPORT; Pg. 47

LENGTH: 71 words


? THE terrorist attack in Karachi Airport on Sunday has led to Ireland's
proposed one-day internationals against Pakistan being called off.

The tragic event that left 37 people dead means William Porterfield (right) and
his men have to wait for a chance to repeat their famous 2007 World Cup win over
Pakistan.

Cricket Ireland said: "With the recent tragic events at Karachi Airport, the
series will now be deferred to a later date."

LOAD-DATE: June 12, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: SUN


                    Copyright 2014 NEWS GROUP NEWSPAPERS LTD
                              All Rights Reserved

                              109 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                               The Sun (England)

                             June 12, 2014 Thursday
                                   Edition 1;
                                    Scotland

I'm going to die;
HORRIFIC TERROR ATTACK BY PAL

BYLINE: IRINA WILKIE

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 29

LENGTH: 465 words


BATTERED Megan Baker feared she was about to die at the hands of a crazed pal
who tied her up in bondage gear.

Scheming Scott McCrindle, 42, wormed his way into her home by claiming mutual
friends were on their way to visit.

But once inside, the sexobsessed thug suddenly hurled a tin of paint over her
then tied her wrists behind her back with fur-covered leather straps.

Megan, 39, from Dumfries, told how he threw a blanket over her head before
shoving his knee into her face while screaming demands for cash.

Savage She said: "I told him he was suffocating me.

"He was shouting that he would chop me up into little pieces and that he would
make me disappear - I was convinced he was going to murder me."

Megan spoke out after McCrindle appeared at Dumfries Sheriff Court this week to
be sentenced over the savage attack in December. At an earlier hearing, he
admitted the terrifying assault on Megan, as well as stealing bank cards and
keys.

Megan had known McCrindle for eight years after dating his brother Garry, 44,
before they recently split up. She let McCrindle into her home when he told her
mutual pals were coming round to drop off a cooker.

But he soon began acting "strangely" and started mixing two pots of paint which
had been set aside for redecorating in her kitchen. Megan said: "I knew there
was something weird going on - my sixth sense told me something wasn't quite
right.

"He started talking about money and calling me a liar.

"I turned to walk away and that is when he dropped the pot of paint over my
head." Frightened Megan tried to grab her phone to call for help, but McCrindle
snatched it from her hand and threw it away.

Then he reached for the bondage straps - which Megan claims he left at her home
months earlier.

Struggle He used them to bind her hands together behind her back.

She said: "I was on the floor and he pushed his knee into my face and demanded
money." Horrified Megan blacked out and only came around later.

But her ordeal wasn't over and McCrindle forced her back on to the floor -
before fleeing her home with her bank cards.

She managed to struggle out of the room and turn her back to the front door in
order to turn the handle with her bound hands.

An elderly neighbour raised the alarm and the police were at the scene within
minutes. Megan added: "I have no idea how long the attack went on for in total
because it is all just a huge blur.

"All I do know is that I went through hell.

"For months afterwards, when people chapped my door, I would crawl into a corner
to protect myself.

"I will never be able to trust again."

Sheriff Mhairi McTaggart deferred McCrindle's case until next month due to a
missing background report.

irina.wilkie@the-sun.co.uk

?I told him he was suffocating me. He shouted that he'd chop me into little
pieces &make me disappear.?

LOAD-DATE: June 12, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Ordeal ... brute used paint and bondadge straps in assault
Sentence ... Dumfries court
Cash demands ... thug McCrindle

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: SUNscot


                    Copyright 2014 NEWS GROUP NEWSPAPERS LTD
                              All Rights Reserved

                              110 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                               The Sun (England)

                             June 12, 2014 Thursday
                                   Edition 1;
                                Northern Ireland

THE terrorist attack in Karachi [...];
SPORTS UPDATE

SECTION: SPORT; Pg. 70

LENGTH: 21 words


? THE terrorist attack in Karachi Airport on Sunday has led to Ireland's oneday
internationals against Pakistan being called off.

LOAD-DATE: June 12, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: SUN


                    Copyright 2014 NEWS GROUP NEWSPAPERS LTD
                              All Rights Reserved

                              111 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                       BBC Monitoring Trans Caucasus Unit
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                              June 13, 2014 Friday

Georgians caught in Iraq during terrorist attack

LENGTH: 118 words


Nearly 30 Georgian citizens have been evacuated from the conflict zone in Iraq,
Rustavi 2 TV reported on 13 June.

Twenty-six Georgians, who work at the international airport in Mosol, were
evacuated after the airport was attacked by the Islamic State in Iraq and the
Levant (ISIS/ISIL), the television reported. Five of the group, however, were
later detained by the Iraqi immigration service due to problems with their
documents.

The Georgian diplomat responsible for Iraq, Consul Berdia Bekauri, told Rustavi
2 that all the Georgian citizens have been taken "outside of the conflict zone"
and the embassy is in contact with the five being detained.

Source: Rustavi-2 TV, Tbilisi, in Georgian 1103gmt 13 Jun 14

LOAD-DATE: June 13, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2014 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              112 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring Middle East - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                              June 13, 2014 Friday

Iran ready to send medical aid to victims of "terrorist attacks" in Iraq

LENGTH: 106 words


Minister of Health, Treatment and Medical Education Hasan Qazizadeh-Hashemi in a
telephone conversation with his Iraqi counterpart stated Iran's readiness to
send medical aid to the victims of the terrorist attacks in Iraq, Mehr news
agency reported on 13 June.

Accordion to the report, Hasan Qazizadeh-Hashemi condemned Takfiri groups for
the attacks on defenceless Iraqi people.

Iraq's Minister of Health, for his part, thanked Iran's readiness for providing
medical assistance to the Iraqi people and expressed hope that terrorism will be
eradicated by the people's unity.

Source: Mehr news agency, Tehran, in Persian 0710 gmt 13 Jun 14

LOAD-DATE: June 13, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2014 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              113 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                            Belfast Telegraph Online

                      June 14, 2014 Saturday 10:50 AM GMT

Kicked, punched, abused by racist thugs... now I'm scared to work my pitch;
City centre stallholder tells of his terror over hate attack

BYLINE: By Claire Williamson

SECTION: NORTHERN IRELAND

LENGTH: 426 words


A Turkish man has told of his terror as he was assaulted in broad daylight in a
racist attack.

Musa Gulusen works at a stall in Royal Avenue beside the clothes shop H&M.

The 45-year-old, who has lived in Belfast for more than 20 years, says he is
subjected to racist abuse almost every day - but it goes "in one ear and out the
other".

However, on Wednesday he was assaulted by two men who punched him to the ground.

He said: "Two fellas were passing my stall, they called me a P*** b******.

"I thought he was joking me or messing me about. I said: 'What did you say, do
you know me?'

"And then I'm on the ground and another fella kicked me. They ripped my shirt
and punched my face. My wrist was broken as well."

Mr Gulusen had £120 in his pocket which diappeared during the assault.

The attack is the latest in a spate of hate crimes across the city on ethnic
minorities and following the controversy over Pastor James McConnell's comments
about Islam.

The surge in attacks prompted thousands to gather in Belfast for an anti-racism
rally last weekend.

The stallholder had to go to hospital for treatment for his injuries. Despite
the attack, he was back at work, and there has been an outpouring of support
from local people.

But he admitted he was "scared" of returning, and he was "nervous looking over
his back".

"I want to say thank you very much to all Belfast people and city centre people
and workers who helped me.

"This is the centre for everybody, it's not mine it's not yours, it's for
everybody."

Even with the support, Mr Gulusen feels afraid. He said: "I feel very sad. It's
my life.

"I pay everything, tax, insurance I have a licence and I'm still working today.
I had a sick line but I have to make money. I have to work - there is no
choice."

Mr Gulusen said the only people he blamed for what happened to him was his
attackers.

He does not think Northern Ireland is a racist country and has no plans to
leave. He said: "My girlfriend is from here, my friends are from here, and my
daughter was born here - just one person gives Belfast a bad name."

The determined worker said he would like to ask his attackers "why?" He said:
"Why racism? Why me? Why anybody?

"Where does the reason come from? OK, you don't like my colour, walk away. You
don't like me, go to work. It's not your business. I can't change it.

"What I am is none of your business. I am here 20 years and just for a couple of
stupid people, I'm not going to be scared of them," he added.

Two men aged 18 and 25 were arrested on Wednesday evening and were later
released pending further inquiries.

LOAD-DATE: June 14, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBBELT


           Copyright 2014 Independent News & Media (Northern Ireland)
                              All Rights Reserved

                              114 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                              birminghammail.co.uk

                        June 15, 2014 Sunday 3:47 PM GMT

Birmingham pub bombings campaigners 'sickened' by paramilitary funeral for man
allegedly linked to 1974 terrorist attack;
Twitter photo shows Republican-style salute to Seamus McLoughlin, named as a
former IRA activist

BYLINE: By Paul Suart

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 354 words


The paramilitary style funeral given to a man with alleged links to the
Birmingham pub bombings has been branded "sickening" by a justice campaigner.

Shots were fired over the tricolour-draped coffin of Seamus McLoughlin at a
relative's home in the Ardoyne district of North Belfast on Wednesday night.

It was claimed that dissident republican group Oglaigh na hEireann fired the
shots.

A picture posted on Twitter showed two masked men in paramilitary style clothing
aiming two pistols over the coffin while another man similarly dressed stood at
the head of the casket.

Sources close to the masked men claimed McLoughlin was a "native of Ardoyne" and
one-time "OC [officer commanding] of the IRA in England".

McLoughlin was also alleged to have had links to the Birmingham pub bombings
which killed 21 people in 1974.

Brian Hambleton, who lost his sister Maxine in the atrocity, said he was
"shell-shocked" when he saw the funeral picture in a newspaper report.

"It sickened me when I saw the picture," he said.

"When I first saw it I had to look at the comments next to it because I thought
I was looking at a picture of the past.

"It was like I was being whisked back to the 1970s."

Mr Hambleton, who runs the Justice for the 21 campaign group alongside his
sister Julie, added: "McLoughlin was absolutely a major player in the IRA.

"Here we are with his coffin being celebrated with an IRA style send-off with
guns.

"All this was supposed to have been banned decades ago yet they've allowed it to
happen.

"It's as if the police have turned a blind eye for this to happen so there is no
further trouble."

It is understood McLoughlin died in Dublin at the beginning of the week before
being brought North for the wake. Sources claimed on Thursday that McLoughlin
had not been tied in with any so-called dissident groups.

Six men, known as the Birmingham Six, were given life sentences for the bombings
and spent 17 years in jail before their convictions were quashed by the Court of
Appeal in 1991.

The IRA denied the attacks on The Mulberry Bush and The Tavern In The Town at
the time.

The real bombers have never been brought to justice.

LOAD-DATE: June 16, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBEM


                         Copyright 2014 Trinity Mirror
                              All Rights Reserved

                              115 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                   MailOnline

                        June 15, 2014 Sunday 9:00 PM GMT

'Intervene in Iraq and Syria or Britain will face terror attacks': Blair warns
UK should get involved as he defends decision to topple Saddam

BYLINE: TOM MCTAGUE, MAIL ONLINE DEPUTY POLITICAL EDITOR

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 1539 words



     ·    Former PM says Middle East terror will return to UK if it's not faced
          down
     ·    Calls for intervention in Iraq to stop ISIS terrorists taking Baghdad
     ·    Says biggest single threat for the UK is returning British jihadist
          fighters
     ·    But Blair's deputy Lord Prescott accuses him of acting like a
          'crusader'
     ·    Prescott 'Put on a white sheet and red cross and we're back to
          crusades'
     ·    Blair also slammed by Farage, Salmond, Clare Short and Paddy Ashdown
     ·    Today, a string of explosions in Baghdad has killed at least 15 people


Tony Blair this morning said Britain needed to take action in Iraq and Syria -
or face terror attacks in at home.

The former Prime Minister said the UK needed to intervene to stop a 'total
disaster'. He insisted that he was not calling for troops on the ground - but
suggested the 'selective use of air power' was one option on the table.

His comments came before continuing violence today as a string of explosions in
Baghdad killed at least 15 people and it was reported insurgents had overran the
north-western Iraqi town of Tal Afar.

Mr Blair said: 'If we don't deal with the Syria issue then the problems are not
just going to be for Syria and for the region, the problems are actually going
to come back and they are going to hit us very directly even in our own
country.'

He added: 'If you talk to security services in France and Germany and the UK,
they will tell you their biggest single worry today returning jihadists fighters
- our own citizens by the way - from Syria.

'We have to look at Syria, and Iraq and the region in context. We have to
understand what's going on there and engage.'

He said that didn't mean 'ground troops' but it we shouldn't 'wash our hands of
it and walk away'.

Mr Blair's remarks this morning come as extremist fighters from the
al-Qaida-inspired 'Islamic State of Iraq and the Levant' bear down on Baghdad.

Speaking on the BBC's Andrew Marr show Mr Blair said an ISIS victory would be a
'total disaster and it mustn't be allowed to happen'.

He said: 'We are going to have to engage with it and if we don't then the
consequences will come back on us.'

Speaking to the Murnaghan show on Sky later, he added: 'The people who are
dealing with are going to pull us into this whether we like it or not.

'We are going to have to take an active role in Syria or Iraq in shaping
events.'

He said Britain should 'support' the United States if they take military action
in Iraq. 'It's in our interest to stop these jihadists.'

'They are prepared to fight us and they will if they are not stopped,' he added.

But Mr Blair's intervention was slammed by critics of his 2003 decision to take
Britain to war against Iraq.

The former Deputy Prime Minister Lord Prescott said: 'He says he's disappointed
with what has happened in Iraq, it wasn't as he thought it might happen, but he
wants to invade somewhere else now.'

He accused Mr Blair of wanting to force western democracy on to Arab countries.

'When you want to go and do these regime changes, you're back to what Bush
called a crusade.

'And I said, actually, in a manner of form, put on a white sheet and a red
cross, and we're back to the crusades.

'It's all about religion; in these countries it's gone on for a thousand years.'

The former Labour minister Clare Short said Mr Blair had been 'absolutely,
consistently wrong, wrong, wrong' on the issue, and branded him a 'complete
American neocon'.

'More bombing will not solve it, it will just exacerbate it,' she said.

Ukip leader Nigel Farage dismissed Mr Blair as an 'embarrassment' who should
hold his tongue.

'The lesson is not, as Mr Blair implies, that the West should intervene in
Syria, let alone once more in Iraq.

'The lesson is that the West should declare an end to the era of military
intervention abroad.'

Scotland's First Minister Alex Salmond added his voice to the chorus accusing Mr
Blair of 'breathtaking amnesia' over his reasons for invading Iraq.

He said: 'Tony Blair has now claimed that the invasion of Iraq was about whether
or not Saddam Hussein remained in power. Eleven years ago he said it was about
weapons of mass destruction.

'No reinterpretation of history will absolve the former prime minister of a
direct line of responsibility for this sequence of disasters.'

And Sir Christopher Meyer, Britain's ambassador to the US from 1997 to 2003,
said the decision to topple Saddam was 'perhaps the most significant reason' for
the sectarian violence now ripping through Iraq.

'There are many reasons for this disastrous state of affairs. Perhaps the most
significant is the decision taken more than 10 years ago by President George W
Bush and Prime Minister Tony Blair to unseat Saddam Hussein without thinking
through the consequences for Iraq of the dictator's removal.'

The decision to bar members of Saddam's Ba'ath party from top jobs and
disbanding the army - one former member of which now leads the Isis surge, were
among the most serious errors, he said.

'We are reaping what we sowed in 2003. This is not hindsight. We knew in the
run-up to war that the overthrow of Saddam Hussein would seriously destabilise
Iraq after 24 years of his iron rule.

'For all his evil, he kept a lid on sectarian violence. Bush and Blair were
repeatedly warned by their advisers and diplomats to make dispositions
accordingly.

'But, as we now know, very little was done until the last minute; and what was
done... simply made things far worse.'

Last night Mr Blair published an essay online, defending his decision to go to
war - and arguing that the current violence is the 'predictable' result of the
West's failure to intervene in Syria.

US president Barack Obama is considering a range of military options - said to
include air strikes - over the coming days.

Today, a string of explosions in Baghdad has killed at least 15 people and
wounded more than 30.

In the city centre, a car bomb killed 10 and wounded 21.

After nightfall, another explosion hit the area, killing two and wounding five.

The third went off near a falafel shop in the city's sprawling Sadr City
district, killing three and wounding seven.

Baghdad has seen an escalation in suicide and car bombings in recent months,
mostly targeting Shiite neighbourhoods or security forces.

Meanwhile Iran - a key ally of Nouri al-Maliki's Shia-dominated administration
in Baghdad - indicated that it was ready to provide assistance.

Iranian president Hassan Rouhani said his country had 'no option but to confront
terrorism' and was 'ready to provide assistance within international law' if
requested.

And Britain is to give £3 million of aid to Iraq. International Development
Secretary Justine Greening said the initial tranche of emergency cash would
allow agencies to supply water, sanitation, medicine, hygiene kits and basic
household items.

Mr Blair rejected as 'bizarre' arguments that Iraq would be more stable and
peaceful today if the US-backed war, which claimed the lives of 179 UK
personnel, had not happened.

He said that unless the international community was prepared to overcome public
reluctance and confront the extremists 'hard, with force', the consequences
would be more serious still.

Mr Blair - now a Middle East peace envoy - said Iraq was 'in mortal danger' but
pinned the blame on the sectarianism of the Maliki government and the spread of
Syria's brutal three-year civil war.

He hit back at critics of the controversial war in an eight-page essay on his
website, saying al-Qaida had been a 'beaten force' in Iraq as recently as three
years ago, but the chance of peace was squandered by Baghdad.

'By all means argue about the wisdom of earlier decisions,' he wrote.

'But it is the decisions now that will matter.

'The choices are all pretty ugly, it is true. But for three years we have
watched Syria descend into the abyss and as it is going down, it is slowly but
surely wrapping its cords around us, pulling us down with it.

'We have to put aside the differences of the past and act now to save the
future.

'Where the extremists are fighting, they have to be countered hard, with force.'

It did not mean another invasion, he said.

'There are masses of responses we can make short of that. But they need to know
that wherever they're engaged in terror, we will be hitting them.'

He said the Iraq assault had been planned and prepared in the Syria conflict
zone and was the 'predictable and malign effect' of allowing that situation to
be exploited by extremists.

Air strikes against the Assad regime had been on the table last summer over its
use of chemical weapons but a Commons vote against the idea helped end the
prospect of action.

'I understand all the reasons following Afghanistan and Iraq why public opinion
was so hostile to involvement,' Mr Blair wrote.

'Action in Syria did not and need not be as in those military engagements. But
every time we put off action, the action we will be forced to take will be
ultimately greater.'

He wrote: 'The moderate and sensible elements of the Syria opposition should be
given the support they need; Assad should know he cannot win an outright
victory; and the extremist groups, whether in Syria or Iraq, should be targeted,
in coordination and with the agreement of the Arab countries.

'However unpalatable this may seem, the alternative is worse.'

LOAD-DATE: June 15, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDM


                   Copyright 2014 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              116 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                   MailOnline

                        June 15, 2014 Sunday 5:38 PM GMT

'Intervene in Iraq and Syria or Britain will face terror attacks': Blair warns
UK should get involved as he defends decision to topple Saddam

BYLINE: TOM MCTAGUE, MAIL ONLINE DEPUTY POLITICAL EDITOR

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 1414 words



     ·    Former PM says Middle East terror will return to UK if it's not faced
          down
     ·    Calls for intervention in Iraq to stop ISIS terrorists taking Baghdad
     ·    Says biggest single threat for the UK is returning British jihadist
          fighters
     ·    But Blair's deputy Lord Prescott accuses him of acting like a
          'crusader'
     ·    Prescott 'Put on a white sheet and red cross and we're back to
          crusades'
     ·    Blair also slammed by Farage, Salmond, Clare Short and Paddy Ashdown


Tony Blair this morning said Britain needed to take action in Iraq and Syria -
or face terror attacks in at home.

The former Prime Minister said the UK needed to intervene to stop a 'total
disaster'. He insisted that he was not calling for troops on the ground - but
suggested the 'selective use of air power' was one option on the table.

Mr Blair said: 'If we don't deal with the Syria issue then the problems are not
just going to be for Syria and for the region, the problems are actually going
to come back and they are going to hit us very directly even in our own
country.'

He added: 'If you talk to security services in France and Germany and the UK,
they will tell you their biggest single worry today returning jihadists fighters
- our own citizens by the way - from Syria.

'We have to look at Syria, and Iraq and the region in context. We have to
understand what's going on there and engage.'

He said that didn't mean 'ground troops' but it we shouldn't 'wash our hands of
it and walk away'.

Mr Blair's remarks this morning come as extremist fighters from the
al-Qaida-inspired 'Islamic State of Iraq and the Levant' bear down on Baghdad.

Speaking on the BBC's Andrew Marr show Mr Blair said an ISIS victory would be a
'total disaster and it mustn't be allowed to happen'.

He said: 'We are going to have to engage with it and if we don't then the
consequences will come back on us.'

Speaking to the Murnaghan show on Sky later, he added: 'The people who are
dealing with are going to pull us into this whether we like it or not.

'We are going to have to take an active role in Syria or Iraq in shaping
events.'

He said Britain should 'support' the United States if they take military action
in Iraq. 'It's in our interest to stop these jihadists.'

'They are prepared to fight us and they will if they are not stopped,' he added.

But Mr Blair's intervention was slammed by critics of his 2003 decision to take
Britain to war against Iraq.

The former Deputy Prime Minister Lord Prescott said: 'He says he's disappointed
with what has happened in Iraq, it wasn't as he thought it might happen, but he
wants to invade somewhere else now.'

He accused Mr Blair of wanting to force western democracy on to Arab countries.

'When you want to go and do these regime changes, you're back to what Bush
called a crusade.

'And I said, actually, in a manner of form, put on a white sheet and a red
cross, and we're back to the crusades.

'It's all about religion; in these countries it's gone on for a thousand years.'

The former Labour minister Clare Short said Mr Blair had been 'absolutely,
consistently wrong, wrong, wrong' on the issue, and branded him a 'complete
American neocon'.

'More bombing will not solve it, it will just exacerbate it,' she said.

Ukip leader Nigel Farage dismissed Mr Blair as an 'embarrassment' who should
hold his tongue.

'The lesson is not, as Mr Blair implies, that the West should intervene in
Syria, let alone once more in Iraq.

'The lesson is that the West should declare an end to the era of military
intervention abroad.'

Scotland's First Minister Alex Salmond added his voice to the chorus accusing Mr
Blair of 'breathtaking amnesia' over his reasons for invading Iraq.

He said: 'Tony Blair has now claimed that the invasion of Iraq was about whether
or not Saddam Hussein remained in power. Eleven years ago he said it was about
weapons of mass destruction.

'No reinterpretation of history will absolve the former prime minister of a
direct line of responsibility for this sequence of disasters.'

And Sir Christopher Meyer, Britain's ambassador to the US from 1997 to 2003,
said the decision to topple Saddam was 'perhaps the most significant reason' for
the sectarian violence now ripping through Iraq.

'There are many reasons for this disastrous state of affairs. Perhaps the most
significant is the decision taken more than 10 years ago by President George W
Bush and Prime Minister Tony Blair to unseat Saddam Hussein without thinking
through the consequences for Iraq of the dictator's removal.'

The decision to bar members of Saddam's Ba'ath party from top jobs and
disbanding the army - one former member of which now leads the Isis surge, were
among the most serious errors, he said.

'We are reaping what we sowed in 2003. This is not hindsight. We knew in the
run-up to war that the overthrow of Saddam Hussein would seriously destabilise
Iraq after 24 years of his iron rule.

'For all his evil, he kept a lid on sectarian violence. Bush and Blair were
repeatedly warned by their advisers and diplomats to make dispositions
accordingly.

'But, as we now know, very little was done until the last minute; and what was
done... simply made things far worse.'

Last night Mr Blair published an essay online, defending his decision to go to
war - and arguing that the current violence is the 'predictable' result of the
West's failure to intervene in Syria.

US president Barack Obama is considering a range of military options - said to
include air strikes - over the coming days.

Meanwhile Iran - a key ally of Nouri al-Maliki's Shia-dominated administration
in Baghdad - indicated that it was ready to provide assistance.

Iranian president Hassan Rouhani said his country had 'no option but to confront
terrorism' and was 'ready to provide assistance within international law' if
requested.

And Britain is to give £3 million of aid to Iraq. International Development
Secretary Justine Greening said the initial tranche of emergency cash would
allow agencies to supply water, sanitation, medicine, hygiene kits and basic
household items.

Mr Blair rejected as 'bizarre' arguments that Iraq would be more stable and
peaceful today if the US-backed war, which claimed the lives of 179 UK
personnel, had not happened.

He said that unless the international community was prepared to overcome public
reluctance and confront the extremists 'hard, with force', the consequences
would be more serious still.

Mr Blair - now a Middle East peace envoy - said Iraq was 'in mortal danger' but
pinned the blame on the sectarianism of the Maliki government and the spread of
Syria's brutal three-year civil war.

He hit back at critics of the controversial war in an eight-page essay on his
website, saying al-Qaida had been a 'beaten force' in Iraq as recently as three
years ago, but the chance of peace was squandered by Baghdad.

'By all means argue about the wisdom of earlier decisions,' he wrote.

'But it is the decisions now that will matter.

'The choices are all pretty ugly, it is true. But for three years we have
watched Syria descend into the abyss and as it is going down, it is slowly but
surely wrapping its cords around us, pulling us down with it.

'We have to put aside the differences of the past and act now to save the
future.

'Where the extremists are fighting, they have to be countered hard, with force.'

It did not mean another invasion, he said.

'There are masses of responses we can make short of that. But they need to know
that wherever they're engaged in terror, we will be hitting them.'

He said the Iraq assault had been planned and prepared in the Syria conflict
zone and was the 'predictable and malign effect' of allowing that situation to
be exploited by extremists.

Air strikes against the Assad regime had been on the table last summer over its
use of chemical weapons but a Commons vote against the idea helped end the
prospect of action.

'I understand all the reasons following Afghanistan and Iraq why public opinion
was so hostile to involvement,' Mr Blair wrote.

'Action in Syria did not and need not be as in those military engagements. But
every time we put off action, the action we will be forced to take will be
ultimately greater.'

He wrote: 'The moderate and sensible elements of the Syria opposition should be
given the support they need; Assad should know he cannot win an outright
victory; and the extremist groups, whether in Syria or Iraq, should be targeted,
in coordination and with the agreement of the Arab countries.

'However unpalatable this may seem, the alternative is worse.'

LOAD-DATE: June 15, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDM


                   Copyright 2014 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              117 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                   MailOnline

                        June 15, 2014 Sunday 4:35 PM GMT

'Fans and players at 2022 Qatar World Cup at high risk of terror attack': Claims
damning report told of threat weeks before host nation was announced

BYLINE: RICHARD SPILLETT

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 515 words



     ·    Internal report 'warned of al-Qaeda threat to planned football
          tournament'
     ·    Fifa bosses 'were told of the risk' before they awarded country World
          Cup
     ·    Report found other countries bidding had 'low to moderate' risk, it is
          said
     ·    It emerges investigator looking into collusion was later given job in
          Qatar


Fifa chiefs awarded the 2022 World Cup to Qatar despite being told it had the
highest risk of terrorist attack of any of the bidding countries, it was
reported today.

A devastating report into the security situation in the Gulf state found there
was a 'high risk' of terror plots due to al-Qaeda's presence in nearby
countries, it is claimed.

It is believed world football's governing body handed the 2022 tournament to the
Arab nation despite other countries being assessed as having a 'low to moderate
risk', in a process which has since been dogged by allegations of corruption.

Qatar went up against Australia, Japan, South Korea and the US as bidding
countries to host the tournament in a process which began in 2009 and ended in
2010, when the Middle Eastern state was awarded the World Cup.

In a series of explosive revelations in recent weeks, the Sunday Times has
reported that leaked emails cast grave doubts on the fairness of the bidding
process.

The newspaper today claimed that a report by Andre Pruis, the man in charge of
security at the 2010 World Cup, found 'it would be very difficult to deal with a
major incident in such an environment [as Qatar] without having to cancel the
event'.

Despite Mr Pruis praising the security credentials of the other bidding
countries, Qatar was later awarded the tournament at a lavish ceremony.

It was also alleged today that the man brought in to investigate alleged
collusion in the bidding process was 'poached' by Qatar, where he was later
installed at a multi-million pound security centre.

Australian investigator Chris Eaton left Fifa in April 2012 after travelling to
Qatar to look into allegations of corruption.

It was claimed today he was later given a job as chief investigator at the
newly-formed International Centre for Sport Security in the Arab state.

Mr Eaton's lawyers have insisted there was 'nothing improper whatsoever' about
his appointment to the body and there 'no prospect whatsoever' of his being
appointed to the role when he resigned.

But the claims will add to the growing calls for the process to be reopened,
potentially allowing countries like England to bid again.

The latest revelations come after accusations disgraced Fifa vice-president,
Mohamed Bin Hammam, bought support for the Qatar's bid by making payments to
football officials from Africa, Asia and the Caribbean.

He has also been accused of organising major gas deals to secure key votes.

But Qatar's 2022 bid committee have said Mr Bin Hammam played 'no official or
unofficial role' in efforts to secure the competition and denied all wrongdoing.

The Sunday Times today reported that a series of high-profile players, including
Argentinian legend Diego Maradona, former France star Eric Cantona and Brazil's
Romario have condemned Fifa over the allegations.

LOAD-DATE: June 15, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDM


                   Copyright 2014 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              118 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                   MailOnline

                        June 15, 2014 Sunday 3:16 PM GMT

'Intervene in Iraq and Syria or Britain will face terror attacks': Blair warns
UK should get involved as he defends decision to topple Saddam

BYLINE: TOM MCTAGUE, MAIL ONLINE DEPUTY POLITICAL EDITOR

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 1140 words



     ·    Former PM says Middle East terror will return to Europe if it's not
          faced fown
     ·    Calls for intervention in Iraq to stop ISIS terrorists taking Baghdad
     ·    Says biggest single threat for the UK is returning British jihadist
          fighters


Tony Blair this morning said Britain needed to take action in Iraq and Syria -
or face terror attacks in at home.

The former Prime Minister said the UK needed to intervene to stop a 'total
disaster'. He insisted that he was not calling for troops on the ground - but
suggested the 'selective use of air power' was one option on the table.

Mr Blair said: 'If we don't deal with the Syria issue then the problems are not
just going to be for Syria and for the region, the problems are actually going
to come back and they are going to hit us very directly even in our own
country.'

He added: 'If you talk to security services in France and Germany and the UK,
they will tell you their biggest single worry today returning jihadists fighters
- our own citizens by the way - from Syria.

'We have to look at Syria, and Iraq and the region in context. We have to
understand what's going on there and engage.'

He said that didn't mean 'ground troops' but it we shouldn't 'wash our hands of
it and walk away'.

Mr Blair's remarks this morning come as extremist fighters from the
al-Qaida-inspired 'Islamic State of Iraq and the Levant' bear down on Baghdad.

Speaking on the BBC's Andrew Marr show Mr Blair said an ISIS victory would be a
'total disaster and it mustn't be allowed to happen'.

He said: 'We are going to have to engage with it and if we don't then the
consequences will come back on us.'

Speaking to the Murnaghan show on Sky later, he added: 'The people who are
dealing with are going to pull us into this whether we like it or not.

'We are going to have to take an active role in Syria or Iraq in shaping
events.'

He said Britain should 'support' the United States if they take military action
in Iraq. 'It's in our interest to stop these jihadists.'

'They are prepared to fight us and they will if they are not stopped,' he added.

But Mr Blair's intervention was slammed by critics of his 2003 decision to take
Britain to war against Iraq.

Former Cabinet Minister Clare Short said: 'The truth is it's not only Iraq but
that's absolutely the touchstone that's thrown the region into chaos.'

Sir Christopher Meyer, Britain's ambassador to the US from 1997 to 2003, said
the decision to topple Saddam was 'perhaps the most significant reason' for the
sectarian violence now ripping through Iraq.

'There are many reasons for this disastrous state of affairs. Perhaps the most
significant is the decision taken more than 10 years ago by President George W
Bush and Prime Minister Tony Blair to unseat Saddam Hussein without thinking
through the consequences for Iraq of the dictator's removal.'

The decision to bar members of Saddam's Ba'ath party from top jobs and
disbanding the army - one former member of which now leads the Isis surge, were
among the most serious errors, he said.

'We are reaping what we sowed in 2003. This is not hindsight. We knew in the
run-up to war that the overthrow of Saddam Hussein would seriously destabilise
Iraq after 24 years of his iron rule.

'For all his evil, he kept a lid on sectarian violence. Bush and Blair were
repeatedly warned by their advisers and diplomats to make dispositions
accordingly.

'But, as we now know, very little was done until the last minute; and what was
done... simply made things far worse.'

Last night Mr Blair published an essay online, defending his decision to go to
war - and arguing that the current violence is the 'predictable' result of the
West's failure to intervene in Syria.

US president Barack Obama is considering a range of military options - said to
include air strikes - over the coming days.

Meanwhile Iran - a key ally of Nouri al-Maliki's Shia-dominated administration
in Baghdad - indicated that it was ready to provide assistance.

Iranian president Hassan Rouhani said his country had 'no option but to confront
terrorism' and was 'ready to provide assistance within international law' if
requested.

And Britain is to give £3 million of aid to Iraq. International Development
Secretary Justine Greening said the initial tranche of emergency cash would
allow agencies to supply water, sanitation, medicine, hygiene kits and basic
household items.

Mr Blair rejected as 'bizarre' arguments that Iraq would be more stable and
peaceful today if the US-backed war, which claimed the lives of 179 UK
personnel, had not happened.

He said that unless the international community was prepared to overcome public
reluctance and confront the extremists 'hard, with force', the consequences
would be more serious still.

Mr Blair - now a Middle East peace envoy - said Iraq was 'in mortal danger' but
pinned the blame on the sectarianism of the Maliki government and the spread of
Syria's brutal three-year civil war.

He hit back at critics of the controversial war in an eight-page essay on his
website, saying al-Qaida had been a 'beaten force' in Iraq as recently as three
years ago, but the chance of peace was squandered by Baghdad.

'By all means argue about the wisdom of earlier decisions,' he wrote.

'But it is the decisions now that will matter.

'The choices are all pretty ugly, it is true. But for three years we have
watched Syria descend into the abyss and as it is going down, it is slowly but
surely wrapping its cords around us, pulling us down with it.

'We have to put aside the differences of the past and act now to save the
future.

'Where the extremists are fighting, they have to be countered hard, with force.'

It did not mean another invasion, he said.

'There are masses of responses we can make short of that. But they need to know
that wherever they're engaged in terror, we will be hitting them.'

He said the Iraq assault had been planned and prepared in the Syria conflict
zone and was the 'predictable and malign effect' of allowing that situation to
be exploited by extremists.

Air strikes against the Assad regime had been on the table last summer over its
use of chemical weapons but a Commons vote against the idea helped end the
prospect of action.

'I understand all the reasons following Afghanistan and Iraq why public opinion
was so hostile to involvement,' Mr Blair wrote.

'Action in Syria did not and need not be as in those military engagements. But
every time we put off action, the action we will be forced to take will be
ultimately greater.'

He wrote: 'The moderate and sensible elements of the Syria opposition should be
given the support they need; Assad should know he cannot win an outright
victory; and the extremist groups, whether in Syria or Iraq, should be targeted,
in coordination and with the agreement of the Arab countries.

'However unpalatable this may seem, the alternative is worse.'

LOAD-DATE: June 15, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDM


                   Copyright 2014 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              119 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                  mirror.co.uk

                        June 15, 2014 Sunday 6:40 AM GMT

Qatar 2022 World Cup: Fifa 'warned there was "high risk" of terror attack at
tournament';
Football's world governing body was allegedly given the information SEVENTEEN
days ahead of the vote on who should hold the 2022 event

BYLINE: By Sam Adams

SECTION: SPORT,FOOTBALL

LENGTH: 308 words


Fifa was warned that there was a "high risk" of a terrorist attack if the World
Cup was held in Qatar, it has been claimed.

Football's world governing body was allegedly given the information SEVENTEEN
days before voting on who should hold the 2022 finals - which were eventually
awarded to Qatar.

Fifa's executive committee was briefed on a report written by Andre Pruis, who
is the body's security consultant for the World Cup in Brazil, the Sunday Times
reports.

The second highest-rated nation for a terror attack was reportedly Russia, which
was awarded the right to host the 2018 World Cup.

Other nations bidding for the tournament - which included England - were rated
as being of moderate to low, or low risk, by Pruis.

It comes after the Sunday Times published what it says is information from
leaked documents showing bribes were paid to secure the event for Qatar, which
Qatar denies.

The paper printed fresh accusations just four days before the World Cup kicked
off in Brazil, alleging that the then Asian football chief Mohamed Bin Hammam, a
Qatari, had brokered meetings between Qatari officials and governments to
discuss bilateral trade deals.

Qatar denies Bin Hammam was connected to its bid for the Cup. Bin Hammam has not
commented. FIFA has already banned Bin Hammam for life from soccer over
accusations he paid bribes to win votes for a bid to become FIFA president. That
ban was overturned but another was imposed for conflicts of interest.

Qatar has denied any wrongdoing. The country's bid has attracted controversy
from the outset because of the extreme summer heat during the months when the
Cup is played and the tiny country's lack of domestic soccer tradition.

If it goes ahead, the tournament is expected to be switched to a date later in
the year, creating scheduling headaches for broadcasters and European club
soccer clubs.

LOAD-DATE: September 5, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDMI


                      Copyright 2014 Trinity Mirror, Plc.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              120 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                           The Sunday Times (London)

                              June 15, 2014 Sunday
                                   Edition 2;
                                National Edition

Security expert's warning: tiny Qatar is wide open to attack;
Terrorism threat

BYLINE: Jonathan Calvert ; Hedi Blake

SECTION: SPORT; Pg. 22

LENGTH: 535 words


ANDRE PRUIS'S record of policing security for big sporting events started with
South Africa's historic Rugby World Cup in 1995 and was crowned by the football
World Cup there in 2010.

As deputy national commissioner for operational services in the South African
police, he spent several years preparing for 2010. So it was no surprise that
Fifa asked him to prepare a risk assessment of the vulnerability of 2022 World
Cup bidders to terrorism. The only problem was the timing.

It was mid-November 2010, less than a month before Fifa's executive committee
(Exco) was to vote on the 2022 bids, and Fifa told Pruis to report within days.

But Qatar's vulnerability - both strategically, sticking out into the Gulf, and
infrastructurally, as a tiny country in which all World Cup facilities would be
crowded together - was glaringly obvious to this highly experienced policeman.

As he reminded Exco members when he delivered his report on November 15: "The
terrorism threat against Qatar relates to its location - its proximity to
countries with inter alia an al-Qaeda presence."

While Pruis had only had time for a "very limited threat assessment", largely
based on American anti-terrorism information, he had closely examined each
bidder's ability to deal with attacks. His verdict on Qatar was shot through
with concerns.

He identified several large infrastructure projects as particularly vulnerable
to terrorist attacks - we are not naming them - but his principal anxiety was
that Qatar was not big enough to host the tournament safely. Teams and visiting
fans would be in danger.

"The centralisation of almost all key event facilities and venues in an area
with a radius of 60 kilometres poses various security threats," he warned. "The
fact that 10 of the 12 stadia are located in a 25-30km radius will not only
create an overlapping of certain security zones but will also cause major crowd
management and traffic problems before and after matches. Any incident in a
security zone around a stadium may immediately create a spillover to one or more
of the other stadia. Such a situation may create immense security challenges if
up to four rounds of 16 matches are played in close proximity to each other."

Accommodation for visitors would be centralised and "will cause an
overconcentration of fans in shopping malls, restaurants and local markets, or
souqs", overloading CCTV and other security systems with data.

There was another security concern: the huge number of migrant workers in Qatar.

Pruis wrote: "Since people from up to 100 nationalities are employed in various
sectors of the Qatar economy (hotels, transport, etc), an accreditaion system
linked to a thorough security vetting process will have to be implemented with
the support of a large number of countries. Given the judicial frameworks
applicable to each individual country, such a process could be difficult or even
impossible."

His verdict was damning: "In view of the risks related to the centralised
approach, Qatar is allocated a risk rating of high. I am of the view that it
would be very difficult to deal with a major incident in such an environment
without having to cancel the event."

Seventeen days later, Fifa gave the 2022 Cup to Qatar.

LOAD-DATE: June 15, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: The Al-Wakrah Stadium, one of several proposed for Qatar's World Cup
bid
Terror ratings of bidding countries Secret report for Fifa's executive committee
revealed the risk of terrorist attack on the World Cup

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: STS


                    Copyright 2014 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              121 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring South Asia - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                              June 16, 2014 Monday

Afghan forces foil most terrorist attacks on election day - TV

LENGTH: 538 words


Text of report by Afghan Tolo News TV on 15 June

[Presenter] Group terrorist attacks decreased by more than 38 per cent in the
runoff election compared to the first round of the polls. The National Defence
Ministry's spokesman said that terrorists mostly carried out roadside mine
blasts and could not wage group attacks on the election day. The senior deputy
interior minister also said that the Afghan security forces thwarted most
terrorist attacks and did not allow terrorists to attack their targets. Rateb
Nuri reports.

[Correspondent] The security forces did their utmost to guard the runoff
election, but the number of civilian casualties was higher in the second round
of the polls compared to the first round. The National Defence Ministry's
spokesman said that terrorists could not wage group attacks in the runoff
election and most casualties caused by roadside mine blasts. Speaking at a news
conference in Kabul, the spokesman said that although terrorists received
instructions from a foreign spy agency to disrupt the polls and they made enough
efforts, they could not disrupt the runoff election.

[Gen Zaher Azimi, spokesman for National Defence Ministry, captioned, speaking
at a news conference] The enemy carried out 432 ambushes and attacks on 5 April.
Right, you [journalists] certainly noted this. However, they launched 273
attacks on 14 June, meaning these attacks reduced to nearly half per cent. We
had good coverage and plans, particularly on deploying forces in key spots which
reduced the enemy's attacks.

[Correspondent] According to security bodies, terrorist attacks left 33
civilians dead and 63 wounded on the polling day. In recent incident, 11
civilians, including 10 observers of the election team of Dr Abdollah Abdollah,
were killed in a roadside mine blast in northern Samangan Province. Meanwhile,
the armed opponents of the government chopped off fingers of 11 people after
they cast their votes in Koshk Robat Sangin District of [western] Herat
Province.

[Unidentified young man with chopped off bandaged finger talking to camera] They
blindfolded, punched and kicked us and cut our fingers.

[Unidentified aged man with chopped off bandaged finger talking to camera] They
put the knife here [pointing at his chopped off finger] and cut it off.

[Correspondent] The senior deputy interior minister also confirmed that very
serious security threats were in place prior to the polling day, but terrorists
could not achieve their terrorist objectives.

[Gen Ayub Salangi, senior deputy interior minister, captioned, talking to
camera] Despite all plans, propaganda and warnings by the enemy, all praises due
to God, they could not disrupt or sabotage the process in any part of the
country and the security forces fulfilled their assignments based on the plans.

[Correspondent] According to the Interior and National Defence ministries, most
of the victims on the election day were civilians.

[Video shows Defence Ministry's spokesman speaking at a news conference, deputy
interior minister talking to correspondent, poor men with chopped bandaged
finger stained with blood talking to camera, archive footage of Afghan forces
searching cards on streets]

Source: Tolo News, Kabul, in Dari 1330gmt 15 Jun 14

LOAD-DATE: June 16, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2014 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              122 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring Middle East - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                              June 16, 2014 Monday

Iraqi army reportedly foils attempt by "terrorists" to "attack" northern city

LENGTH: 281 words


Al-Iraqiyah TV reported on 15 June that "the security forces, backed by Tall
Afar residents, managed to repel and foil an attack launched by the terrorist
groups of DA'ISH.

"Lt-Gen Qasim Ata, spokesman for the commander-in-chief of the armed forces,
said that the heavy losses were inflicted on the terrorists."

In a statement, Gen Ata said: "We would like to hail the great heroic stance of
our dear people in Tall Afar. They honorably supported the armed forces and
managed, in the past few hours, to kill scores of terrorists, who tried to
attack this impregnable area but to no avail. All people honorably confronted
and eradicated all those who tried to attack this dear city."

At the same time, the TV station called Maj-Gen Muhammad (not further
identified), a field commander in Tall Afar, over the telephone. He stressed
that the DA'ISH gangs' attack on the city of Tall Afar was confronted with the
participation of the army aircraft. He said: "Our forces joined hands with the
sons of Sunni and Shiite tribes. We achieved one victory after the other. The
zealous men achieved the greatest victories. The battle continued for 12 hours.
They attacked the steadfast Tall Afar District. The commander-in-chief of the
armed forces was regularly updated on the battle [words indistinct]. The forces
of evil and darkness were defeated after many of them were killed and their
equipment destroyed."

In another telephone interview with Abu-Walid, commander of the force in charge
of protecting the Tall Afar District, the commander echoed words of victory,
saying the "terrorists" had been defeated and had suffered heavy losses.

Source: Al-Iraqiyah TV, Baghdad, in Arabic 1700 gmt 16 Jun 14

LOAD-DATE: June 16, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2014 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              123 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                    BBC Monitoring Latin America - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                              June 16, 2014 Monday

Colombia sees "no recorded terrorist attacks' on 15 June presidential poll

LENGTH: 430 words


Text of report in English by Medellin-based Colombia Reports website on 16 June

[Report by Nina Damsgaard: "Colombia's election most quiet and safe in recent
history: govt"]

The election that saw Juan Manuel Santos reelected Colombia's president on
Sunday were the safest in recent history, said both the ministries of defence
and interior.

The Ministry of Defence reported no recorded terrorist attacks against voters.
According to the ministry 2014 will be remembered as 'the most safe year to
exercise democracy.'

"In the country only one single terrorist act was recorded with two vehicles
burned on Quibdo [street] -Medellin, an act that did not affect the right of
those who went to the polls," said defence minister Juan Carlos Pinzon.

In Barranquilla one person was arrested for voter fraud and one in Cordoba for
voter corruption. In Arauca, Cucuta and Santander four arrests were recorded for
false possession of identity cards, according to the Ministry of Defence.

The security forces also confiscated 52,304 units of election advertising to be
illegally distributed near the polling stations.

Colombia's Ministry of Interior announced in a statement that "the most
important point is that the government have served the country with the most
quiet and most safe election in the country's recent history."

The ministry also underlined the fact that the abstention vote in the second
round election was approximately 53 per cent compared to first rounds 60 per
cent, the drop in the abstention rate meant an increase of more than two million
voters across the country.

"As well as the national soccer team served the country, the citizens served
Colombia and went to the polls to defend democracy," Minister of Interior
Aurelio Iragorri Valencia stated.

According to Colombia's national police and defence ministry 437,000 members of
the security forces provided security during the second round of the
presidential election while 246,000 police and military guarded 99.9 per cent of
the country's 87,499 polling stations.

The Ministry of Defence and the national police announced on their Twitter
accounts that 38 people were arrested for other crimes unrelated to the election
and that 121 firearms were confiscated on the day of the election.

During the 12 hours prior to the polls opening, 122 people were arrested for
various crimes and 106 firearms were confiscated of which 72 were for illegally
carrying and 34 for violating the restrictions set in the election security
decree according to the national police.

Source: Colombia Reports website, Medellin, in English 16 Jun 14

LOAD-DATE: June 16, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2014 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              124 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                    BBC Monitoring Asia Pacific - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                              June 16, 2014 Monday

13 people executed in China over terror attacks in Xinjiang region

LENGTH: 89 words


Text of report in English by official Chinese news agency Xinhua (New China News
Agency)

Urumqi, 16 June: Thirteen people were executed on Monday over terrorist attacks
and violent crimes in northwest China's Xinjiang Uygur Autonomous Region.

They were involved in seven cases, according to local courts.

Also Monday, three other people were sentenced to death by the Urumqi
Intermediate People's Court over a terror attack near Beijing's Tian'anmen
Square in October 2013.

Source: Xinhua news agency, Beijing, in English 1334gmt 16 Jun 14

LOAD-DATE: June 16, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2014 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              125 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                            Belfast Telegraph Online

                        June 16, 2014 Monday 7:42 AM GMT

48 die in Kenya town terror attack

SECTION: WORLD

LENGTH: 406 words


At least 48 people were killed when dozens of Somali extremists wielding
automatic weapons attacked a small Kenyan coastal town for hours, assaulting the
police station, setting two hotels on fire, and spraying bullets into the
street, officials said today.

The assault began at around 8pm local time last night as residents were watching
World Cup matches on TV. The attack met little resistance from the country's
security apparatus, and lasted until early this morning.

Authorities blamed al-Shabab, Somalia's al Qaida-linked terror group.

Kenya's top police commander, David Kimaiyo, said the death toll was 48.

Another police commander said that, as residents were watching the World Cup at
the Breeze View Hotel, the gunmen pulled the men aside and ordered the women to
watch as they killed them. The attackers told the women that that is what Kenyan
troops are doing to Somali men inside Somalia.

A police spokeswoman said authorities believe that several dozen attackers took
part.

The assault occurred in the town of Mpeketoni, which is about 30 miles (20km)
south-west of the tourist centre of Lamu. Any tourism in Mpeketoni is mostly
local, with few foreigners visiting the region. The town is about 60 miles
(100km) from the Somali border. Mpeketoni is about 360 miles (600km) from the
capital, Nairobi.

Kenya has experienced a wave of gun and explosives attacks in recent months. The
US, UK, France, Australia and Canada have all recently upgraded their terror
threat warnings for the country. US Marines behind sandbag bunkers are now
stationed on the roof of the US Embassy in Nairobi.

The Interior Ministry said that at about 8pm yesterday two mini-vans entered the
town. Militants disembarked and began shooting. Kenya's National Disaster
Operations Centre said military surveillance planes were launched shortly
afterwards.

The nearby town of Lamu is a Unesco World Heritage Site and is the country's
oldest continually inhabited town.

The region saw a spate of kidnappings of foreign tourists in 2011 that Kenya
said was part of its motivation for attacking Somalia. Since those attacks and
subsequent terror warnings, tourism has dropped off sharply around Lamu.

Al-Shabab has vowed to carry out terror attacks to avenge the Kenyan military
presence in Somalia. At least 67 people were killed in September when four
al-Shabab gunmen attacked an upmarket shopping centre in Nairobi. Kenya sent its
troops to Somalia in October 2011.

LOAD-DATE: June 16, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBBELT


           Copyright 2014 Independent News & Media (Northern Ireland)
                              All Rights Reserved

                              126 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                          China Daily European Edition

                              June 16, 2014 Monday

Three in Tian'anmen terror attack sentenced to death

SECTION: SOCIETY

LENGTH: 35 words


URUMQI - Three were sentenced to death on Monday and five others were jailed
over a terror attack near Beijing's Tian'anmen Square in October 2013 by a court
in Northwest China's Xinjiang Uygur autonomous region.

LOAD-DATE: June 16, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2014 China Daily Information Co
                              All Rights Reserved

                              127 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                                  Daily Mirror

                              June 16, 2014 Monday
                                   Edition 1;
                                Northern Ireland

ANNUAL PEACE WALLS MISSILE TERROR BEGINS;
Interface residents say attacks increasing

BYLINE: MAURICE FITZMAURICE

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 30 words


FEARS have been raised in the wake of attacks including petrol bombs and other
missiles hurled over peace walls at a sectarian interface.

irish@mgn.co.uk

RESIDENT East Belfast, YESTERDAY

LOAD-DATE: June 16, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: LETHAL Nut
PROTECTION Netting to block missiles
BAG BUSINESS Residents collect objects thrown over
RUBBLE OF HATE Objects fired across interface in East Belfast

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DMR


                            Copyright 2014 MGN Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              128 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                 Express Online

                        June 16, 2014 Monday 4:00 PM GMT

A car-jacking and terrorist attack: The near death experiences of Benedict
Cumberbatch

BYLINE: Nigel Goodall

LENGTH: 1154 words


AS NIGEL GOODALL publishes his biography of Britain's brightest actor, he
reveals the two shocking incidents that could have been the death of the
Sherlock star

Benedict Cumberbatch when he's not playing detective [GETTY]

It seems quite remarkable to think that Benedict Cumberbatch is probably more
familiar with near-death experiences than most. Since his early years he has
almost died four times, surviving hypothermia, a bomb explosion, dehydration and
near-starvation.

When people think of Cumberbatch, however, the only near-death experience likely
to come to mind is the one that did not happen; when, as Sherlock Holmes,
Benedict fell from the top of St Bartholomew's Hospital in London for the finale
in series two of the incredibly successful TV drama.

Probably the most terrifying of his brushes with death was his kidnapping in
South Africa while filming the mini-series To The Ends Of The Earth for the BBC
in 2005, one of his first major screen roles. Even though he has recounted the
harrowing encounter before in varying detail, no matter how he tells the story,
the events still sound truly horrifying.

As he remembers it, he was making his way back to the film set with co-stars
Denise Black and Theo Landey on a Sunday night after an enjoyable weekend
scuba-diving at Sodwana Bay, not far from the area where the real "Captain
Phillips" five years later would lose control of his cargo ship to Somali
pirates.

Benedict and friends were on a highway near the Mozambique border when the tyre
on their car blew out and they pulled over to change it. That was when six armed
gunmen emerged from the bush, frisked them and demanded money, drugs and
weapons. Their hands were bound with their own shoelaces and they were driven
away off the road and out of sight of traffic.

Benedict was pushed into the car on to Denise's lap on the front passenger seat
with his face squashed against the windscreen. Due to his awkward position, his
back and head hit the windscreen every time the vehicle hit a bump in the
ground, leaving him in a great deal of discomfort. His captors stopped the car,
dragged him out and put him in the boot.

He remembers hitting his head as he was pushed into the tiny space and as he
started to suffer chronic cramps he was worried he might pass out. His only
thought at this point was were they going to kill him or take him hostage.

Benedict Cumberbatch as Sherlock Holmes, with sidekick Dr Watson, played by
Martin Freeman [BBC]

Suddenly the car stopped and he was taken out of the boot and forced to his
knees, alongside his friends, in the classic execution position. A duvet was
slung over his head to silence what he thought would be the gunshot to end his
life.

He remembers trying to reason with them, saying that killing him would not be a
good idea because they would then have a dead Briton on their hands to get rid
of.

After some time, which probably seemed hours to Benedict but was only minutes,
he realised the kidnappers had gone.

That was not his first brush with death. In 1994, when he was 18 and in the
final year at Harrow, he was at home in Kensington studying for his A-levels in
his bedroom when the whole flat shook from a huge explosion.

The windows shattered, a dust cloud enveloped him and his ears rang.

"I ran through the flat. My mum and dad were saying 'Are you all right?' I said
no, I couldn't hear out of one ear."

It was the 1994 terrorist attack on the Israeli Embassy, when a car packed with
30lb of explosives blew up and injured 30 people. All Benedict could remember
was a deafening silence, then the terrible sound of glass hitting the earth.

Despite Benedict's own near-death experiences, it seems the boot was on the
other foot when we look back at his family history. His great-great-uncle was
arrested and charged with stabbing a friend to death in August 1893.

The relative, Henry Ventham, was 14 when he and Frederick Betteridge, another
14-year-old, went blackberry picking down a country lane near their Hampshire
village.

The teenagers were said to have had a terrible row, resulting in a fatal knife
wound for Frederick, who was found with the blade still lodged in his chest.
Henry pleaded not guilty when placed in the dock at Hampshire Assizes in
Winchester. He was dramatically cleared on the evidence of a third boy, who said
Vantham accidentally ran on to the knife.

Not so dramatic was the time when Benedict was faced with a trauma of a
different kind, filming his screen test for Star Trek Into Darkness on Christmas
Eve 2011.

Director JJ Abrams was interested in casting Benedict as Khan, the villain of
his reboot sequel. The only problem was that he needed a tape as soon as
possible but because of the seasonal holiday there was no one available to shoot
an audition for him.

Benedict's Flip video camera was not working and he could not get hold of any
other recording device so in the end, out of desperation, because he had people
knocking at his door two days after Christmas, asking for the tape, he decided
his best option would be to shoot it on his iPhone with the help of two friends,
so he ended up squatting in their kitchen at about 11pm.

With their two children asleep, his friend's wife balanced herself on two chairs
to get the right angle on Benedict's face with desk lamps bouncing light off
bits of paper, trying desperately to make it look half-decent. They were
determined to get it right because the finished article was going to be sent
straight to JJ Abrams's iPad.

Once they had finished filming it, they then had to spend a day and a half
compressing it. After all their hard work, when Benedict finally managed to send
it, he was told: "JJ is on holiday." He was furious.

That was not the only occasion that auditions had almost gone horribly wrong for
him. He almost missed his scheduled meeting with Steven Spielberg for War Horse
when he could not find a place near Spielberg's hotel in Mayfair to park his
motorbike and he was already running unbelievably late.

On another occasion when he went to meet Swedish director Tomas Alfredson for a
role in the remake of Tinker Tailor Soldier Spy, he was asked what he thought of
the script but he had not seen it, let alone read it.

It was the first time that Benedict had attended an audition reading totally
unprepared through no fault of his own but what had turned out to be a genuine
mix up.

And then there was the day he spent a couple of hours sweating through a dinner
jacket while doing stunts in a shabby, overheated Soho office in 2004, just
before he headed out to South Africa, at a casting call for a video game version
of James Bond that he did not get.

If only they knew then that Benedict would, within a few years, be captivating
audiences around the world, and surviving real life dangers like 007 did on the
big screen, they might not have turned him down.

Benedict Cumberbatch by Nigel Goodall is published on Thursday June 19. Buy it
at expressbooks.co.uk.

LOAD-DATE: June 17, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDE


              Copyright 2014 Northern and Shell Media Publications
                              All Rights Reserved

                              129 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                            Global Capital Euroweek

                                 June 16, 2014

Kenya guides to low 6s and 7s as more terrorist attacks hit

BYLINE: Francesca Young

SECTION: KENYA,ZAMBIA,NIGERIA,AFRICA

LENGTH: 610  words



HIGHLIGHT: Kenya has released initial price thoughts of low 6% yield area for a
five year benchmark bond and low 7% for a 10 year. But terrorism this year in
the country, the most recent bout in hotels in coastal Mpeketoni on Sunday
night, is likely to impact tourism which accounted for around 12% of the
country's GDP in 2013, and investors are already cautious around the country's
large current account deficit.


<p><span >"The guidance looks about right," said one origination official away
from the note. "On Friday Zambia's 2024s were trading around 6.98%, and with the
weakness today they're now north of 7%. I'd expect the Kenya 10 year to end up
around 6.625%-6.75% and because 5s/10s curves for Nigeria and Ghana are quite
flat, the Kenya five year will probably only be slightly inside
that."</span></p> <p>A US investor agreed that 50bp-100bp back of Zambia seemed
fair. </p> <p>But a syndicate official away from the deal said he thought the
IPTs looked cheap.</p> <p>"I assume they're looking for a lot of money," he
said. "It looks about right if they want $2bn, but a bit generous if they're
only after $1bn.

My sense is that they must have stuck wide guidance out there to build a big
book and then hopefully tighten from there."</p><p>The only guidance on size
from lead managers <span >Barclays, JP Morgan, Standard Bank and QNB Invest, who
were mandated at the end of 2013, </span><span >so far is that the both tranches
will be benchmark sized.</span></p> <p>Though there are no perfect comparables
as the deal is a debut for Kenya. The syndicate banker off the deal saw Nigeria
as the closest one, though he said Kenya should trade wider. Nigeria's 2023s are
trading around 280bp over mid-swaps and he expected 350bp over swaps pricing for
a new Kenya 10 year, which equates to around a yield of 6.2%. </p> <p>"Even with
a big size, I can still see eventually pricing ending up inside 7%," he said.
</p> <p>Both bankers away from the deal said that the terrorist attacks in Lamu
on Sunday evening should have little effect on pricing if the appetite built on
Kenya's roadshow last week was strong.</p> <p><span >There have been a number
other terrorist attacks in the last year from Islamist terrorists. In March a
pair of explosions killed six people in the Eastleigh area of Nairobi and in
April  a car exploded at the Pangani police station in the city killing four,
with a second explosives laden vehicle found abandoned close by. Then in May,
there were attacks in the coastal city of Mombasa "" an important port and hub
for the coastal region which relies upon tourism for much of its
income.</span></p><p>Those attacks follow the Westgate shopping centre massacre
in September 2013 although there have been attacks dating back to 2011 when
Kenya sent its troops into neighbouring Somalia to try and assist in bringing
some form of order to the country.</p> <p>Even though investors seem to have
accepted these risks they rare also mindful of what one called "horrible
metrics", including a large current account deficit in the country. The IMF
expects Kenya's current account deficit to narrow to 7.7% of GDP by June 2015,
the end of the next fiscal year, from 8.3% this fiscal year.</p> <p>"Even under
the best possible scenario, they will remain insolvent and cannot pay principal
nor interest without borrowing further for a long time," said one US based
investor."They need more than coffee and tea to create jobs and tax revenues,
but with the shilling so strong it would be difficult."</p> <p>But the investor
did add that because of the diversity Kenya offers investors, demand is still
likely to be good.</p> <p>"Technically this bond will likely do well, but I'd be
cautious to hold given the current acocunt deficit and fiscal imbalances," he
said.</p> <p>Kenya is rated B+/B1/B+.</p>

LOAD-DATE: July 14, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: EUROW


              Copyright 2014 Euromoney Institutional Investor PLC
                              All Rights Reserved

                              130 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                   MailOnline

                       June 16, 2014 Monday 10:12 AM GMT

Police: 48 killed in terror attack on Kenya town

BYLINE: ASSOCIATED PRESS

SECTION: AP

LENGTH: 421 words


NAIROBI, Kenya (AP) - Dozens of extremists wielding automatic weapons attacked a
small Kenyan coastal town for hours, assaulting the police station, setting two
hotels on fire, and spraying bullets into the street. At least 48 people were
killed, officials said Monday.

The assault in Mpeketoni began around 8 p.m. local time on Sunday night as
residents were watching World Cup matches on TV and lasted until early Monday,
meeting little resistance from Kenya's security forces.

At the Breeze View Hotel, the gunmen pulled the men aside and ordered the women
to watch as they killed them, saying it was what Kenyan troops are doing to
Somali men inside Somalia, a police commander said on condition of anonymity
because he was not authorized to share that detail of the attack.

Authorities blamed al-Shabab, Somalia's al-Qaida-linked terror group, who have
vowed to carry out terror attacks to avenge the Kenyan military presence in
Somali. Along with its Somali fighters, the group also has many Kenyan
adherents.

Kenya's top police commander, David Kimaiyo, said the death toll was 48.

A police spokeswoman said authorities believe that several dozen attackers took
part.

Mpeketoni is about 30 miles (20 kilometers) southwest of the tourist center of
Lamu. Any tourism in Mpeketoni is mostly local, with few foreigners visiting the
region. The town is about 60 miles (100 kilometers) from the Somali border.
Mpeketoni is about 360 miles (600 kilometers) from the capital, Nairobi.

Kenya has experienced a wave of gunfire and explosive attacks in recent months.
The U.S., U.K., France, Australia, and Canada have all recently upgraded their
terror threat warnings for the country. U.S. Marines behind sandbag bunkers are
now stationed on the roof of the U.S. Embassy in Nairobi.

The Interior Ministry said that at about 8 p.m. Sunday two minivans entered the
town. Militants disembarked and began shooting. Kenya's National Disaster
Operations Center said military surveillance planes were launched shortly
afterward.

The nearby town of Lamu is a UNESCO World Heritage Site and is the country's
oldest continually inhabited town. The region saw a spate of kidnappings of
foreign tourists in 2011 that Kenya said was part of its motivation for
attacking Somalia. Since those attacks and subsequent terror warnings tourism
has dropped off sharply around Lamu.

At least 67 people were killed in September when four al-Shabab gunmen attacked
an upscale mall in the Kenyan capital, Nairobi. Kenya sent it troops to Somalia
in October 2011.

LOAD-DATE: June 16, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDM


                   Copyright 2014 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              131 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                            Manchester Evening News

                              June 16, 2014 Monday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

UNSEEN pics of the bomb REVEALED: UNSEEN pics of the bomb;
Eighteen years after the IRA terrorist attack that rocked Manchester,
never-before-seen pictures showing . .Eighteen years after the IRA terrorist
attack that rocked Manchester, never-before-seen pictures showing . ; the
emergency workers dealing aftermath and the damage caused to city centre are
published

BYLINE: Paul Britton

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 22,23

LENGTH: 245 words


AFASCINATING collection of neverbefore-seen images capturing the aftermath of
the IRA bomb in Manchester has been revealed on the 18th anniversary of the
blast.

The emotive photographs show the extent of the devastation across the city
centre.

The collection of 69 images were taken by either Greater Manchester Fire Service
officers or official fire service photographers on the day of the atrocity and
in the days following the blast.

The negatives have until recently been stored in a fire service archive.

They were kept in boxes in a cupboard at the headquarters of Greater Manchester
Fire and Rescue Service in Swinton, SalreveAled: ford, and have also been sent
to the fire service museum in Rochdale over the years.

The photographs show fire fighters as they come to terms with the destruction,
and carry out their duties.

Powerful shots show groups of emergency workers discussing plans, and lines of
fire engines in the roads around the Arndale centre and near Manchester
Cathedral. One shows a community fire service van providing refreshments to the
crews on duty.

Images of destroyed buildings, including a Lunn Poly travel shop, C&A and the
Arndale food court are included, as fire service crew working on that day
documented the destruction.

It also includes a shot of the iconic post box, left standing amid the
devastation all around.

All 69 images can be seen on our website - www.manchestereveningnews.co.uk.

REMEMBERING THE IRA BOMB www.manchestereveningnews.co.uk

LOAD-DATE: June 16, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: The Lunn Poly travel shop and Arndale food court pictured after the
bomb blast
Firefighters survey the damage of the IRA bomb blast (above and left).

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: MEN


                     Copyright 2014 Manchester Evening News
                              All Rights Reserved

                              132 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                        June 16, 2014 Monday 7:37 PM GMT

Iraq crisis: The rise of Isis, the 'world's richest terror group' in 60 seconds;

The attacks by Isis on cities in northern Iraq have helped it achieve the
ominous title of the "world's best-resourced terror organisation". But where did
the group's money and assets come from?

BYLINE: Video by Olivia Bolton

LENGTH: 206 words


Follow the latest developments on our live blog

The Islamic State of Iraq and al-Sham (Isis) has been newly labelled the
"world's best-resourced terror organisation", according to the International
Business Times .

But where did its money and assets come from?

ISIS formed in April 2013 out of al-Qaeda in Iraq and an affiliate in Syria.

The organisation has gained most of its financing from smuggling, extortion and
other crime.

In Syria, the group has gained cashflows from oilfields and smuggling £21m of
antiquities from the country.

They've also reportedly extorted taxes from businesses in Mosul, Iraq, netting
millions a month.

The money has enabled the group to mount a huge offensive that resulted in the
takeover of Mosul, Tikrit and attempted seizure of Kirkuk.

Before the recent attack on Mosul, the group's wealth and assets were worth
£515m .

Since the attack, they have made huge financial gains. They've robbed £256m from
banks in the city and looted gold bullion and military supplies.

The group's wealth has been boosted to £1.4bn, making it richer than the Taliban
.

Contains video from Reuters, APTN

LOAD-DATE: June 17, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTNS


                  Copyright 2014 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              133 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                        June 16, 2014 Monday 6:35 PM GMT

Al-Shabaab warning: tourists visit Kenya 'at their own peril';
Threat by jihadists follows terrorist attack that left 49 dead and buildings
burning in Mpeketoni, near Lamu

BYLINE: By Mike Pflanz Lamu

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 843 words


Somalia's al-Qaeda affiliate al-Shabaab has warned tourists visiting Kenya that
they did so "at their own peril" and should "stay away or suffer the bitter
consequences of their folly" because the country was "a war zone".

It was the Islamists' strongest threat yet to foreigners in Kenya, and came on
Monday as they claimed responsibility for the deadliest terror strike on its
neighbour's soil since the Westgate Shopping Centre attack last September.

At least 49 people died when vanloads of masked gunmen chanting "Allahu akbar"
swept through a busy town close to Lamu island in an hours-long rampage on
Sunday night.

Banks, hotels and government offices were set alight and still smouldered as
Kenyan forces took control of the town of Mpeketoni, 20 miles inland from the
Lamu archipelago that is popular with tourists.

The al-Shabaab statement, sent by text message to journalists, could not
immediately be verified, diplomatic and security sources in Nairobi cautioned.

But as the evening call to prayer drifted out over the waters and the sun dipped
behind the coral-stone buildings of the islands' main town, men gathered at the
central jetty to discuss something of which there could be no doubt: the terror
group's latest murderous attack.

Some sported dreadlocks and Bob Marley shirts. Some were in ankle-length Islamic
robes. Others wore faded Premiership team strips. They were fishermen, sailing
boat deck hands, craft carvers or waiters. Most relied on tourism. All were
deeply worried.

They stressed that Lamu was not Mpeketoni, which lies a 30-minute ferry ride
across the channel then an hour's car journey down a bumpy dirt track, and is
very rarely visited by international tourists.

"But that will not matter, again Lamu is the name linked in the minds of people
around the word with terrorism," said Hassan Bwanamkuu, 29, a father of
daughters aged six and three, who earns money taking tourists on dhow trips.

"I have had one job in three weeks. Already my children are suffering, and now
there is this attack to scare away tourists more. If tourism is finished here,
we are finished." Already, jobs are scarce in Lamu. That is pushing more and
more frustrated young men here towards the embrace of radical Islam, driven by
DVDs of hate-sermons and web pages surfed on cheap Chinese smartphones.

The concern is that if the economy nose-dives following the attack on nearby
Mpeketoni, increasing poverty could drive even more disaffected young men into
the arms of the jihadis.

"There are so many boys here who are angry, who want to run to Somalia to join
al-Shabaab and then come back and attack in Kenya," another young man standing
on the jetty said yesterday. Friends surrounding him murmured agreement,
although the man added hurriedly, "It's not tourists we want".

Their grievances, the men said, were with the national government in far away
Nairobi, which they accuse of ignoring the coast's traditional inhabitants and
handing lucrative contracts and government postings to "up-country" Kenyans.

Such distinctions are likely all lost on ordinary Western tourists contemplating
holidays in Kenya. Already, Britain and other countries warn against visiting
Kenya's main coastal city of Mombasa, and beaches to its north.

"It seems a bloody disaster whichever way you look at it, but really we can't
tell what the outcome will be until the dust settles," said Carol Korschen, the
owner of Peponi's, one of Lamu island's smartest hotels.

"We were doing OK. We had good bookings. We have security in place after the
earlier incidents, and we feel completely safe here. The problem is one of
perception."

Another hotelier on the island however said: "To be honest, why would anyone
come to Kenya at the moment, you'd choose somewhere, anywhere else, logically".
The hotelier did not want to be named.

Kenya's tourism industry has bounced back from shocks before, including the 1998
US embassy bombing in Nairobi, a terror strike on an Israeli-owned hotel north
of Mombasa in 2002, and violence that followed the 2007 polls.

In 2011, Somali gunmen kidnapped Judith Tebbutt, from Bishop's Stortford, from
her luxury beachfront lodge 30 miles north of Lamu, and killed her husband.
Three weeks later, a retired French journalist, Marie Dedieu, was taken hostage
far closer to Lamu's main beach areas. She died soon after.

"Through all of these warnings and terrorist things everywhere else in Kenya,
Lamu has been safe apart from some one or two incidents," said Hussein Soud
Elmaawy, head of the Council of Muslim Elders in Lamu.

"They were terrible things, but people came back. Lamu is still safe."

Mahmud Abdulkadir, an imam at a mosque in Lamu town, was not so sure. "There
used to be few people sympathetic to these [radical Islamic] groups," he said,
sitting on a bench in the shade of a centuries-old tree in the town's main
square.

"Now, you walk around and you see graffiti on the walls that says, 'the solution
is al-Shabaab, the solution is Boko Haram'. We must be very, very careful or
things can change very quickly here."

LOAD-DATE: June 17, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTNS


                  Copyright 2014 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              134 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                        June 16, 2014 Monday 9:50 AM GMT

Kenya terrorist attack 'most sophisticated seen of its kind';
Gunmen carrying black Islamist flags attacked string of hotels in Lamu in a
four-hour-long rampage on Sunday night, Mike Pflanz reports from Nairobi

LENGTH: 156 words


Gunmen flying the flag of Somalia's al-Qaeda affiliate roared into a Kenyan
coastal town and opened fire indiscriminately on pedestrians, shop-owners and
people watching the World Cup, leaving at least 48 people dead.

Two banks, government buildings and a dozen vehicles were set alight as the
Islamist attackers worked their way through the town of Mpeketoni, close to Lamu
island, until Kenyan forces repelled them hours later.

It was the boldest raid inside Kenya blamed on al-Shabaab since the terror
strike against the Westgate Shopping Centre in the capital, Nairobi, last
September, when more than 70 people died.

Britain has advised tourists to avoid areas of Kenya's coast south of where the
attack took place, including Mombasa island. Mpeketoni does not fall inside that
alert zone, but is rarely visited by Western tourists.

Mike Pflanz reports from Nairobi.

Contains footage from Reuters

LOAD-DATE: June 16, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTNS


                  Copyright 2014 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              135 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                       BBC Monitoring Africa - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                             June 17, 2014 Tuesday

Terror attacks in Kenya justify call for national dialogue - Mombasa governor

LENGTH: 387 words


Text of report by Charles Mghenyi entitled "Terror attacks justify call for
talks - Joho" published by privately-owned Kenyan daily newspaper The Star on 17
June

The government should heed to the opposition's call for national dialogue to the
end insecurity in the country, Mombasa Governor Hassan Joho has said.

He said the Sunday's [15 June] Mpeketoni gun attack which left at least 50
people dead has proven how ineffective security organs are, and a national
dialogue will solve some of the mess.

Joho said: "If there is a good reason why the president should call for a
national dialogue, it is because of this wave of attacks in the country."

He was speaking at Tamarind Hotel in Mombasa during the launch of the Mombasa
International Cultural Festival website.

"This is not about politics anymore. The president should invite us for a
national dialogue to see how we can work together to end some of these
problems," Joho said.

He said it is unfortunate that when the country is thinking of how best it can
solve insecurity another attack happens. Joho said it is time to see how best
the government can work with the opposition as security is paramount. He said if
Kenya has effective intelligence and police force, the country will not be
crying of organized terror attacks such as the Mpeketoni and the Westgate.

Meanwhile, lobby organizations at the Coast have condemned the Mpeketoni attack
terming it as inhuman. Haki Africa and Muslim for Human Rights said the killings
are uncalled for and government should work on ways of ending crime.

Haki Africa executive director Hussein Khalid called on the government to
declare insecurity a national disaster. He said by doing so, it means security
will be prioritized by all state and non-state actors and every person will be
engaged in provision of security.

"It is disastrous to note that a small town like Mpeketoni which houses a police
station, administration police office and others would still be victim to such
heinous massacre," he said.

Muhuri executive director Mwambu Mwasaru said the government should provide
leadership in the search for cause of the worsening security situation and
lasting solution for this problem "Security is primarily the responsibility of
the government. They owe it to the people," he said.

Source: The Star, Nairobi, in English 17 Jun 14

LOAD-DATE: June 17, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2014 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              136 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                       BBC Monitoring Europe - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                             June 17, 2014 Tuesday

Serbian prosecutor says arms found in south village meant for terrorist attacks

LENGTH: 282 words


Text of report by Serbian newspaper Blic website on 13 June

[Report by "R.I.-B.V.": "Arsenal of Weaponry Found Belonging to Liberation Army
of Presevo, Medvedja, Bujanovac"]

A large quantity of weapons, munitions, and other explosive devices has been
found in the village of Turija, 3 kilometers west of Bujanovac in the Ground
Safety Zone.

According to initial information, which has been confirmed for Blic at the
police department in Vranje, this is a whole arsenal of weaponry found in a
condemned building next to a mosque in the village.

It is believed that the weaponry belonged to members of the Liberation Army of
Presevo, Medvedja, and Bujanovac from 2001.

The case is being investigated by the higher prosecution department in Vranje in
cooperation with the police station in Bujanovac.

Zagorka Dolovac: Weaponry Meant To Be Used in Terrorist Operation

The State Public Prosecutor Zagorka Dolovac told Blic that it is suspected that
the weaponry and explosive devices in question were to be used in a terrorist
operation.

"Today, the Higher Public Prosecution Department in Vranje examined the scene in
the compound of the mosque in the village of Turija near Veliki Trnovac where a
sizeable quantity of weaponry, munitions, and explosive materials was found
buried. There are indications that support the belief that the weaponry was to
be used for terrorist operations," Dolovac said.

She expects the competent government bodies to identify in a very short time the
persons believed to be connected with the procurement and storing of this
weaponry and ammunition and to institute criminal proceedings against them in
line with the law.

Source: Blic website, Belgrade, in Serbian 13 Jun 14

LOAD-DATE: June 17, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2014 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              137 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                       BBC Monitoring Africa - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                             June 17, 2014 Tuesday

USA condemns terrorist attack on Kenya's coastal town

LENGTH: 465 words


Text of report by Cyrus Ombati entitled "US condemns Mpeketoni attack as
residents arm themselves, Lenku warns of similar attacks" published by Kenyan
privately-owned daily newspaper The Standard website on 17 June

Nairobi, Kenya: The US government has condemned the attacks in Mpeketoni, Lamu
that has now claimed more than 60 lives.

The US State Department termed it a terrorist attack by Al-Shabab saying there
can be no place for horrific acts of violence such as this in any society.

"The United States strongly condemns the Al-Shabab terrorist attack on the
coastal town of Mpeketoni, Kenya overnight that killed dozens of people. We
offer our deepest condolences to those that have lost loved ones and to persons
injured in the attacks," said Jen Psaki Department Spokesperson, Office of the
Spokesperson.

The statement added the US stands with Kenya and will continue to work in
partnership with Kenya to address security in Kenya and in the region in a
comprehensive manner that respects human rights.

Gunmen struck Mpeketoni, Kibaoni and Poromoko villages on Sunday [15 June] and
Monday night respectively and shot dead locals, mostly men.

The gang also burnt more than 20 vehicles and destroyed property in the attack.
Several houses, a bank, hotels, shops and vehicles were burnt during the
shooting that lasted the entire night.

Interior Cabinet Secretary Joseph Ole Lenku said the attackers who he termed as
bandits escaped to Boni Forest after the Sunday attack.

But the attackers struck again on Monday killing nine more people including two
police officers in Poromoko area.

Lenku said the Poromoko attackers destroyed Safaricom communication equipment
before they undertook the fresh killings. He added attackers ensured the network
was jammed so that locals could not raise alarm.

He said by paralysing communication, the attackers seemed to know what they were
doing adding it was an elaborate war.

Angry locals have armed themselves saying they will defend themselves.

Lenku insisted the killings were politically motivated, and they had reliable
intelligence that similar attacks might occur in other parts of the country.

Al-Shabab militant group have already claimed responsibility for the Sunday and
Monday night attacks. Al-Shabab has claimed through their radio station-Andalus
they carried out the attack Monday night and that they killed 20 people.

This could raise the death toll to more than 80 because police and residents
said they were still searching the area. Other residents said houses were being
burnt in Mapenya area.

No arrest has been made.

More state officials are expected in the area on Tuesday to chart the way
forward even as Kenyans continued to express their displeasure at the response
to the attacks.

Source: The Standard website, Nairobi, in English 17 Jun 14

LOAD-DATE: June 17, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2014 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              138 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                            Global Capital Euroweek

                                 June 17, 2014

Kenya shrugs off terrorist attacks to make $2bn debut

BYLINE: Steven Gilmore

SECTION: KENYA,ZAMBIA,NIGERIA,AFRICA CEEMEA

LENGTH: 576  words



HIGHLIGHT: The Republic of Kenya ploughed ahead with a dual tranche debut
Eurobond on Monday despite terrorist attacks in coastal Mpeketoni on Sunday and
Monday nights. The headlines had only a marginal effect on market sentiment and
Kenya drew well over $8bn of orders for its $2bn bond transaction.


<p>"After the events on Sunday we considered whether or not to push ahead with
the deal," said a syndicate banker on Kenya's inaugural transaction. "But
unfortunately the threat of terrorism in Kenya isn't something that goes away
and it's something the international community is aware of. Ultimately the
market backdrop was a bit softer, but the underlying strength was still there
and so we went ahead."</p> <p>Leads Barclays, JP Morgan, Standard Bank and Qatar
National Bank Invest set initial price guidance on the sovereign's five and 10
year bonds in the low 6% and 7% yield area. They priced the $500m five year and
$1.5bn 10 year tranches at 5.875% and 6.875% respectively, having decided
against pushing the pricing further. </p><p>On the basis of the 10 year's
initial price thoughts, a banker away from the deal said he expected a
6.625%-6.75% finish, and both tranches were a full cash point higher in the
secondary market on Tuesday morning.

But syndicate officials on the bond said there was a strong consensus from
investors on a 7% start for initial price thoughts, and despite the larger order
book a 6.75% finish would have been too aggressive a price move. </p> <p>"We had
real money institutional accounts explicitly saying that were willing to be in
for a certain amount at 7%, a bit less at 6.875% and at 6.75% they were out,"
said the debt banker. "When you get that type of feedback the response isn't to
test them. We had very clear push back."</p> <p>A 6.75% finish would have also
meant a 50bp revision during guidance, which would have attracted accusations of
the leads taking a bait and switch approach to execution, he added. Nor could
the leads have started execution any tighter. The vast majority of accounts used
Zambia as the most relevant price comparable. Some argued that as Kenya was
planning on large debut print it should price wide of Zambia, and others felt
that Kenya's superior credit story meant it should price inside. Either way
Zambia's trading levels anchored initial price thoughts.</p> <p>A banker away
from the deal had Zambia's 2024 bonds trading at 6.98% when Kenya opened books,
although the banker on the Kenya debut saw them trading in the low 7% area. He
felt that the low 7% area for Kenya's initial price thoughts was at or even
inside Zambia's secondary levels, and added that a new Zambia 10 year would have
been priced around 7.25%.</p> <p>"The overwhelming feedback was for a low 7%
start for the 10 year," he said. </p> <p>Roadshow feedback had also pointed
towards a 10 year deal, as accounts were eager for duration, the banker said.
But Kenya had always wanted $1.5bn-$2bn for its inaugural, and accounts were
adamant that no one bond should be too large, he added.</p> <p>"That left the
issuer with options as to how to split the deal," he said. "The larger size for
the 10 year tranche was just a function of more demand for that
tenor."</p><p>Another bank on the deal pointed out that late last year Nigeria
had to split a deal into five and 10 year bonds to get $1bn from the market.
</p><p>"Just look at there the market is now," he said. "This is the joint
largest deal ever from sub-Saharan Africa and the largest sovereign deal ever
aside from South Africa. It just shows the real depth of demand for Africa
risk." </p>

LOAD-DATE: July 14, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: EUROW


              Copyright 2014 Euromoney Institutional Investor PLC
                              All Rights Reserved

                              139 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                  M2 PressWIRE

                             June 17, 2014 Tuesday

U.S. Condemns Al-Shabaab Terrorist Attack in Mpeketoni

LENGTH: 98 words


June 16, 2014

Jen Psaki

Department Spokesperson , Washington, DC

The United States strongly condemns the Al-Shabaab terrorist attack on the
coastal town of Mpeketoni, Kenya overnight that killed dozens of people. We
offer our deepest condolences to those that have lost loved ones and to persons
injured in the attacks. There can be no place for horrific acts of violence such
as this in any society. The United States stands with Kenya. We will continue to
work in partnership with Kenya to address security in Kenya and in the region in
a comprehensive manner that respects human rights.

LOAD-DATE: June 17, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newswire

JOURNAL-CODE: M2PW


                      Copyright 2014 Normans Media Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              140 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                   MailOnline

                       June 17, 2014 Tuesday 11:47 PM GMT

Fears of Patna blasts hero who caught a terror suspect as he is attacked by
unknown men

BYLINE: GIRIDHAR JHA

SECTION: INDIANEWS

LENGTH: 413 words


A brave coolie who caught a terror suspect at the Patna Junction on the day of
serial blasts at Narendra Modi's rally in Patna last year, was assaulted by
unidentified men at the railway station on Monday night.

Dharmanath Yadav has no clue about the men who roughed him up, but he fears that
they could be linked to the terror network.

"I could not identify them. But I have been receiving threats ever since I
caught a terror accused last year," the 44-year-old porter said after he was
rushed to the Patna Medical College Hospital.

Yadav had caught suspected Indian Mujahideen (IM) operative Imtiyaz Ansari
following a blast inside a toilet at the railway station, and handed him over to
the railway police shortly before Modi's rally was to start at the Gandhi
Maidan.

But instead of any reward, he is experiencing nightmares for his heroic deeds.

Yadav, who is known as 'Dharma Coolie' among fellow porters, said he had been
continually receiving threats on his phone over the past few months.

"I am often warned of dire consequences for getting a terror suspect," he said.

The porter claimed he had received no reward whatsoever from the police so far.

"The police told me that I will get a reward. Maybe I will get something if I
meet the prime minister now," he said.

Meanwhile, Yadav has been left to fend for himself. He said he had to lie down
on the floor of the hospital ward as all the beds were occupied.

Yadav, a native of Bhojpur district who has been working as a coolie for more
than two decades, had earlier approached senior police officers to seek
security.

In April, Yadav had submitted an application to the Senior Superintendent of
Police in Patna, saying his life was under threat following the arrest of terror
suspects in recent months.

He had asked for security since he happened to be a witness in the Patna blasts
case.

On the fateful day of Modi's rally, Yadav was in the rest room when he heard a
loud explosion at a public toilet of the railway station. At the spot, Yadav saw
a young man looking nervous beside his injured accomplice there.

Getting suspicious, Yadav caught the youth and handed him over to the two
railway police constables there.

The youth turned out to be IM operative Imtiyaz Ansari, a key link to the terror
network that had masterminded the blasts at Modi's rally in which five persons
lost their lives.

Later, Imtiyaz's injured accomplice, Ainul Ansari alias Tarique, died in a
hospital a few days after the Patna blasts.

LOAD-DATE: June 17, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDM


                   Copyright 2014 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              141 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                            Manchester Evening News

                             June 17, 2014 Tuesday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

THE COUPLE WHO BATTLED IRA BOMB TO GET MARRIED...;
Dave and Lynne look back on the how their big day was caught up in the terror
attack on city 18 years ago. .

BYLINE: Paul Britton

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 325 words


ACOUPLE caught up in the 1996 Manchester bomb blast on their wedding day have
told how they got a police escort to attend their reception at a city centre
hotel.

Dave and Lynne Speers, who celebrated their 18th wedding anniversary at the
weekend, recalled the uncertainty surrounding their big day after the M.E.N.
revealed a collection of never-before-seen images of the aftermath of the blast
taken by fire service officials on the ground.

The haunting images, unveiled on Sunday, 18 years on from the blast, capture the
vast extent of the devastation after the 3,000lb IRA bomb exploded in the back
of a van on Market Street.

Lynne, 53, was getting her hair cut for the wedding when she heard the news.
Dave had just returned home after collecting relatives from Chorlton Street
coach station.

The ceremony at Longsight's St Agnes Church went ahead - but the reception at
the Midland Hotel was thrown into doubt.

Father-of-two Dave, from Gorton, said: "We got into the wedding car and tried to
get into town but were turned back by the police. We just didn't know what to
do. My mum rang the hotel and they said they were open as normal if we could get
there. By that time the wedding car had gone so we tried again in a mate's car
and went a different route. Luckily we were allowed through the cordon by the
police who gave us an escort. It was a funny way to attend your reception
looking back.

The photographer got there by bike. Despite it all it was a great night. Looking
at the new images really took us back. We were really scared overnight in case
there was another bomb and it was shocking to see Manchester the next day."

Lynne said: "I kept saying to Dave that we would never forget our wedding day.
18 years and two children later, It all worked out in the end."

The collection of 69 images were taken by either Greater Manchester Fire Service
officers or official fire service photographers on the day of the atrocity and
in the days following.

LOAD-DATE: June 17, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Lynne and Dave Speers, who got married on the day of. .the Manchester
bomb, at home in Gorton SEAN WILTON

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: MEN


                     Copyright 2014 Manchester Evening News
                              All Rights Reserved

                              142 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                       June 17, 2014 Tuesday 5:43 PM GMT

Kenya attacks heighten fears that world's favourite safari destination no longer
safe;
Kenyan hoteliers warn 'one more big attack and we're off the tourism map for
half a decade or more' following back-to-back al-Shabaab terror attacks near
tourist beaches

BYLINE: By Mike Pflanz Lamu

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 577 words


Back-to-back terror attacks close to Kenya's coast have deepened worries that
the world's favourite safari destination may no longer be safe.

At least 59 people died in raids on towns in northern Kenya near Lamu on Sunday
and Monday nights. Although tourists were not the targets, al-Shabaab, the
regional affiliate of al-Qaeda warned that "Kenya is officially a war zone".

Following strict new advice from Britain, the US, France and Australia to avoid
parts of the coast, hotels have reported significant cancellations. Safari
guides have also now expressed fears that the terror attacks could cause a
ripple inland and keep tourists away.

"I'd already had half of my clients for this year cancel," said Isaac Rotich,
one of Kenya's leading private safari guides, who works mostly in the Masai
Mara, Amboseli, Samburu and Nakuru wildlife reserves.

"All of us are worried. It's very difficult to reassure people. We are
vulnerable and we need to see much better security measures in place not just at
malls in Nairobi, but all over the country, including in the national parks."

Holidaymakers drawn by the country's varied game reserves and its white sand
Indian Ocean beaches drive more than 10 per cent of the economy, and support
more than half a million jobs.

However, senior tourism industry figures have reassured tourists that national
parks and wilderness areas are far off the Islamists' radar.

No successful terror attack has specifically targeted tourists since 2002, when
al-Qaeda sent a suicide bomber into a hotel north of Mombasa popular with
Israelis, and simultaneously tried and failed to down a holiday jet bound for
Tel Aviv.

But the Westgate Shopping Centre siege in the capital, Nairobi, last September
appeared designed to include foreigners among its victims.

An improvised bomb left in a hotel near Mombasa in May failed to explode as
planned but suggested terrorists once again planned to strike hotels.

"We only need one more of those to succeed, and we're off the map for half a
decade or more," one hotelier in Lamu said privately.

Axel Lohwasser owns Kilima Camp in the Masai Mara, part of a small group of
Kenyan boutique lodges in national parks, Nairobi and at Msambweni on the coast.

"Of course people are worried, they are calling us up and asking us, 'Is it
really safe'," he said. "The answer is nowhere can be completely safe, but
really everything is being done to ensure there is no risk in the safari areas.

"Kenya has had problems before, it is always up and down, the visitors come
back. This time, unless there is some other Westgate, or a bomb in a tourist
hotel, it will be just the same."

The Kenya Tourism Board (KTB) pointed out that the two attacks this week took
place in areas with "no international tourist facilities" and said that nearby
Lamu was "in no way affected".

"Tourism activity continues as normal throughout the country with holidaymakers
visiting the country's safari circuits and popular coastal resorts of Diani,
Malindi, Watamu, Kilifi and Lamu," the KTB said in a statement.

Kenya's government is aggressively selling the country as a holiday destination
to new markets in Asia, which will help cushion losses from Britain, Europe and
the US.

The number of Britons visiting Kenya fell from a peak of 203,290 in 2011 to
149,699 last year, the KTB said.

Between 2009 and 2012, the number of visitors from China more than doubled from
20,339 to 41,303, although the figure dipped slightly in 2013.

LOAD-DATE: June 18, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTNS


                  Copyright 2014 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              143 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                       June 17, 2014 Tuesday 5:14 PM GMT

Kenya attacks 'not terrorism' claims president as tourism fears grow;
Uhuru Kenyatta ignores al-Shabaab claims it carried out twin strikes that left
60 dead and instead blames "local political networks"

BYLINE: By Mike Pflanz

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 705 words


Back-to-back attacks close to Kenya 's coast that killed 60 people over two days
were the work of local political activists and not international terrorists,
Kenya's president has said.

In a live televised statement, Uhuru Kenyatta ignored claims from Somalia's
al-Qaeda army that it was behind the raids and instead attempted to shore up his
political standing by blaming opposing politicians.

He said "local political networks" had arranged the "ethnic violence" to force
people from Mr Kenyatta's Kikuyu tribe from the town that was targeted,
Mpeketoni near Lamu. He named no one and gave no details of investigations
against anyone.

There was immediate disbelief and outrage at the president's statement in Lamu,
the string of islands popular with international tourists that lie to the east
of Mpeketoni.

"He is crazy, he is trying to turn all Kenya against him and his Kikuyus. This
is like 2007," said Hassan Ahmed Ali, a retired bank worker watching Mr
Kenyatta's speech in Lamu. He referred to the intertribal violence that swept
Kenya following the 2007 elections.

Fears of a return to similar ethnic tensions and worries over terrorism have
triggered growing concerns over the safety of the world's favourite safari
destination.

Although tourists were not the targets of the attacks in Mpeketoni on Sunday and
Monday nights, al-Shabaab, the regional affiliate of al-Qaeda, warned that
"Kenya is officially a war zone".

Hotels on the country's beaches were already struggling following new travel
advice from Britain and others. Safari guides also now worry that the recent
terror attacks could cause a ripple inland and keep tourists away.

"I'd already had half of my clients for this year cancel," said Isaac Rotich,
one of Kenya's leading private safari guides.

"All of us are worried. It's very difficult to reassure people. We are
vulnerable and we need to see much better security measures in place not just at
malls in Nairobi, but all over the country, including in the national parks."

Tourism drives more than 10 per cent of the economy, and supports more than half
a million jobs.

However, senior tourism industry figures have tried to reassure tourists that
national parks and wilderness areas are far off the Islamists' radar.

No successful terror attack has specifically targeted tourists since 2002, when
al-Qaeda sent a suicide bomber into a hotel north of Mombasa popular with
Israelis, and simultaneously tried and failed to down a holiday jet bound for
Tel Aviv.

But the Westgate Shopping Centre siege in the capital, Nairobi, last September
appeared designed to include foreigners among its victims.

An improvised bomb left in a hotel near Mombasa in May failed to explode as
planned but suggested terrorists once again planned to strike hotels.

"We only need one more of those to succeed, and we're off the map for half a
decade or more," one hotelier in Lamu said privately.

Axel Lohwasser owns Kilima Camp in the Masai Mara, part of a small group of
Kenyan boutique lodges in national parks, Nairobi and at Msambweni on the coast.

"People are calling and asking, 'Is it really safe'," he said. "Nowhere can be
completely safe, but really everything is being done to ensure there is no risk
in the safari areas.

"Kenya has had problems before, the visitors come back. This time, unless there
is some other Westgate, or a bomb in a tourist hotel, it will be just the same."

The Kenya Tourism Board (KTB) pointed out that the two attacks this week took
place in areas with "no international tourist facilities" and said that nearby
Lamu was "in no way affected".

"Tourism activity continues as normal throughout the country with holidaymakers
visiting the country's safari circuits and popular coastal resorts of Diani,
Malindi, Watamu, Kilifi and Lamu," the KTB said in a statement.

Kenya's government is aggressively selling the country as a holiday destination
to new markets in Asia, which will help cushion losses from Britain, Europe and
the US.

The number of Britons visiting Kenya fell from a peak of 203,290 in 2011 to
149,699 last year, the KTB said.

Between 2009 and 2012, the number of visitors from China more than doubled from
20,339 to 41,303, although the figure dipped slightly in 2013.

LOAD-DATE: June 18, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTNS


                  Copyright 2014 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              144 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                       June 17, 2014 Tuesday 4:02 AM GMT

China executes 13 for 'ruthless' terror attacks;
Amid a growing security crackdown, more than a dozen executed in China's far
west for involvement in 'terrorist groups' behind a wave of crimes including
murder, arson, theft and bomb making

BYLINE: By Tom Phillips Shanghai

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 496 words


Thirteen people have been executed in China after being convicted of involvement
in a litany of terrorist offences including arson, bomb-making and "ruthlessly"
murdering police officers and civilians.

The group was executed in the far western province of Xinjiang on Monday, as the
death sentence was also handed down to three others found guilty of
terror-related crimes connected to a deadly attack on Beijing's Tiananmen Square
last October.

Few specific details of the lives and crimes of the 13 people executed were
offered by China's heavily controlled state media.

However, initial reports said they were convicted of "organising, leading and
participating in terrorist groups; murder; arson; theft; and illegal
manufacture, storage and transportation of explosives".

Their crimes related to seven separate cases in at least three different parts
of Xinjiang, a vast region of western China that is nearly seven times the size
of the United Kingdom and is home to the Uighurs, a predominantly Muslim and
Turkic-speaking group.

Those executed had "planned attacks and killed police officers, government
officials and civilians. They took innocent lives, caused huge property losses,
and seriously endangered public security," court officials were quoted as saying
by Xinhua, China's official news agency.

In one case three defendants - named as Ehmetniyaz Sidiq, Abdulla Srepli and
Gulam Eli - were found guilty of leading an assault on buildings including a
police station, a hotel and government offices in which 24 police and civilians
were killed.

Abdujelil Metnasir, another of those executed, was found guilty of holding
"physical training for terrorists", planning the assassinations of government
officials and "providing" bombs that claimed the life of a child and injured 17
others.

"The execution of criminals involved in terrorist attacks and violent crimes
answers the calls of all ethnic groups, deters criminal activities, and
demonstrates the resolve of the Communist Party of China and the government in
cracking down on terrorism," a court spokesperson said.

The executions come amid a major nationwide security crackdown, which began in
late May following the latest episode of apparent terrorist violence that
Beijing has blamed on Islamic extremists from Xinjiang.

Since last October's attack on Tiananmen Square - which left five people dead,
including three attackers - there have been at least three more serious
incidents including attacks on train stations in Kunming and Urumqi, Xinjiang's
capital, and an early morning strike on an Urumqi market on May 22 that claimed
at least 31 lives.

Human rights activists have condemned the attacks on Chinese civilians while
expressing concern about the impact Beijing's crackdown may have on civil
liberties and religious freedoms in Xinjiang.

New laws were needed to regulate "the use of extreme religious symbols or
clothing," one Xinjiang-based academic told the state-run China Daily newspaper
on Tuesday.

LOAD-DATE: June 17, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTNS


                  Copyright 2014 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              145 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                       BBC Monitoring Africa - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                            June 18, 2014 Wednesday

Nigeria announces relief programme for areas affected by terror attacks

LENGTH: 1403 words


Text of report by Nigerian newspaper This Day website on 18 June

[Report by Ndubuisi Francis and Jaiyeola Andrews: "FG unfolds National Emergency
Relief Programme for north-east, others"]

The federal government yesterday announced a comprehensive National Emergency
Relief Programme for the country, which is to commence in the northeast, where
the attacks by Boko Haram terrorists have taken a devastating toll on the
region.

Coordinating Minister for the Economy and Minister of Finance, Dr Ngozi
Okonjo-Iweala, who spoke in Abuja alongside a former British Prime Minister and
United Nations Special Envoy on Education, Mr Gordon Brown, as well as the
Governors of Borno and Yobe States, Alhaji Kashim Shettima and Ibrahim Geidam,
and the Director General of the National Emergency Management Agency (NEMA),
Alhaji Sani Sidi, said the programme has a three-window structure.

The three-pronged structure, she explained, are the Emergency Relief Window,
econstruction/Rehabilitation Window, and Safe Schools Window. According to her,
the Emergency Relief Window would support the rapid/immediate deployment of
relief assistance to the affected communities and households.

The scope of support will include evacuation and temporary accommodation (tents,
mosquito nets and sanitation facilities), water supply (boreholes), provision of
food supplies, medical supplies and provision of first aid and emergency
healthcare services, and cash transfer programmes. The fund for this window, she
said, would also support a rapid needs assessment (where necessary), and also
help fill immediate security gaps, adding that this is meant to complement
NEMA's resources.

The Reconstruction/Rehabilitation Window is aimed at establishing support
programmes, including public works to repair dilapidated infrastructure (rural
roads and bridges) and provide temporary employment for the youth; introduce
cash transfer schemes; and provide agricultural inputs which will be delivered
through existing schemes like the e-wallet, among others.

This window is meant to fast-strack the provision and/or resuscitation of basic
services in healthcare (construction of health centres and clinics, including
essential medical supplies and deployment of health workers); reconstruction of
safe schools in the worst affected areas; and provision of scholarships to
affected students, among others.

The Safe School's Window would focus on education through the upgrading of
existing federal, state and local government schools to make them more secure
through various interventions, including proper fencing, alarm systems, school
guards, and other measures. This could include the introduction of modern and
environmentally-sustainable systems like solar power, to ensure that the schools
are well lit.

According to her, where the reconstruction of schools is necessary, the safe
schools window would partner the rehabilitation window to ensure that the
schools have the necessary safety features, adding that the window is a national
programme, but implementation would start with state of emergency states of
Borno, Yobe and Adamawa.

She recalled that the Safe Schools Initiative, which is a collaborative effort
of Nigerian business leaders, who are poised to take the lead in safe schools in
the north through the Global Business Coalition for Education, was launched when
Nigeria hosted the World Economic Forum on Africa (WEFA) in May this year. The
minister said the federal government had contributed 10m US dollars to boost the
effort of the business leaders, who had already put down 10m US dollars.

Okonjo-Iweala disclosed that the president had instructed her to open a trust
fund with N1.65 billion for the initiative, adding that the stakeholders were
looking at an initial target of $100 million (N165 billion) for the Safe Schools
Initiative. She explained that the initiative is a national programme, but
implementation would start with the emergency states of Borno, Yobe, and
Adamawa.

The minister also clarified that the Safe Schools Initiative was not aimed at
turning schools into armed camps but to enhance the atmosphere of safety and
security of schools, adding that the government was availing itself of the
expertise of Indian security experts with the requisite experience. She said
business leaders, the federal government, states, and global partners have
continued to support the initiative, pointing out that Brown had continued to
mobilise resources from across the globe for it.

According to her, very fruitful discussions had been held between President
Goodluck Jonathan and the Borno and Yobe States governors, and between herself
and the governors on how to make the Emergency Relief Programme work
effectively.

In his remarks, Brown described the Safe Schools Initiative as the biggest of
such programmes in the world, adding that no efforts would be spared to make
schools in the north as well as other parts of Nigeria safe. He expressed
appreciation to Geidam and Shettima for their commitment to make the initiative
work, noting that it was heart warming that the kidnapping of the over 200
Chibok schoolgirls had elicited such outpouring of global solidarity.

The former British leader expressed the hope that the Chibok school would be
rebuilt and the kidnapped girls returned to continue their education, pledging
that no effort would be spared to bring back the girls as well as enthrone an
environment of safety in schools across the country. Brown said the United
Kingdom, Norway, United States of America, African Development Bank (AfDB), and
a host of other nations and corporate entities were already partnering with the
initiative.

Geidam, in his comments, thanked the international community for finding it
necessary "to come to our aid", noting that since the advent of the insurgency,
his administration had committed about N10 billion to support the federal
government's efforts in combating the menace.

He pledged his support to the federal government, just as his Borno State
counterpart promised to work with the federal government to restore peace to the
north and other parts of the country. Shettima, who expressed optimism that the
insurgency would be surmounted, waxed philosophical, stating: "We shall rise and
sing song of victory again."

Prior to the briefing on the National Emergency Relief Programme, the president,
Brown, Shettima, Geidam and Okonjo-Iweala had met at the Presidential Villa,
where the Safe Schools Initiative was launched. Speaking to State House
reporters, Brown said: "I just came from a meeting with the president, every
child is special, precious and unique. I have come here with UN
Secretary-General Ban Ki-Moon, giving me his support to do so to send our
sympathies and our solidarity and our support to the children of Chibok who have
been cruelly kidnapped, and to give our support to the families of these girls
and to the whole communities in Borno State.

"And I am here to say that we wish as an international community to do
everything we can to back up the efforts of President Jonathan and the governors
of the states to make sure these girls are returned to their families and at the
same time to make sure that every parent feels that they can send their children
to school knowing they will be safe in future."

Geidam, on his part, promised the northeast governors' support to the UN envoy,
saying all the necessary cooperation to ensure that the programme succeeds would
be given by the governors. "We are also going to partner both with him and the
federal government under the leadership of President Goodluck Jonathan to ensure
that this programme becomes successful at the end of the day," the governor
said.

Shettima, in his remarks, said: "We have given our commitment to partner with
the federal government and the international community to ensure that we
promptly address with this problem confronting us. It is an issue that basically
boils down to education, poverty, empowerment.

"By the grace of God, we want to give you our commitment that we are going to
pursue this thing with vigour, all the resources, human and materials, at our
disposal and it will be completely devoid of politics. Times like this call for
sobriety and maturity for unity of purpose. At the appropriate time, we are
going to play politics but this is not the time for playing politics with the
lives of people."

Source: This Day website, Lagos, in English 0000 gmt 18 Jun 14

LOAD-DATE: June 18, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2014 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              146 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                            Belfast Telegraph Online

                      June 18, 2014 Wednesday 3:33 PM GMT

Iraq crisis: David Cameron warns militants are planning terrorist attack on UK;

The Prime Minister is chairing a meeting of the National Security Council

BYLINE: By Adam Withnall

SECTION: UK

LENGTH: 480 words


Britain faces a direct threat of terrorist attack from the Iraqi militants
currently advancing on Baghdad, David Cameron has warned.

The advance of Sunni fighters under the banner of the Islamic State of Iraq and
the Levant (Isis) has seen several key cities captured and battle lines drawn up
less than 60 minutes' drive from the capital.

And ahead of a meeting with his most senior security advisers to discuss the
UK's role in the ongoing crisis, the Prime Minister said people should be under
no illusions that the deteriorating Middle East security situation "won't affect
us".

While the US has deployed a number of warships to the Persian Gulf and sent some
275 soldiers to bolster security for its own assets in Iraq, both it and Britain
are yet to come to a decision over the form and scope of any possible Western
intervention.

The Prime Minister will today chair a meeting of the National Security Council,
in discussions that follow on from Foreign Secretary William Hague's two
statements to the Commons on Iraq this week.

As well as warning about the danger of British citizens going over to Iraq and
Syria, becoming radicalised and returning to carry out attacks, Mr Cameron said
Isis fighters themselves "are also planning to attack us here at home in the
UK".

Speaking at Prime Minister's Questions, he said: "I disagree with those people
who think this is nothing to do with us and if they want to have some sort of
extreme Islamist regime in the middle of Iraq, that won't affect us. It will.

"So the right answer is to be long-term, hard-headed, patient and intelligent
with the interventions that we make."

Mr Cameron said Britain was increasing the humanitarian aid it was sending to
people displaced by the fighting in Iraq from £3 million to £5 million.

He said it was "vital" that Isis was pushed back by the forces of the Iraqi
government after the sweeping gains it made last week.

Yesterday Mr Hague announced that the "circumstances are right" to reopen the
British embassy in Iran, approaching three years since it was closed when
protesters stormed the building and ransacked offices.

But while improved relations with Tehran have been discussed publicly by both
the US and UK in the two weeks since Isis's lightening campaign in Iraq began,
the Prime Minister insisted that the desire to restore diplomatic links went
beyond a simple plea for help dealing with the militants.

The Foreign Secretary said Iran was "an important country in a volatile region"
and said that it was important for Britain to maintain embassies all over the
world "even under difficult conditions".

"There has never been any doubt in my mind that we should have an embassy in
Tehran if the circumstances allowed," Mr Hague said.

He did not give a precise date for the embassy to reopen, saying there would be
a "small initial presence" as soon as "practical arrangements have been made".

LOAD-DATE: June 19, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBBELT


           Copyright 2014 Independent News & Media (Northern Ireland)
                              All Rights Reserved

                              147 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                          The Guardian - Final Edition

                            June 18, 2014 Wednesday

US forces capture suspected ringleader of 2012 Benghazi terror attack

BYLINE: Spencer Ackerman in Washington

SECTION: GUARDIAN HOME PAGES; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 502 words


US special forces have captured the suspected ringleader of a terror attack in
Benghazi in 2012 that killed four Americans, including the US ambassador to
Libya, and proved politically damaging to Barack Obama's administration.

Ahmed Abu Khattala was apprehended on Sunday and is now "in US custody in a
secure location outside of Libya", according to a statement from the Pentagon
press secretary, Rear Admiral John Kirby.

Obama vowed that Abu Khattala would face "the full weight of the American
justice system" and praised those responsible for the operation. The US "has
once again demonstrated that we will do whatever it takes to see that justice is
done when people harm Americans", he said, going on to praise the "painstaking
efforts of our military, law enforcement and intelligence personnel".

The US filed charges against Khattala and a number of others last year in a
sealed complaint in the district court in Washington. But this is the first
arrest in the attack in which a group of militants set fire to the US diplomatic
mission in Benghazi.

Abu Khattala, believed to be in his early 40s, has publicly taunted the US,
giving an interview to the New York Times the month after the assault in which
he mocked American and Libyan impotence while drinking a strawberry frappe on
the patio of a luxury Benghazi hotel.

The failure to apprehend the culprits has become a major political issue in the
year and a half since Christopher Stevens and three other Americans died, with
Republicans accusing the White House of lying over the incident which they say
revealed his weakness in dealing with terror. Stevens was the first US
ambassador to be killed in the line of duty in more than 30 years.

Obama's critics claim that he intentionally misled voters over the circumstances
of the attack to win re-election, portraying it as one of the many protests over
an anti-Muslim video made in America instead of a calculated terrorist attack
during his watch. The president has insisted that the information about the
video protests was the best available at the time.

The political fallout also affected Hillary Clinton, who was US secretary of
state at the time, and is expected to be used against her should she run for
president.

Clinton's successor at the State department, John Kerry, also welcomed the
arrest, saying: "This bold action by the superb United States military is a
clear reminder to anyone who dares do us harm that they will not escape with
impunity."

Attorney General Eric Holder said that the US has the option of charging Abu
Khattala with additional charges beyond the three criminal counts he faces, and
hinted that further arrests were possible.

A US official who spoke on condition of anonymity told the Associated Press that
the operation to capture Abu Khattala had been planned over a long period and
executed by US special operations forces in conjunction with the FBI.

Captions:

Christopher Stevens was the first United States ambassador to be killed in the
line of duty in more than 30 years

LOAD-DATE: June 18, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2014 Guardian Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              148 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                   MailOnline

                      June 18, 2014 Wednesday 2:07 PM GMT

'We have regained the initiative and are striking back', assures Iraqi PM as
ISIS plans wave of terror attacks on Baghdad

BYLINE: SIMON TOMLINSON and JOHN HALL

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 2895 words



     ·    Nouri al-Maliki's TV address comes as Iraqi government forces retake
          parts of strategic city near the Syrian border
     ·    Car bomb blast kills 12 and injures 30 in Baghdad as Islamist fanatics
          plan wave of terror attacks on the capital
     ·    Pentagon says Iraqi troops are now 'stiffening their resistance'
          around Baghdad with the help of Shi'ite volunteers
     ·    Gulf security expert believes ISIS have 'no real aspiration' to take
          the capital but will instead aim to 'cause havoc'
     ·    Dr David Roberts said: 'They are crazy in one sense, but have thus far
          been making intelligent strategic decisions'
     ·    Obama not expected to approve imminent air strikes, partly because
          there are few clear targets to curb offensive
     ·    ISIS militants are offering a rough travel guide for would-be
          jihadists in an attempt to recruit young Britons to Iraq
     ·    Thousands of volunteers in neighboring Iran have signed up to defend
          Shi'ite shrines under threat from ISIS


Iraq's prime minister said today that his government has regained the initiative
after the 'shock' defeat of its army and security forces in a lightning attack
by Sunni militants in the country's north.

Nouri al-Maliki, a Shi'ite who has been in office since 2006, said in a
televised address that the loss last week of a large swathe of territory has
helped Iraq restore its national unity.

'We were able to contain the strike and arrest deterioration... we have now
started our counter-offensive, regaining the initiative and striking back,' he
said.

Al-Maliki's upbeat assessment came as news broke of government forces regaining
parts of a strategic city near the Syrian border that was captured Monday by
fighters of the Islamic State of Iraq and the Levant.

It also came hours after the chief military spokesman, Lt General Qassim
al-Moussawi, said government forces repelled an attack by militants on the
country's largest oil refinery at Baiji, north of the capital.

Al-Moussawi said 40 attackers were killed in fighting there overnight and on
Wednesday morning.

Meanwhile, a car bomb in Baghdad's Shi'ite Sadr City district killed 12 people
and wounded 30 in a crowded outdoor market, police and hospital officials said.

No-one has yet claimed responsibility for the blast, but attacks targeting
Shi'ite districts are routinely the work of Sunni militants, who in the last
week have captured vast swathes of the country and are pressing towards the
capital.

The bombing came as an expert warned the insurgency by ISIS is likely to morph
from its current lightning offensive to guerrilla-style warfare as the militants
encounter tougher resistance around Baghdad.

Dr David Roberts, a lecturer in international relations and security in the Gulf
region at King's College University based in Qatar, believes ISIS have 'no real
aspiration' to take Baghdad, but would instead aim to 'cause havoc and increase
divides'.

He told MailOnline: 'It doesn't strike me as a realistic aim. They are crazy in
one sense of course, but have thus far been making rational intelligent
strategic decisions.

'Committing forces to take Baghdad, which is what you'd need to do to take it,
is not a good use of their resources.'

His comments came as it emerged ISIS militants are offering a rough travel guide
for would-be jihadists in an attempt to recruit young Britons to Iraq and Syria.

Extremists from Britain who have already arrived in the Middle East are now
using social media to encourage others back home to follow suit.

They advise people to travel light and bring a smart phone for internet access,
but to leave religious books at home to avoid suspicion at the airport.

As Iraqi officials trumpet plans for a counter-offensive, doubts are growing
that Iraq's security forces can hold back the tide.

However, Pentagon spokesman Rear Admiral John Kirby said Iraqi troops, with help
from Shi'ite volunteers, were 'stiffening their resistance' around Baghdad.

'It certainly appears as if they have the will to defend the capital,' he said.

U.S. officials said Barack Obama is not expected to approve imminent air strikes
in Iraq, partly because there are few clear targets that could blunt the
fast-moving uprising.

Meanwhile, ISIS targeted Iraq's largest oil refinery with mortar shells today,
threatening a facility key to the country's domestic supplies as part of their
ongoing offensive north of the capital, a top security official said.

NO CLEAR TARGETS YET FOR AIR STRIKES, SAYS OBAMA

Barack Obama is not expected to approve imminent air strikes in Iraq, partly
because there are few clear targets that could blunt the fast-moving uprising,
US officials have said.

They said President Obama had made no final decisions and did not rule out the
possibility that air strikes could ultimately be used, particularly if a strong
target became available.

But the officials said the strikes were not the immediate focus of the
administration's continuing discussions about how to respond to the crumbling
security situation in Iraq.

Mr Obama is due to brief congressional leaders on the matter at the White House
today.

Beyond air strikes, the US has also been considering the possibility of sending
a small contingent of special operations forces to Iraq to help train the
country's security forces.

Officials have also been looking at ways to boost the intelligence available to
Iraqi forces.

Clashes erupted at around 4am (1am GMT) at the Baiji refinery in Salaheddin
province, north of Baghdad, and some tanks containing refined products caught
fire.

The attack follows last week's capture by militants of wide swaths of territory
in northern Iraq and comes as the spectre of the sectarian warfare that nearly
tore the country apart in 2006 and 2007 now haunting those trying to decide how
to respond.

An employee of the state-owned North Oil Company said there had been casualties
among security force personnel and that staff had fled.

Officials said the refinery had been shut down and many employees evacuated
because major towns seized by the militants, including second city Mosul, were
no longer being supplied with refined products.

The Baiji refinery accounts for a little more than a quarter of the country's
entire refining capacity - all of which goes toward domestic consumption for
things like gasoline, cooking oil and fuel for power stations.

Any lengthy outage at Baiji risks long lines at the gas pump and electricity
shortages, adding to the chaos already facing Iraq.

It came as the Turkish Foreign Ministry said its diplomats were investigating
claims that militants abducted 60 foreign construction workers, including some
15 Turks, near the oil city of Kirkuk in northern Iraq.

The agency based its report on an unnamed worker who was reportedly freed by the
militants.

The Turkish Foreign Ministry could not immediately confirm the report but said
its embassy was investigating.

Farther north in the city of Tal Afar near the Syrian border, chief military
spokesman Lt General Qassim al-Moussawi said government forces backed by allied
tribesmen drove out Islamic State fighters from parts of the city they captured
Monday.

The capture of the city appeared to be a move to strengthen the Islamic State's
plan to carve out an 'Islamic emirate' that covers territory on both sides of
the territory.

There was no way to independently confirm al-Moussawi's claim, but state
television aired footage late yesterday of army troops and armed volunteers
disembarking from a transport C-130 aircraft at an airstrip near Ta Afar.

IRAQ ACCUSES SAUDI ARABIA OF PROMOTING 'GENOCIDE'

Baghdad has accused Saudi Arabia of supporting 'genocide' in Iraq through its
'financial and moral' backing of Sunni militants who have seized swathes of
territory across the country.

A statement issued by the Iraqi government said of Riyadh: 'We hold them
responsible for supporting these groups financially and morally and for the
outcome of that - which includes crimes that may qualify as genocide: the
spilling of Iraqi blood, the destruction of Iraqi state institutions and
historic and religious sites.'

Prime Minister Nuri al-Maliki has blamed Saudi Arabia for supporting militants
in the past, but the severe language was unprecedented.

Saudi Arabia, the main Sunni power in the Gulf, funds Sunni militants in Syria
but denies it is behind ISIS.

The Sunni militants of the Islamic State have vowed to march to Baghdad and the
Shi'ite holy cities of Karbala and Najaf in the worst threat to Iraq's stability
since U.S. troops left.

The three cities are home to some of the most revered Shi'ite shrines. The
Islamic State also has tried to capture Samarra north of Baghdad, home to
another major Shiite shrine.

Iran, a neighboring Shi'ite powerhouse, already has seen thousands volunteer to
defend the shrines.

Iranian President Hassan Rouhani, speaking today to a crowd gathered at a
stadium near his country's border with Iraq, said that the Islamic State and
others would be defeated.

'We declare to all superpowers, their mercenaries, murderers and terrorists that
the great Iranian nation will not miss any effort in protecting these sacred
sites,' Rouhani said.

More than a week after insurgents launched their lightning assault, Prime
Minister Nuri al-Maliki has dismissed several senior officers, including the
commander for the northern province of Nineveh, the first to fall.

Maliki also ordered that one of them face court-martial for desertion.

The dismissals came after soldiers and police fled en masse as insurgents swept
into Nineveh's capital Mosul, a city of two million, abandoning their vehicles
and uniforms.

The swift advance of the militants has sparked international alarm, with UN
envoy to Baghdad Nickolay Mladenov warning that Iraq's territorial integrity was
at stake.

'Right now, it's life-threatening for Iraq but it poses a serious danger to the
region,' Mladenov told AFP.

'Iraq faces the biggest threat to its sovereignty and territorial integrity' in
years, he added.

The violence has stoked regional tensions, with Iraq accusing neighbouring Saudi
Arabia Tuesday of 'siding with terrorism' and of being responsible for financing
the militants.

President Obama had made no final decisions on a course of action and did not
rule out the possibility that air strikes could ultimately be used, particularly
if a strong target became available, U.S. officials have said.

But the officials said the strikes were not the immediate focus of the
administration's continuing discussions about how to respond to the crumbling
security situation in Iraq.

Mr Obama is due to brief congressional leaders on the matter at the White House
today.

Beyond air strikes, the U.S. has also been considering the possibility of
sending a small contingent of special operations forces to Iraq to help train
the country's security forces.

15,000 FIGHTERS, 1,000 ASSASSINATIONS AND 4,000 IEDS: ISIS PUBLISHES 'ANNUAL
REPORT' OF ITS REIGN OF TERROR

The Islamist militant group ISIS publishes annual reports detailing its reign of
terror across the Middle East, it has been revealed.

In 2013 alone, the Islamic State of Iraq and the Levant, or ISIS, says it has
carried out nearly 10,000 operations in Iraq, 1,000 assassinations, planted
4,000 improvised explosion devices and freed hundreds of radical prisoners.

Isis also claims to have turned hundreds of 'apostates' and says it now has at
least 15,000 fighters in its ranks.

Details of the report emerged as new information about the way ISIS is funded
and attracts recruits came to light, with reports suggesting widespread support
in South East Asia, particularly Indonesia - the country with the world's
biggest Muslim population.

The reports for 2012 and 2013 have been analysed by the U.S.-based Institute for
the Study of War.

It is believed ISIS compiled the reports to attract potential donors and to
paint a picture of a well-organised military group with a clear political
strategy.

Nigel Inkster, former assistant chief of UK intelligence service MI6, told the
Financial Times : 'They produce [the reports] almost like a company, with
details of martyrdom operations and targets. You have a clear overlay of
structure, planning and strategy to the organisation.'

The documents also clearly mark out that the group's long-term intention is to
control the Sunni-populated areas of Iraq.

Financially, it is believed the group had already been extorting taxes from
businesses in Mosul before the Isis takeover and netting about £8million.

Out of the 15,000 fighters Isis has at its disposal, 12,000 of them are believed
to be from outside Iraq and Syria - the majority of these from neighbouring
Middle Eastern countries.

However, an estimated 2,000 are believed to have arrived from European
countries, including Britain, with a growing number of arrivals from countries
such as Malaysia and Indonesia.

It is from this South East Asia connection that Isis now attracts much of its
funding, according to a report in Time.

The claim is that, as jihadist movements in Malaysia and Indonesia weaken thanks
to arrests of high-profile Islamists in the wake of the 2002 Bali bombings,
extremists in South East Asia are now looking towards the conflicts in Iraq and
Syria as an outlet for their anger and finances.

Officials have also been looking at ways to boost the intelligence available to
Iraqi forces.

More broadly, the Obama administration is also pressing for Maliki to take steps
to make his Shi'ite-dominated government more inclusive.

Mr Obama said last week that any short-term U.S. military actions in Iraq would
not be successful unless they were accompanied by political changes by the
government in Baghdad.

Despite those calls, there were ominous signs of open warfare between Shi'ites
and Sunnis, the two main Muslim sects.

As well as the car bomb in Baghdad, nearly four dozen Sunni detainees were
gunned down at a jail north of Baghdad.

During the United States' eight-year presence in Iraq, American forces acted as
a buffer between the two Islamic sects, albeit with limited success.

U.S. forces fully withdrew at the end of 2011 when Washington and Baghdad could
not reach an agreement to extend the American military presence there.

But the Obama administration has been forced to rethink its relationship with
Iraq after the Al Qaeda-inspired group quickly took control of key Iraqi cities
last week.

Mr Obama has already notified the U.S. Congress that he is sending nearly 300
troops in and around Iraq to secure the US embassy in Baghdad and other American
assets.

ISIS FAR FROM THE ONLY THREAT: SEVERAL OTHER SUNNI MILITANT GROUPS ARE ALSO
ACTIVE IN IRAQ

Although ISIS have dominated media reports of the insurgency in Iraq, they are
far from the only Sunni force operating in the country.

At least half a dozen Sunni militant groups are active in Iraq and, although
ISIS's brutality makes them the most feared force, Hassan Hassan writing for the
Carnegie Endowment for International Peace says they may not be the strongest.

Ansar al-Islam

This jihadist militia was established in Iraqi Kurdistan in 2001 as a Salafist
Islamist movement that imposed a strict application of Sharia law in villages it
controlled around Biyara to the northeast of Halabja, near the Iranian border.

The U.S. Government has called Ansar al-Islam a terrorist organisation linked to
Al-Qaeda.

Military Council of the Tribes of Iraq

A coalition of nearly 80 tribes, the group has a strong presence in
Sunni-dominated areas such as Fallujah and Ramadi. Within the collective, there
are estimated to be around 41 armed groups, including former members of Saddam
Hussein's army.

Army of the Men of the Naqshbandi Order

Allegedly headed by former Iraqi vice president Izzat Ibrahim al-Douri, the
group is said to consist of thousands of former members of Saddam Hussein's
Baath party, as well as supporters of the Muslim Brotherhood movement.

With strong roots in the Sunni communities - especially in Mosul - the
Naqshbandis rival ISIS in terms of numbers.

General Military Council of the Iraqi Revolutionaries

Another group dominated by former Baath party members, the GMCIR claim to be
stronger and better equipped than ISIS. They claim, however, to adhere to the
principles of Geneva Convention, and have described ISIS forces as 'barbarian'
for not doing the same.

The Islamic Army

Another large armed force, the Islamic Army are believed to have prevented ISIS
entering the town of Dulu'iyya last week. They have wide support in the area
north of Baghdad.

Tribal forces

Armed Sunni tribal groups not affiliated with any wider movement are said to
control areas such as Alam, Hajjaj, al-Bu Ujail and parts of Mosul. However in
al-Wahda, Sukkar, Baladiyat, tribal forces are believed to have allied with the
Army of the Men of the Naqshbandi Order.

LOAD-DATE: June 18, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDM


                   Copyright 2014 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              149 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                   MailOnline

                      June 18, 2014 Wednesday 11:50 AM GMT

ISIS launches guerrilla war in Baghdad: Car bomb kills 12 as Islamist fanatics
plan wave of terror attacks on the capital

BYLINE: SIMON TOMLINSON and JOHN HALL

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 2682 words



     ·    No-one has claimed responsibility for blast in Sadr City, but attacks
          in Shi'ite areas are often work of Sunni militants
     ·    Pentagon says Iraqi troops are now 'stiffening their resistance'
          around Baghdad with the help of Shi'ite volunteers
     ·    Gulf security expert believes ISIS have 'no real aspiration' to take
          the capital but will instead aim to 'cause havoc'
     ·    Dr David Roberts said: 'They are crazy in one sense, but have thus far
          been making intelligent strategic decisions'
     ·    Obama not expected to approve imminent air strikes, partly because
          there are few clear targets to curb offensive
     ·    ISIS militants are offering a rough travel guide for would-be
          jihadists in an attempt to recruit young Britons to Iraq


A car bomb in Baghdad's Shi'ite Sadr City district killed 12 people and wounded
30 in a crowded outdoor market, police and hospital officials said.

No-one has yet claimed responsibility for the blast, but attacks targeting
Shi'ite districts are routinely the work of Sunni militants, who in the last
week have captured vast swathes of the country and are pressing towards the
capital.

The bombing came as an expert warned the insurgency by ISIS is likely to morph
from its current lightning offensive to guerrilla-style warfare as the militants
encounter tougher resistance around Baghdad.

Dr David Roberts, a lecturer in international relations and security in the Gulf
region at King's College University based in Qatar, believes ISIS have 'no real
aspiration' to take Baghdad, but would instead aim to 'cause havoc and increase
divides'.

He told MailOnline: 'It doesn't strike me as a realistic aim. They are crazy in
one sense of course, but have thus far been making rational intelligent
strategic decisions.

'Committing forces to take Baghdad, which is what you'd need to do to take it,
is not a good use of their resources.'

His comments came as it emerged ISIS militants are offering a rough travel guide
for would-be jihadists in an attempt to recruit young Britons to Iraq and Syria.

Extremists from Britain who have already arrived in the Middle East are now
using social media to encourage others back home to follow suit.

They advise people to travel light and bring a smart phone for internet access,
but to leave religious books at home to avoid suspicion at the airport.

As Iraqi officials trumpet plans for a counter-offensive, doubts are growing
that Iraq's security forces can hold back the tide.

However, Pentagon spokesman Rear Admiral John Kirby said Iraqi troops, with help
from Shi'ite volunteers, were 'stiffening their resistance' around Baghdad.

'It certainly appears as if they have the will to defend the capital,' he said.

U.S. officials said Barack Obama is not expected to approve imminent air strikes
in Iraq, partly because there are few clear targets that could blunt the
fast-moving uprising.

Meanwhile, ISIS targeted Iraq's largest oil refinery with mortar shells today,
threatening a facility key to the country's domestic supplies as part of their
ongoing offensive north of the capital, a top security official said.

NO CLEAR TARGETS YET FOR AIR STRIKES, SAYS OBAMA

Barack Obama is not expected to approve imminent air strikes in Iraq, partly
because there are few clear targets that could blunt the fast-moving uprising,
US officials have said.

They said President Obama had made no final decisions and did not rule out the
possibility that air strikes could ultimately be used, particularly if a strong
target became available.

But the officials said the strikes were not the immediate focus of the
administration's continuing discussions about how to respond to the crumbling
security situation in Iraq.

Mr Obama is due to brief congressional leaders on the matter at the White House
today.

Beyond air strikes, the US has also been considering the possibility of sending
a small contingent of special operations forces to Iraq to help train the
country's security forces.

Officials have also been looking at ways to boost the intelligence available to
Iraqi forces.

Clashes erupted at around 4am (1am GMT) at the Baiji refinery in Salaheddin
province, north of Baghdad, and some tanks containing refined products caught
fire.

The attack follows last week's capture by militants of wide swaths of territory
in northern Iraq and comes as the spectre of the sectarian warfare that nearly
tore the country apart in 2006 and 2007 now haunting those trying to decide how
to respond.

An employee of the state-owned North Oil Company said there had been casualties
among security force personnel and that staff had fled.

Officials said the refinery had been shut down and many employees evacuated
because major towns seized by the militants, including second city Mosul, were
no longer being supplied with refined products.

The Baiji refinery accounts for a little more than a quarter of the country's
entire refining capacity - all of which goes toward domestic consumption for
things like gasoline, cooking oil and fuel for power stations.

Any lengthy outage at Baiji risks long lines at the gas pump and electricity
shortages, adding to the chaos already facing Iraq.

It came as the Turkish Foreign Ministry said its diplomats were investigating
claims that militants abducted 60 foreign construction workers, including some
15 Turks, near the oil city of Kirkuk in northern Iraq.

The agency based its report on an unnamed worker who was reportedly freed by the
militants.

The Turkish Foreign Ministry could not immediately confirm the report but said
its embassy was investigating.

Farther north in the city of Tal Afar near the Syrian border, chief military
spokesman Lt General Qassim al-Moussawi said government forces backed by allied
tribesmen drove out Islamic State fighters from parts of the city they captured
Monday.

The capture of the city appeared to be a move to strengthen the Islamic State's
plan to carve out an 'Islamic emirate' that covers territory on both sides of
the territory.

There was no way to independently confirm al-Moussawi's claim, but state
television aired footage late yesterday of army troops and armed volunteers
disembarking from a transport C-130 aircraft at an airstrip near Ta Afar.

IRAQ ACCUSES SAUDI ARABIA OF PROMOTING 'GENOCIDE'

Baghdad has accused Saudi Arabia of supporting 'genocide' in Iraq through its
'financial and moral' backing of Sunni militants who have seized swathes of
territory across the country.

A statement issued by the Iraqi government said of Riyadh: 'We hold them
responsible for supporting these groups financially and morally and for the
outcome of that - which includes crimes that may qualify as genocide: the
spilling of Iraqi blood, the destruction of Iraqi state institutions and
historic and religious sites.'

Prime Minister Nuri al-Maliki has blamed Saudi Arabia for supporting militants
in the past, but the severe language was unprecedented.

Saudi Arabia, the main Sunni power in the Gulf, funds Sunni militants in
neighbouring Syria but denies it is behind ISIS.

The Sunni militants of the Islamic State have vowed to march to Baghdad and the
Shi'ite holy cities of Karbala and Najaf in the worst threat to Iraq's stability
since U.S. troops left.

The three cities are home to some of the most revered Shiite shrines. The
Islamic State also has tried to capture Samarra north of Baghdad, home to
another major Shiite shrine.

Iran, a neighboring Shi'ite powerhouse, already has seen thousands volunteer to
defend the shrines.

Iranian President Hassan Rouhani, speaking Wednesday to a crowd gathered at a
stadium near his country's border with Iraq, said that the Islamic State and
others would be defeated.

'We declare to all superpowers, their mercenaries, murderers and terrorists that
the great Iranian nation will not miss any effort in protecting these sacred
sites,' Rouhani said.

More than a week after insurgents launched their lightning assault, Prime
Minister Nuri al-Maliki has dismissed several senior officers, including the
commander for the northern province of Nineveh, the first to fall.

Maliki also ordered that one of them face court-martial for desertion.

The dismissals came after soldiers and police fled en masse as insurgents swept
into Nineveh's capital Mosul, a city of two million, abandoning their vehicles
and uniforms.

The swift advance of the militants has sparked international alarm, with UN
envoy to Baghdad Nickolay Mladenov warning that Iraq's territorial integrity was
at stake.

'Right now, it's life-threatening for Iraq but it poses a serious danger to the
region,' Mladenov told AFP.

'Iraq faces the biggest threat to its sovereignty and territorial integrity' in
years, he added.

The violence has stoked regional tensions, with Iraq accusing neighbouring Saudi
Arabia Tuesday of 'siding with terrorism' and of being responsible for financing
the militants.

President Obama had made no final decisions on a course of action and did not
rule out the possibility that air strikes could ultimately be used, particularly
if a strong target became available, U.S. officials have said.

But the officials said the strikes were not the immediate focus of the
administration's continuing discussions about how to respond to the crumbling
security situation in Iraq.

Mr Obama is due to brief congressional leaders on the matter at the White House
today.

Beyond air strikes, the U.S. has also been considering the possibility of
sending a small contingent of special operations forces to Iraq to help train
the country's security forces.

15,000 FIGHTERS, 1,000 ASSASSINATIONS AND 4,000 IEDS: ISIS PUBLISHES 'ANNUAL
REPORT' OF ITS REIGN OF TERROR

The Islamist militant group ISIS publishes annual reports detailing its reign of
terror across the Middle East, it has been revealed.

In 2013 alone, the Islamic State of Iraq and the Levant, or ISIS, says it has
carried out nearly 10,000 operations in Iraq, 1,000 assassinations, planted
4,000 improvised explosion devices and freed hundreds of radical prisoners.

Isis also claims to have turned hundreds of 'apostates' and says it now has at
least 15,000 fighters in its ranks.

Details of the report emerged as new information about the way ISIS is funded
and attracts recruits came to light, with reports suggesting widespread support
in South East Asia, particularly Indonesia - the country with the world's
biggest Muslim population.

The reports for 2012 and 2013 have been analysed by the U.S.-based Institute for
the Study of War.

It is believed ISIS compiled the reports to attract potential donors and to
paint a picture of a well-organised military group with a clear political
strategy.

Nigel Inkster, former assistant chief of UK intelligence service MI6, told the
Financial Times : 'They produce [the reports] almost like a company, with
details of martyrdom operations and targets. You have a clear overlay of
structure, planning and strategy to the organisation.'

The documents also clearly mark out that the group's long-term intention is to
control the Sunni-populated areas of Iraq.

Financially, it is believed the group had already been extorting taxes from
businesses in Mosul before the Isis takeover and netting about £8million.

Out of the 15,000 fighters Isis has at its disposal, 12,000 of them are believed
to be from outside Iraq and Syria - the majority of these from neighbouring
Middle Eastern countries.

However, an estimated 2,000 are believed to have arrived from European
countries, including Britain, with a growing number of arrivals from countries
such as Malaysia and Indonesia.

It is from this South East Asia connection that Isis now attracts much of its
funding, according to a report in Time.

The claim is that, as jihadist movements in Malaysia and Indonesia weaken thanks
to arrests of high-profile Islamists in the wake of the 2002 Bali bombings,
extremists in South East Asia are now looking towards the conflicts in Iraq and
Syria as an outlet for their anger and finances.

Officials have also been looking at ways to boost the intelligence available to
Iraqi forces.

More broadly, the Obama administration is also pressing for Maliki to take steps
to make his Shi'ite-dominated government more inclusive.

Mr Obama said last week that any short-term U.S. military actions in Iraq would
not be successful unless they were accompanied by political changes by the
government in Baghdad.

Despite those calls, there were ominous signs of open warfare between Shi'ites
and Sunnis, the two main Muslim sects.

As well as the car bomb in Baghdad, nearly four dozen Sunni detainees were
gunned down at a jail north of Baghdad.

During the United States' eight-year presence in Iraq, American forces acted as
a buffer between the two Islamic sects, albeit with limited success.

U.S. forces fully withdrew at the end of 2011 when Washington and Baghdad could
not reach an agreement to extend the American military presence there.

But the Obama administration has been forced to rethink its relationship with
Iraq after the Al Qaeda-inspired group quickly took control of key Iraqi cities
last week.

Mr Obama has already notified the U.S. Congress that he is sending nearly 300
troops in and around Iraq to secure the US embassy in Baghdad and other American
assets.

ISIS FAR FROM THE ONLY THREAT: SEVERAL OTHER SUNNI MILITANT GROUPS ARE ALSO
ACTIVE IN IRAQ

Although ISIS have dominated media reports of the insurgency in Iraq, they are
far from the only Sunni force operating in the country.

At least half a dozen Sunni militant groups are active in Iraq and, although
ISIS's brutality makes them the most feared force, Hassan Hassan writing for the
Carnegie Endowment for International Peace says they may not be the strongest.

Ansar al-Islam

This jihadist militia was established in Iraqi Kurdistan in 2001 as a Salafist
Islamist movement that imposed a strict application of Sharia law in villages it
controlled around Biyara to the northeast of Halabja, near the Iranian border.

The U.S. Government has called Ansar al-Islam a terrorist organisation linked to
Al-Qaeda.

Military Council of the Tribes of Iraq

A coalition of nearly 80 tribes, the group has a strong presence in
Sunni-dominated areas such as Fallujah and Ramadi. Within the collective, there
are estimated to be around 41 armed groups, including former members of Saddam
Hussein's army.

Army of the Men of the Naqshbandi Order

Allegedly headed by former Iraqi vice president Izzat Ibrahim al-Douri, the
group is said to consist of thousands of former members of Saddam Hussein's
Baath party, as well as supporters of the Muslim Brotherhood movement.

With strong roots in the Sunni communities - especially in Mosul - the
Naqshbandis rival ISIS in terms of numbers.

General Military Council of the Iraqi Revolutionaries

Another group dominated by former Baath party members, the GMCIR claim to be
stronger and better equipped than ISIS. They claim, however, to adhere to the
principles of Geneva Convention, and have described ISIS forces as 'barbarian'
for not doing the same.

The Islamic Army

Another large armed force, the Islamic Army are believed to have prevented ISIS
entering the town of Dulu'iyya last week. They have wide support in the area
north of Baghdad.

Tribal forces

Armed Sunni tribal groups not affiliated with any wider movement are said to
control areas such as Alam, Hajjaj, al-Bu Ujail and parts of Mosul. However in
al-Wahda, Sukkar, Baladiyat, tribal forces are believed to have allied with the
Army of the Men of the Naqshbandi Order.

LOAD-DATE: June 18, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDM


                   Copyright 2014 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              150 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                  mirror.co.uk

                      June 18, 2014 Wednesday 10:45 PM GMT

David Cameron: 'ISIS and Syria jihadists are planning terror attacks on
Britain';
The Prime Minister says the growing boldness of jihadist groups in the Middle
East could have serious consequences for British security

BYLINE: By Jack Blanchard

SECTION: NEWS,WORLD NEWS

LENGTH: 390 words


Extremists overrunning Iraqare planning terror strikes on Britain, David Cameron
warned today.

The PM told the House of Commons that ISIS "as well as trying to take territory,
ISIS are also              planning to attack us here in the UK".

His warning came as it emerged extremists from Britain who have already arrived
in the Middle East are              using Twitterto encourage others to follow
suit.

Two Isis militants, Abu Abdullah al-Britani and Abu Hussain al-Britani, uploaded
photos of themselves with guns, and offered would-be jihadists travel advice.

It included leaving religious books at home to avoid suspicion at the airport.

The Foreign Office estimates up to 500 Britons have              gone to fight
in Syria.

Terror expert Professor Peter Neumann of King's College London said Britain
faces a "significant" threat for years to come.

He said: "I think the government is absolutely right in highlighting this."

Mr Cameron's spokesmansaid 40 people were arrested in the first three months of
2014 for activities "linked to Syria".

There were only 25 arrests in whole of 2013.

The Home Office also confiscated 14 passports from suspected terrorists to
prevent them from travelling to the Middle East to fight last year.

Mr Cameron said it was vital to halt ISIS and insisted: "I disagree with those
people who think that having some sort of extreme Islamist regime in the middle
of Iraq will not affect us - because it will."

Tonight the Iraqi Government had requested air strikes against Isis.

But after a National Security Council meeting yesterday, No10 ruled out UK
military action.

Britain yesterday increased aid for refugees from Iraq from £3million to
£5million.

Meanwhile, Syrian helicopter gunships fired on refugees at Jordan's border
today, killing at least seven people, activist groups claimed.

The attack was in Daraa, where the 2011 uprising against Bashar Assad's
government began.

And a suicide bomber on a tricycle taxi killed at least 14 soccer fans watching
Brazil's World Cup match against Mexico on TV in Nigeria.

Another 26 were wounded in Damaturu. Local Musa Mohammed said: "There was just a
flash of light. Many people have lost limbs."

The fans had ignored a ban on outdoor TV viewing areas brought in after they had
been              targeted by Boko Haram terrorists.

Should Britain intervene in Iraq?

LOAD-DATE: September 5, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDMI


                      Copyright 2014 Trinity Mirror, Plc.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              151 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                  mirror.co.uk

                      June 18, 2014 Wednesday 8:03 AM GMT

US grab Benghazi terror suspect 'as he plotted more attacks on the West';
Joint FBI/special forces operation lands suspected terror mastermind Ahmed Abu
Khatallah

BYLINE: By Alex Wellman

SECTION: NEWS,WORLD NEWS

LENGTH: 261 words


United States special forces have captured the suspected mastermind of a deadly
attack that killed four Americans - amid claims he was plotting to unleash more
terror.

The Pentagon last night revealed it had captured Ahmed Abu Khatallah on the
outskirts of Benghazi in a joint operation between the FBI and special forces
and was holding him on terror and murder charges.

Khatallah is accused of being a senior figure in the deadly attack on a US
embassy in Benghazi in 2012 that killed four Americans including the country's
ambassador to Libya Chris Stevens.

According to the Pentagon press secretary Rear Admiral John Kirby, Khattalah is
now "in US custody in a secure location outside of Libya".

President Obama said that the arrest showed the United States would "do whatever
it takes to see that justice is done when people harm Americans" and that
Khattalah would face "the full weight of the American justice system."

The arrest was justified by the United States in a letter to the UN Security
Council where it claimed the suspected terrorist had been planning to target
more Americans.

In the letter, U.S. Ambassador to the United Nations, Samantha Power, said: "The
investigation also determined that he continued to plan further armed attacks
against U.S. persons.

"The measures we have taken to capture Abu Khatallah in Libya were therefore
necessary to prevent such armed attacks, and were taken in accordance with the
United States' inherent right of self-defence."

The letter also said Khatallah would be presented to U.S. Federal Court for
criminal prosecution.

LOAD-DATE: September 5, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDMI


                      Copyright 2014 Trinity Mirror, Plc.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              152 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                      June 18, 2014 Wednesday 5:19 PM GMT

David Cameron: Isis terrorists are planning attacks in Britain;
The Prime Minister says the crisis in Iraq must not be ignored as jihadists will
'attack us here at home'

BYLINE: By Georgia Graham Political Correspondent

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 492 words


Jihadists from the Islamic terrorist group Isis are planning attacks on British
soil, David Cameron has said.

The Prime Minister warned that the current crisis in Iraq must not be dismissed
as a foreign problem because the same terrorists are planning to "attack us here
at home in the United Kingdom".

Insurgents from Iraq, Somalia, Nigeria and Mali as well as those in Syria must
be dealt with or the "problems will come back and his us at home".

Mr Cameron issued his warning at Prime Minister Questions following his fears
that British born extremists fighting in Iraq and Syria now represent the most
serious threat to our security.

Hundreds of Britons are connected to Islamic State of Iraq and the Levant, known
as Isis, which controls large swathes of Iraq and has overtaken the al-Qa'ida
organisation founded by Osama bin Laden as the most powerful and effective
extreme jihadi group in the world.

William Hague, the Foreign Secretary has said Britain can withdraw leave to
remain from the fighters, cancel passports or arrest any UK jihadists fighting
in Syria or for Isis in Iraq.

Mr Cameron told MPs: "I'd disagree with those people who think this is nothing
to do with us and if they want to have some sort of extreme Islamist regime in
the middle of Iraq that won't affect us - it will," he said.

"The people in that regime, as well as trying to take territory, are also
planning to attack us here at home in the United Kingdom."

He added: "The right answer is to be long term, hard-headed, patient and
intelligent with the interventions that we make, and the most important
intervention of all is to make sure that these governments are fully
representative of the people who live in their countries, that they close down
the ungoverned space, and they remove the support for the extremists.

"If we do that, not just in Syria, but we have to help in Iraq, in Somalia, in
Nigeria, in Mali, because these problems will come back and hit us at home if we
don't."

Mr Cameron said the Iraqi government needed to take a more inclusive approach to
the Shia, Sunni and Kurd populations who live in the country as he announced a
£2m increase in the humanitarian aid budget for Iraq, increasing it to £5m
overall.

The Prime Minister added: "The estimates given so far is around 400 people from
the UK have taken part in fighting with Isis but those numbers are much more
based around what is happening in Syria, rather than what is happening in Iraq
where we have considerably less information.

"What I can say to you is together with the Home Secretary and others I have
chaired a series of meetings in Whitehall to make sure our intelligence,
security and policing services are focused as sharply as they can onto this
problem.

"The estimates are now this is a greater threat to the UK than the return of
foreign jihadis or fighters from Afghanistan or Pakistan region, and we need to
make sure we are doing everything we can to keep our country safe."

LOAD-DATE: June 19, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTNS


                  Copyright 2014 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              153 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                           Croydon Advertiser Series

                             June 19, 2014 Thursday

Terror of minicab driver after attack by two passengers

BYLINE: Rachel Millard rachel.millard@croydonadvertiser.co.uk

SECTION: NEWS:PEOPLE; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 415  words


A MINICAB driver has spoken of the terrifying moment  he was attacked by two
passengers who grabbed him by the throat  from the back seat and told him,
"Don't f*** about".

Nana Emiar, 53, said he managed to fight off the  two men he had collected from
Brighton Road in Coulsdon  town centre and flee until he was helped by passing
police.

His Mercedes Vito was later found burned out in the Fox car park in Happy
Valley, about half-a-mile from the attack. Police are investigating.

The cabbie from District Cars, Coulsdon, said he was driving his  passengers up
Tollers Lane at about 1.30am on Sunday when they reached  over.

He said: "They grabbed me from the back, grabbed my throat and then I was
struggling with them.

"One of them tried to come into the front and  I held his neck, and then as I
was opening my mouth to shout help, his  fingers went into my mouth and I was
biting."

The Croydon resident said  at first he could not get out of the car as his
seatbelt was on, but he managed to struggle free on to the pavement and run
away. A passing police car picked him up.

He added:  "It was very terrifying, very terrifying. When they first grabbed me
they said, 'Don't f*** about."

Mr Emiar said he did not think the men had  booked the cab, but  told him it had
been  booked on their   behalf by the person he was expecting.

He said the men had told him they needed to pick up a girlfriend in Old Coulsdon
before going to the car's pre-booked destination.

His alleged attackers did not make any motive clear, not asking for money nor
using any racist abuse.

He  described one of them as a white man in his 40s  wearing  grey trousers and
a T-shirt, but said he did not properly see the other.

His livelihood is seriously affected by the loss of the car, which he bought on
finance and  owes several months on, while his mobile phones, minicab licence
and driving licence were inside.

Mr Emiar and his colleagues hope at least one of the attackers  might be
recognisable due to bite injuries to his hand, and want anyone with any
information to contact police.

District Cars boss Stephen Jones said: "Nana has been with us for many years; he
is like a member of the family, a piece of the furniture. He is very loved by a
lot of people in Old Coulsdon and the office and fellow drivers will be going
all they can to help."

A police spokesman said inquiries continued but there had been no arrests yet.

Anyone with information can call Crimestoppers on 0800 555 111.

LOAD-DATE: June 20, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: DESTROYED: Nana Emiar's minicab was found burned out in the Fox car
park in Happy Valley after the attack

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                           Copyright 2014 Localworld
                              All Rights Reserved

                              154 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                            Global Capital Euroweek

                                 June 19, 2014

Kenya shrugs off terrorist attacks to make $2bn debut

BYLINE: Steven Gilmore

SECTION: KENYA,AFRICA,CEEMEA

LENGTH: 657  words



HIGHLIGHT: The Republic of Kenya ploughed ahead with a dual tranche debut
Eurobond on Monday despite terrorist attacks in coastal Mpeketoni on Sunday and
Monday nights. But investors still flocked to place over $8bn in orders,
allowing Kenya to price a colossal $2bn for its inaugural offering.


<p>Debt bankers on the bond considered whether or not to push ahead with the
deal on Monday morning. But international accounts were already aware of the
threat of terrorism in Kenya, and as the underlying demand remained strong they
opted to continue, said one. In the end the headlines had no effect on appetite,
and Kenya printed the joint largest sovereign bond ever from sub-Saharan
Africa.</p> <p>"The sovereign got the size, pricing and performance it wanted
and the result just confirms the real depth and quality of the bid for single-B
African issuance," said John Wright, European syndicate official at Barclays in
London. </p> <p>Leads Barclays, JP Morgan, Standard Bank and Qatar National Bank
Invest set initial price guidance on the sovereign's five and 10 year bonds in
the low 6% and 7% yield area, respectively.

They priced the $500m five year and $1.5bn 10 year tranches at 5.875% and 6.875%
respectively, having decided against pushing the pricing further. </p> <p>Both
tranches were priced at par, and the 10 year bond was bid at a cash price of 102
on Thursday and the five note at 101.375. But this had to be seen in the context
of a market hungrily chasing fresh paper, said leads. Some bankers away from the
deal had expected a tighter finish on the 10 year, but the final price was
determined by clear feedback from accounts, said the leads.</p> <p>There was a
strong consensus from investors on a 7% start for initial price thoughts, said
one, and despite the large order book a 6.75% finish would have been too
aggressive a price move.</p> <p>"We had real money institutional accounts
explicitly saying they were willing to be in for a certain amount at 7%, a bit
less at 6.875% but at 6.75% they were out," said the debt banker. "When you get
that type of feedback, the response isn't to test them. We had very clear push
back."</p><p><br></p><h3>Zambia examined</h3><p>Nor could the leads have started
execution any tighter. The vast majority of accounts used Zambia as the most
relevant price comparable. Some argued that as Kenya was planning on a large
debut print, it should price wide of Zambia, and others felt that Kenya's
superior credit story meant it should price inside. Either way, Zambia's trading
levels anchored initial price thoughts.</p> <p>A banker away from the deal had
Zambia's 2024 bonds trading at 6.98% when Kenya opened books, although the
banker on the Kenya debut saw them trading in the low 7% area. He felt that the
low 7% area for Kenya's initial price thoughts was at or even inside Zambia's
secondary levels, and added that a new Zambia 10 year would have been priced
around 7.25%.</p> <p>"The overwhelming feedback was for a low 7% start for the
10 year," he said.</p> <p>Roadshow feedback had also pointed towards a 10 year
deal, as accounts were eager for duration, the banker said. But Kenya had always
wanted $1.5bn-$2bn for its inaugural issue, and accounts were adamant that no
one bond should be too large, he added. But even so, the sheer size of the
Kenyan debut was impressive.</p> <p>"Towards the end of last year Nigeria split
a deal into five and 10 year bonds to get $1bn from the market, and Zambia's
$1bn 10 year deal in April was considered large," said another debt banker on
the deal. "Just look at where the market is now."</p> <p>Kenya's deal will also
be welcome among prospective Kenyan borrowers eyeing their own international
debuts.</p> <p>"It's tough to say anything hard on timing," said the banker.
"But the sovereign clearly paves the way for corporate and financial issuers.
The $8bn book shows the depth of demand for the credit story, and having clarity
in five and 10 years from the sovereign means issuers will waste less time on
price discovery."</p>

LOAD-DATE: July 14, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: EUROW


              Copyright 2014 Euromoney Institutional Investor PLC
                              All Rights Reserved

                              155 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                Kentish Express

                                 June 19, 2014

My attack terror in the dark

BYLINE: Exclusive

LENGTH: 138  words


A victim of notorious Ashford sex attacker John Williams is pleading for
streetlights to be turned back on at night

Jemma Russell wants to save others from suffering her nightmare.

She was just 18 when Williams grabbed her from behind as she walked near
Singleton Lake, in the dark, in November 2010.

Luckily for Jemma, now 22, Williams was disturbed by a cyclist and ran off.

He was jailed for life last month for a string of sex attacks over two decades.
When she heard Kent County Council was turning off streetlights overnight to
save money, painful memories came flooding back and now she has launched an
online petition.

She said: "I feel paranoid walking in the dark, I think it could happen again.
Williams has been sentenced now but that doesn't stop other people doing it."

n Full story on page 5

THURSDAY, JUNE 19, 2014  £1.10

LOAD-DATE: June 19, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2014 KM Media Group Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                              156 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                               Leicester Mercury

                             June 19, 2014 Thursday

Iraq extremists 'planning terror attacks on Britain'

SECTION: AGENCY:CITY; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 407  words


Britain cannot afford to see the creation of an "extreme Islamist regime" in the
middle of Iraq, David Cameron has said.

The Prime Minister said that the militants of the Islamic State of Iraq and the
Levant (Isis) threatening the government in Baghdad were also plotting terror
attacks on the UK.

Mr Cameron, who is due to chair a meeting of the National Security Council to
discuss the crisis in Iraq, said returning militants from the fighting in the
Iraq and neighbouring Syria were now assessed to represent a greater threat than
those from Afghanistan.

While Britain supported efforts of Iraqi prime minister Nouri al-Maliki to
tackle extremism in his country, he said that it was essential that the Iraqi
government represented the interests of all the people and not just the Shia
majority.

"I disagree with those people who think this is nothing to do with us and if
they want to have have some sort of extreme Islamist regime in the middle of
Iraq, that won't affect us. It will," Mr Cameron told MPs at Prime Minister's
Questions.

"The people in that regime - as well as trying to take territory - are also
planning to attack us here at home in the United Kingdom.

"So the right answer is to be long-term, hard-headed, patient and intelligent
with the interventions that we make.

"The most important intervention of all is to make sure that these governments
are fully representative of the people who live in their countries, they close
down the ungoverned space, and that they remove the support for the extremists."

Mr Cameron said Britain was increasing the humanitarian aid it was sending to
people displaced by the fighting in Iraq from £3 million to £5 million.

He said it was "vital" that Isis was pushed back by the forces of the Iraqi
government.

In the UK, he said, security, intelligence and policing resources were focused
on the Middle East region and the dangers of British people travelling there
becoming radicalised and returning home.

"The estimates are now that this is a greater threat to the UK than the return
of foreign jihadis or fighters from the Afghanistan or Pakistan region," he told
the Commons.

Mr Cameron stressed that British assistance to the rebels in Syria - where Isis
is also engaged in fighting the forces of president Bashar Assad - had been
directed to the official opposition.

He said that other countries in the region, which have been accused of supplying
more extremist elements, should do the same.

LOAD-DATE: June 20, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                           Copyright 2014 Localworld
                              All Rights Reserved

                              157 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                            Manchester Evening News

                             June 19, 2014 Thursday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

Britain 'faces significant risk of Isis terror attack for years';
Expert in extremism says western countries will be'haunted'by threat of attacks.
.

BYLINE: Hayden Smith

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 360 words


RITAIN will be'haunted'by the threat of terror Battacks by fighters returning
from Syria and Iraq for many years to come, a security expert has warned.

Professor Peter Neumann, of King's College London, said the country faced a
"significant" risk from a minority of those who joined groups such as Islamic
State of Iraq and the Levant (Isis).

David Cameron today warned Islamist militants challenging the government in Iraq
represented "a real threat to our country".

Professor Neumann, director of the International Centre for the Study of
Radicalisation (ICSR), said: "I think the government is absolutely right in
highlighting this as a significant threat.

"I think personally that it is a threat that will continue to haunt this country
and other European and western countries for years to come.

"Even if Isis is pushed back from Iraq, they are still going to exist. This is
going to be keeping the security services and police busy for many years to
come."

The ICSR estimates that between 400 and 500 Britons have gone to fight in Syria,
with many believed to have joined the ranks of Isis.

Professor Neumann said: "Up to about a week ago almost all of them were in Syria
but we are now seeing reports of people crossing the border into Iraq."

He said previous research into militants returning from war zones to western
countries suggests around one in nine subsequently become involved in domestic
terrorism.

"Therefore you might expect maybe 50 people to become involved in terrorist
activities, " he said. "The threat [to the UK] is not as great as it is often
portrayed - being a foreign fighter does not automatically mean you will want to
blow up a London bus.

"But there is a signifi-cant risk from a minority of people who have gone to
join Jihadist groups.

"If you go to Syria to fight it does not automatically mean you will become a
terrorist, however it is not true either to say these people are not dangerous
just because they are fighting in a foreign country. A minority of them will
pose a threat."

Professor Neumann said research has suggested that plots that involve those who
have fought abroad are more likely to be 'viable' and kill more people.

LOAD-DATE: June 19, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: A picture on Twitter by. .Isis fighters in Syria

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: MEN


                     Copyright 2014 Manchester Evening News
                              All Rights Reserved

                              158 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                               Stoke The Sentinel

                             June 19, 2014 Thursday

'Militants plotting terror attacks in UK'

SECTION: NEWS:LETTERS; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 93  words


BRITAIN cannot afford to see the creation of an 'extreme Islamist regime' in the
middle of Iraq, David Cameron has said. The Prime Minister said the militants of
the Islamic State of Iraq and the Levant (Isis) threatening the government in
Baghdad were also plotting terror attacks on the UK. Mr Cameron said returning
militants were now assessed to represent a greater threat than those from
Afghanistan. Mr Cameron told MPs at Prime Minister's questions. "The people in
that regime - as well as trying to take territory - are also planning to attack
us here."

LOAD-DATE: June 20, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                           Copyright 2014 Localworld
                              All Rights Reserved

                              159 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                       June 20, 2014 Friday 12:02 PM GMT

Kenya's tourist industry braced for fallout;
Travel firms in Kenya are struggling to reassure visitors concerned by recent
attacks but have vowed not to let terrorists win

BYLINE: By Natalie Paris

SECTION: TRAVEL

LENGTH: 721 words


"It's been a very difficult few months," said Nigel Vere Nicoll, CEO of the
African Travel & Tourism Association (Atta), "but not one tourist has been hurt,
so we cannot give in to this climate of fear that Al Shabaab are trying to
spread."

Lamu Island, where tourism is a key source of income for thousands of people, is
braced for a fallout after massacres last week in and around Mpeketoni - about
20 miles from the island.

"I don't think we're going to have any tourists here anymore," Ziwa Abdallah
Mohamed, who has worked as a tour guide on Lamu Island since the early 1970s, a
time when it was a hippy destination, told the AFP news agency. "It's totally
dead."

The large hotels and high-end villas in the island's Shela village, famed for
its vast beach, are almost all empty until at least August, according to the AFP
report.

In one major hotel, of nearly 30 reservations for July, only two have not
cancelled, and employees in some places have been asked to stay home "until
further notice."

Workers at the famous Peponi Hotel in Shela, open since 1967, were defiant
however, assuring that the seafront establishment would open on July 1, like it
does every year.

Mr Vere Nicoll, of Atta, said a Foreign Office ban on all but essential travel
to Mombasa Island - albeit excluding Diani or Moi international airports - has
affected numbers travelling to the coast.

Even though the airports are exempt from the ban, TUI, which owns Thomson and
First Choice, has cancelled all outbound flights to Mombasa - and therefore all
of its flights to Kenya - until October 31.

"We wanted to keep Mombasa Island as a hub open but then the Foreign Office's
advice covered the whole island," said Mr Vere Nicoll.

He said that exits from the airport use two roads that are currently impassable.

"So the effect meant that anyone flying into Mombasa could only get out in a
small plane. Diani has been hardest hit, it's been affected it very badly."

As it is low season in Kenya at the moment, he said it was hard to talk about
numbers, but acknowledged that reassuring visitors would be a hard task.

"People in Europe and the US don't appreciate the distances," he said. "In fact
we are talking about very small areas with non-essential travel warnings at the
moment."

Those running safaris in Kenya are more confident that they can ride out the
storm.

"This is a terrorist group that is hitting the coast and city centres," said
Chris McIntyre, managing director of Expert Africa, "both of which are fairly
accessible. It would be harder to hit remote camps in the bush and so I think
people recognise that safari areas are safer."

ABTA thought British tourists would not be unduly concerned. "ABTA's experience
is that British holidaymakers tend to take a realistic and measured attitude
when travelling overseas and they also trust the Foreign Office to make an
accurate assessment of risk," a spokesman said.

"The Foreign Office is advising against travel to specific parts of Kenya, there
are many other parts of the country that are popular with tourists where travel
advice remains unchanged.

"Undoubtedly high-profile and violent incidents throw an international spotlight
onto a country and may have an immediate negative impact on bookings, but if the
incidents are isolated and local authorities respond in a confident way, then
typically tourism tends to be resilient over the longer-term."

The Foreign Office currently warns: "There is a high threat from terrorism,
including kidnapping. The main threat comes from extremists linked to Al
Shabaab, a militant group that has carried out attacks in Kenya in response to
Kenya's military intervention in Somalia."

Travel Guides app
Download the free Telegraph Travel app, featuring expert guides to destinations
including Paris, Rome, New York, Venice and Amsterdam

Follow Telegraph Travel on Twitter
Follow Telegraph Travel on Facebook
Follow Telegraph Travel on Pinterest
Follow Telegraph Travel on FourSquare

LOAD-DATE: June 20, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTNS


                  Copyright 2014 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              160 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                       June 20, 2014 Friday 11:38 AM GMT

Kenya's tourist industry braced for fallout;
Travel firms in Kenya are struggling to reassure visitors concerned by recent
attacks but have vowed not to let terrorists win

BYLINE: By Natalie Paris

SECTION: TRAVEL

LENGTH: 676 words


"It's been a very difficult few months," said Nigel Vere Nicoll, CEO of the
African Travel & Tourism Association (Atta), "but not one tourist has been hurt,
so we cannot give in to this climate of fear that Al Shabaab are trying to
spread."

Lamu Island, where tourism is a key source of income for thousands of people, is
braced for a fallout after massacres last week in and around Mpeketoni - about
20 miles from the island.

"I don't think we're going to have any tourists here anymore," Ziwa Abdallah
Mohamed, who has worked as a tour guide on Lamu Island since the early 1970s, a
time when it was a hippy destination, told the AFP news agency. "It's totally
dead."

The large hotels and high-end villas in the island's Shela village, famed for
its vast beach, are almost all empty until at least August, according to the AFP
report.

In one major hotel, of nearly 30 reservations for July, only two have not
cancelled, and employees in some places have been asked to stay home "until
further notice."

Workers at the famous Peponi Hotel in Shela, open since 1967, were defiant
however, assuring that the seafront establishment would open on July 1, like it
does every year.

Mr Vere Nicoll, of Atta, said a Foreign Office ban on all but essential travel
to Mombasa Island - albeit excluding Diani or Moi international airports - has
affected numbers travelling to the coast.

Even though the airports are exempt from the ban, TUI, which owns Thomson and
First Choice, has cancelled all outbound flights to Mombasa - and therefore all
of its flights to Kenya - until October 31.

"We wanted to keep Mombasa Island as a hub open but then the Foreign Office's
advice covered the whole island," said Mr Vere Nicoll.

He said that exits from the airport use two roads that are currently impassable.

"So the effect meant that anyone flying into Mombasa could only get out in a
small plane. Diani has been hardest hit, it's been affected it very badly."

As it is low season in Kenya at the moment, he said it was hard to talk about
numbers, but acknowledged that reassuring visitors would be a hard task.

"People in Europe and the US don't appreciate the distances," he said. "In fact
we are talking about very small areas with non-essential travel warnings at the
moment."

Those running safaris in Kenya are more confident that they can ride out the
storm.

"This is a terrorist group that is hitting the coast and city centres," said
Chris McIntyre, managing director of Expert Africa, "both of which are fairly
accessible. It would be harder to hit remote camps in the bush and so I think
people recognise that safari areas are safer."

ABTA thought British tourists would not be unduly concerned. "ABTA's experience
is that British holidaymakers tend to take a realistic and measured attitude
when travelling overseas and they also trust the Foreign Office to make an
accurate assessment of risk," a spokesman said.

"The Foreign Office is advising against travel to specific parts of Kenya, there
are many other parts of the country that are popular with tourists where travel
advice remains unchanged.

"Undoubtedly high-profile and violent incidents throw an international spotlight
onto a country and may have an immediate negative impact on bookings, but if the
incidents are isolated and local authorities respond in a confident way, then
typically tourism tends to be resilient over the longer-term."

Travel Guides app
Download the free Telegraph Travel app, featuring expert guides to destinations
including Paris, Rome, New York, Venice and Amsterdam

Follow Telegraph Travel on Twitter
Follow Telegraph Travel on Facebook
Follow Telegraph Travel on Pinterest
Follow Telegraph Travel on FourSquare

LOAD-DATE: June 20, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTNS


                  Copyright 2014 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              161 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                       June 21, 2014 Saturday 9:30 AM GMT

Chinese police kill 13 'terrorists' after 'bomb attack' on police station;
At least thirteen 'mobsters' are gunned down and three police officers are
injured in the latest episode of deadly violence to hit the troubled western
province of Xinjiang

BYLINE: By Tom Phillips Shanghai

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 508 words


Chinese police gunned down 13 "terrorists" after they allegedly rammed a car
rigged with explosives into a police station in the restive western province of
Xinjiang.

The group - described variously as "rioters", "mobsters" or "terrorists" by
state media - struck on Saturday morning in Yecheng, a remote oasis city around
150 miles from China's border with Pakistan, according to initial reports.

The "mob" drove a vehicle into a police station and "set off bombs", the
People's Daily, the Communist Party's official mouthpiece, reported.

Three police officers were injured during the initial assault before armed
security forces opened fire on the assailants, according to reports in China's
official media that could not be immediately verified.

"The police took decisive action, shooting dead 13 rioters," reported Tianshan
Net, a website run by the provincial government.

Recent years have seen rising levels of violence take root in Xinjiang, a huge
swathe of northwest China that is home to a Turkic-speaking ethnic minority
called the Uighurs.

Yecheng, which is also known by its Uighur name, Kargilik, was the scene of
another deadly incident in February 2012 when seven assailants were gunned down
after using knives to kill 13 civilians.

Experts believe much of the violence is driven by the government's heavy-handed
treatment of Xinjiang's native Uighur population and the yawning social chasm
that has opened up between them and ethnic Han immigrants to the region.

However, in the last eight months Beijing has blamed a spate of "terror attacks"
outside Xinjiang on groups of Islamic extremists.

Those incidents - including indiscriminate knife and bomb attacks on crowded
train stations and a market - have prompted public outrage and a massive
nationwide security crackdown.

Armed security forces have been deployed in major cities including Beijing and
Shanghai while public trials of "terror suspects" have been held in Xinjiang.

Thirteen Uighurs were executed in Xinjiang this week after being found guilty of
terrorism-related offences including arson, bomb making and "ruthlessly"
murdering police officers and civilians.

Three of those executed had been convicted of leading a June 2013 attack on a
police station, a hotel and other government buildings in which 24 police
officers and civilians died.

Beijing increasingly describes such attacks as "terrorism" carried out by
religious extremists and separatists.

However, experts warn that the difficulty in getting impartial information out
of Xinjiang means it is almost impossible to determine the real motivations
behind such outbreaks of violence.

"We have too little information to establish fully what is going on with these
episodes of violence," said Gardner Bovingdon, an Indiana University expert on
Xinjiang.

"We can draw inferences but unfortunately we have a very large, and very
tendentious intermediator in the form of the Chinese government which is in the
business of sifting, blocking and sometimes even creating information in order
to tell a certain story."

LOAD-DATE: June 21, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTNS


                  Copyright 2014 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              162 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring Middle East - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                              June 23, 2014 Monday

Libyan Gen Haftar's forces retaliate to "terrorist" attacks in Binina

LENGTH: 107 words


A military source has confirmed that forces loyal to retired Maj-Gen Khalifah
Haftar have retaliated against Grad rocket attacks that hit civilian areas in
Binina and was targeting a nearby base of the elite Sa'iqah unit, Qatar-based,
pro-interim government Libya TV, also known as Libya al-Ahrar reported on 23
June.

Haftar's forces launched a bombardment, directed at strongholds held by the 17
February Brigade and Ansar al-Shari'ah in Benghazi's Al-Hawari, Al-Qawarishah
districts, the report added.

One civilian was killed and three injured during the bombardment, the report
said.

Source: Libya (Al-Ahrar) TV, Doha, in Arabic 1403 gmt 23 Jun 14

LOAD-DATE: June 23, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2014 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              163 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                          China Daily European Edition

                              June 23, 2014 Monday

Attacker tells CCTV he regrets terror assault

BYLINE: China Daily

SECTION: SOCIETY

LENGTH: 463 words


The surviving attacker in a brutal assault in Hotan prefecture, Xinjiang Uygur
autonomous region, has apologized and said he was lucky not to have been killed
like his two accomplices by the fierce resistance of the people they ambushed on
June 15.

Muer Zhati, who has a wound on his head, said in the Uygur language during a
China Central Television interview that he was motivated by other attackers and
thought he was engaged in jihad.

"They (conspirators) talked about 'jihad' and said we would skip Yawm al-Din
(judgment) and enter Jannah (heaven) directly after we fought and died for
jihad," he said.

"I was persuaded and did such thing (hacking people ). ... I am sorry, I want to
apologize for what I did. ... I just want to say sorry."

Though he appeared to be a devout Muslim, Zhati could not answer simple
questions about Muslim doctrine asked by the CCTV reporter, such as the exact
definition of jihad.

Police said most of the terrorism suspects in Xinjiang are influenced by
extremism and illegal religious activities.

On June 15, Zhati and the two other attackers broke into a venue in Hotan where
residents were playing mahjong. Security camera footage showed they talked with
each other for about 90 seconds before breaking into the room and attacking
people with axes and knives. Zhati was the second to attack the people inside
and he hacked the only female victim.

The three were soon subdued and captured by residents and police officers. Two
of the attackers died from their injuries. Four people were injured in the fight
with the attackers.

"I felt a little scared after people in the room fought back at us with tables
and chairs," Zhati said.

The attackers tried to escape, only to find the place was encircled by people
carrying different weapons. They tried to kill those blocking their way but
failed. Armed patrol officers arrived and brought the situation under control.
Zhati said he was lucky to be caught.

"I am still alive. If I could, by any chance, be released, I would never do such
thing again," he said. "I would take care of my parents."

The courageous fight the residents put up against the terrorists - after local
people recently subdued three suicide bombers carrying machetes, daggers and
explosive devices in Pishan - has injected new impetus into Xinjiang's fight to
eradicate the terrorist threat in the region.

In staunch support, the local government rewarded 300,000 yuan ($48,200) to the
people who overwhelmed the attackers in Hotan.

China launched a yearlong campaign against terrorism, with Xinjiang in the
center, after a terrorist attack on May 22 in an open market in the regional
capital Urumqi. Residents have been mobilized to contribute to the campaign by
reporting any suspected terrorist activities.

LOAD-DATE: June 23, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2014 China Daily Information Co
                              All Rights Reserved

                              164 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                        The Huddersfield Daily Examiner

                              June 23, 2014 Monday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

Man subjected to terror sex attack at knifepoint

BYLINE: Louise Cooper

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 346 words


A GANG told a man 'not to scream or they'd stab him' before subjecting him to a
vicious sex attack on a secluded track.

The 27-year-old victim was walking in Manchester Road towards Huddersfield town
centre when a car spun round and pulled up alongside him.

Three men got of the blacked-out Volkswagen Golf and flashed what is thought to
be a knife.

One of them ordered him off the main road and down a wooded track near Fountain
Grove, Milnsbridge, where the attack, described as a "serious sexual assault"
took place.

The terrifying ordeal took place at 11.30pm on Friday.

After the attack, which lasted between five and 10 minutes, the three men fled
back to their car.

The victim, who had been on his way to a friend's house, ran home and rang
police. He has since been interviewed by specially-trained officers.

The area was sealed off for most of Saturday with a police cordon to allow
forensic examinations to take place.

Det Insp Ian Thornes, of Hudders-field CID, said the attack was not believed to
have been random and appealed for information.

He said: "The victim was walking to a friend's house when he saw a Black VW Golf
with blacked out windows driven away from the town centre and spin round to stop
near him.

"All three males got out of the vehicle and have threatened him. He was then
subjected to a serious sexual assault.

"Enquiries are on-going and we are keen to stress this was not a random attack.

"We would urge anyone who saw a Black VW Golf parked on the side of Manchester
Road at this time to get in touch."

The suspects are described as three Asian men, all aged around 20-25 years old.
The first suspect was 6ft tall with a heavy, muscular build.

He was clean shaven, with short black hair and wore a white T-shirt, blue chinos
and possibly Nike trainers.

The second suspect was the same height and build and had short black hair. The
third suspect was 5ft 8in tall, of a similar build, and had a shaved head. He
was wearing a black long-sleeved shirt.

Anyone with information should contact Huddersfield CID on 101 or Crimestoppers,
anonymously, on 0800 555 111.

LOAD-DATE: June 23, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Police at the scene of the attack in Milnsbridge
A police officers at the sealed off area of the incident at Fountain Grove,
¦Manchester Road, Milnsbridge. Below, Detective Inspector Ian Thornes

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: HDE


                           Copyright 2014 MGN Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              165 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring Middle East - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                             June 24, 2014 Tuesday

Saudi court hands down three death sentences to "terrorists" plotting attack

LENGTH: 197 words


Text of report in English by Saudi newspaper Saudi Gazette website on 24 June

[Report by Ibrahim Alawi: "Death for Three Planning Attacks on Jedda Banks"]

The Special Criminal Court in Jedda on Monday [23 June] sentenced to death three
terrorists and awarded 14-year jail term to a fourth one. The convicts belonged
to a terrorist cell that planned to carry out attacks on banks in Jedda.

The charges against the convicts included joining Al-Qa'idah, setting up of a
terrorist cell with plans to carry out attacks on local banks and then travel to
Afghanistan to take part in fighting in defiance of the rulers, and taking part
in training camps of Al-Qa'idah.

They were also accused of involvement in recruiting militants to carry out
terror attacks in Jedda and plan to rob a bank in the city to raise money for
terror acts.

The charges also included robbing of a limousine at gun point to use it for a
bank robbery but the attempt was failed due to engine failure at the last
minute. The convicts had also planned to blow up some banks in the city in
addition to their plans to carry out terror attacks in Lebanon and Yemen.

Source: Saudi Gazette website, Jedda, in English 24 Jun 14

LOAD-DATE: June 24, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2014 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              166 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                       June 24, 2014 Tuesday 4:21 PM GMT

Gen Sir Peter Wall: Britain may need its Army 'sooner than some would have us
think';
Gen Sir Peter Wall, Chief of the General Staff, said Britain faces threats from
ballistic missiles, cyber attack and terrorism

BYLINE: By Ben Farmer Defence Correspondent

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 533 words


Britain may have to undertake military operations sooner than people think
because of the rapidly changing security situation around the world, the head of
the Army said.

Gen Sir Peter Wall said Britain now faced a growing range of threats, from
attack by ballistic missiles, to terrorism and cyber warfare.

The Chief of the General Staff also repeated warnings that any further defence
cuts after the 2015 election would endanger the Army's new slimmed down
structure.

Sir Peter told the Royal United Services Institute (RUSI) that: "We must pay
special attention to understanding the rapidly shifting environment in which we
may well have to operate sooner than some would have us think."

There was currently little public appetite in the UK for foreign military
operations, "but that could soon change", he said.

"Demand remains low until it isn't. And we may not get as much warning of that
change as we would like," he said.

Sir Peter told RUSI's Land Warfare Conference in London that Britain faced a
growing array of threats, "including cyber, ballistic missile attack and
terrorism".

Events of the past few years including the Arab Spring and Ukraine crisis
"continue to underline our inability to predict with any accuracy at all the
likely demands on our defence forces".

He said he had not foreseen "the prospect of state on state confrontation" in
Europe, and tensions with Russia over the annexation of Crimea had put European
security "firmly back on the agenda".

Ukraine crisis had become a "complex form of confrontation" waged with cyber
warfare, organised crime, subversion, propaganda, disinformation and economic
threats.

Sir Peter also warned ministers that any further cuts to defence spending would
jeopardise the Army's reforms.

The Army has had to shed 20,000 regulars after the 2010 cost-cutting defence
review, but Army chiefs fear the Treasury will make deeper cuts after next
year's election.

Sir Peter said the Army needed "all of our current resource allocation" to
deliver an Army "properly equipped and trained to be effective in supporting the
nation's interests".

He singled out equipment budgets for protection saying any cuts are "likely to
lead to an unbalanced force".

Sir Peter spoke a day after the former chief of the defence staff, General Lord
Richards of Herstmonceux, warned the Armed Forces need extra resources to deal
with the global threat of jihadists.

Lord Richards warned that militant jihadism was the "biggest threat confronting
the free world", and questioned Britain's ability to combat it.

He called for defence spending to increase as the economy rebounds and said
beleaguered plans to offset the loss of regular troops with part-time reserves
must work soon or be scrapped altogether.

Sir Peter said the Army reforms were complicated and had "plenty of risk".

He also predicted that the Army would increasingly be called on to help out in
domestic crises.

"Homeland operations are growing and the Land Forces command and control model
and regional networks have been well tested by floods, potential fuel tanker
driver strikes, and striking firemen," he said.

LOAD-DATE: June 25, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTNS


                  Copyright 2014 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              167 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                       BBC Monitoring Trans Caucasus Unit
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                            June 25, 2014 Wednesday

Three officers killed in Iranian western province "terrorist attack" - official

LENGTH: 133 words


The head of the security office at Kermanshah Governor-General's Office,
Shahriyar Heydari, has said that three police officers have been killed in
Salas-e Babajani County in a "terrorist attack", Fars news agency reported on 25
June.

"Last night [24 June], during a terrorist attack in Salas-e Babajani County,
three law enforcement officers were martyred," Heydari told the news agency.

According to him, the officers were patrolling near the village of Tazehabad in
Gilangharb County when they were shot.

He added: "In this terrorist act which was possibly carried out by the thugs
remaining from terrorist groups, the commander of the police station near
Tazehabad, his deputy and one officer from the police station were killed."

Source: Fars News Agency website, Tehran, in Persian 0525gmt 25 Jun 14

LOAD-DATE: June 25, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2014 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              168 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                 BBC Monitoring Former Soviet Union - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                            June 25, 2014 Wednesday

Russia condemns recent "terrorist attacks" in Syria

LENGTH: 218 words


Text of "Comment by the Information and Press Department of the Russian Ministry
of Foreign Affairs regarding terrorist attacks near Hama and Homs" published in
English on the Russian Ministry of Foreign Affairs website on 24 June

According to the messages of the Syrian information agency SANA, 35 people were
killed and over 50 were injured as a result of a terrorist attack using a mined
car on 19 June in Al-Hurra village in the suburbs of the provincial centre of
Hama. Before that, there was a terrorist attack, which took the lives of eight
people, in one of Homs suburbs - Nazha near a local school. About 40 civilians
were hurt.

We express our condolences to the families of the dead, and wish a speedy
recovery to the injured.

We decisively condemn any manifestations of terrorist activities, including the
never-ending sorties of extremists against peaceful civilians in Syria and its
neighbour Iraq.

The tragic events in Hama and Homs raise doubts regarding an early renewal of
the efforts to settle the political settlement in Syria and the need for joint
actions in the fight against the terrorist groups in its territory, which are
the main obstacle blocking the way to normalization of the situation in this
country.

20 June 2014

Source: Ministry of Foreign Affairs website, Moscow, in English 24 Jun 14

LOAD-DATE: June 25, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2014 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              169 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                          Future News - Media Planner

                            June 25, 2014 Wednesday

1st anniversary of Nairobi terror attack and siege on Westgate Mall

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 74 words


1st anniversary of terror attack on Nairobi's Westgate Mall that killed 67
people. The Somali Islamic extremist group al-Shabab claimed responsibility for
the four-day mall siege and said it was in retaliation for Kenya's deployment of
troops in southern Somalia. Mohamed Ahmed Abdi, Liban Abdullah Omar, Hussein
Hassan Mustafah, and Adan Dheq were all charged in connection with the incident

Event Start Date: 2014-09-21

Event End Date: 2014-09-21

LOAD-DATE: June 25, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                             Copyright 2014 Precise
                              All Rights Reserved

                              170 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                               Independent.co.uk

                      June 25, 2014 Wednesday 11:31 AM GMT

Wimbledon 2014: Tennis fans banned from bringing Thermos flasks to tournament
'over fears of terror attack';
'Disaster' for tea-loving spectators - who will now have to pay £2.10 a cup

BYLINE: Adam Withnall

SECTION: FRONTPAGE

LENGTH: 368 words


Tennis fans hoping to enjoy the quintessentially British experience of drinking
tea at Wimbledon have been warned not to try and bring in Thermos flasks - for
"security reasons".

Thousands of people bring their own hot drinks to the tournament every year
because those sold inside the All England Club are prohibitively expensive -
£2.10 for a cup of tea and £2.30 for a coffee.

But spectators this year are being prevented from bringing flasks into the
grounds by G4S guards at the gates, with angry fans reporting that they had to
choose between paying £5 for left luggage facilities or watch them being thrown
away.

One guard reportedly told a would-be flask-bearer that the rules, first brought
in last year, were now being rigorously enforced in the wake of the Boston
Marathon bombings that killed three and injured 176.

Those attacks, on 15 April, saw a pressure cooker used as an explosive device,
and it has been claimed that vacuum flasks could potentially be used to similar
effect.

Guards also reportedly said the flasks could be used as "weapons" or thrown at
players - though there are no rules preventing fans bringing in bottles of wine,
full cans or hard plastic water bottles. The best pictures from Wimbledon 2014

The clampdown has led to outrage among spectators, with the author Caroline
Fiennes telling the Telegraph she had been made to check her flask in at the car
park.

She described it as a "disaster" and said she had "always thought it rather
delightful that one can take in food and drink, adding: "Of course Brits want to
bring tea."

A tweet on the tournament's Twitter account told people planning a trip to SW19
to check the list of prohibited items, which includes coolboxes and camping
chairs, adding: "Don't bring a Thermos."

And a Wimbledon official said: "Thermos flasks are banned for security reasons.
They are big and bulky and they are hard-sided. This is not new."

Spectators are allowed to bring alcohol into the venue but it is "limited to the
equivalent of one bottle of wine or two 500ml cans of beer per person".

There are 300,000 cups of tea and coffee consumed during Wimbledon fortnight,
according to the Grand Slam's website - presumably costing fans more than
£600,000.

LOAD-DATE: June 25, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBI


           Copyright 2014 Independent Digital News and Media Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              171 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                               Independent.co.uk

                      June 25, 2014 Wednesday 11:20 AM GMT

Wimbledon 2014: Tennis fans banned from bringing Thermos flasks to tournament
over fears of terror attack;
'Disaster' for tea-loving spectators - who will now have to pay £2.10 a cup

BYLINE: Adam Withnall

SECTION: FRONTPAGE

LENGTH: 368 words


Tennis fans hoping to enjoy the quintessentially British experience of drinking
tea at Wimbledon have been warned not to try and bring in Thermos flasks - for
"security reasons".

Thousands of people bring their own hot drinks to the tournament every year
because those sold inside the All England Club are prohibitively expensive -
£2.10 for a cup of tea and £2.30 for a coffee.

But spectators this year are being prevented from bringing flasks into the
grounds by G4S guards at the gates, with angry fans reporting that they had to
choose between paying £5 for left luggage facilities or watch them being thrown
away.

One guard reportedly told a would-be flask-bearer that the rules, first brought
in last year, were now being rigorously enforced in the wake of the Boston
Marathon bombings that killed three and injured 176.

Those attacks, on 15 April, saw a pressure cooker used as an explosive device,
and it has been claimed that vacuum flasks could potentially be used to similar
effect.

Guards also reportedly said the flasks could be used as "weapons" or thrown at
players - though there are no rules preventing fans bringing in bottles of wine,
full cans or hard plastic water bottles. The best pictures from Wimbledon 2014

The clampdown has led to outrage among spectators, with the author Caroline
Fiennes telling the Telegraph she had been made to check her flask in at the car
park.

She described it as a "disaster" and said she had "always thought it rather
delightful that one can take in food and drink, adding: "Of course Brits want to
bring tea."

A tweet on the tournament's Twitter account told people planning a trip to SW19
to check the list of prohibited items, which includes coolboxes and camping
chairs, adding: "Don't bring a thermos."

And a Wimbledon official said: "Thermos flasks are banned for security reasons.
They are big and bulky and they are hard-sided. This is not new."

Spectators are allowed to bring alcohol into the venue but it is "limited to the
equivalent of one bottle of wine or two 500ml cans of beer per person".

There are 300,000 cups of tea and coffee consumed during Wimbledon fortnight,
according to the Grand Slam's website - presumably costing fans more than
£600,000.

LOAD-DATE: June 25, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBI


           Copyright 2014 Independent Digital News and Media Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              172 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                   MailOnline

                      June 25, 2014 Wednesday 8:57 PM GMT

Dick Cheney predicts US will suffer a terrorist attack 'far deadlier' than 9/11
before the decade is over

BYLINE: DAVID MCCORMACK

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 1083 words



     ·    Former vice president believes a terrorist attack even worse than what
          happened on September 11, 2001 is probable before the end of the
          decade
     ·    'You can just imagine what would happen if somebody could smuggle a
          nuclear device and drive it down the beltway outside Washington D.C.'
     ·    Cheney and his daughter Liz last week announced the launch of The
          Alliance for a Strong America
     ·    They've promised to keep 'policies necessary to protect the nation' in
          the spotlight
     ·    In a recent scathing op-ed, they slammed the Obama administration for
          its handling of the jihadi uprising in Iraq


Former vice president Dick Cheney believes that a terrorist attack even worse
than the destruction of the twin towers on September 11, 2001 is probable before
the end of the decade.

Cheney appeared on Hugh Hewitt's radio show on Tuesday and was asked if he
thought the United States would 'get through this decade without another massive
attack on the homeland.'

'I doubt it,' Cheney said. 'I think there will be another attack and the next
time I think it's likely to be far deadlier than the last one. You can just
imagine what would happen if somebody could smuggle a nuclear device, put it in
a shipping container, and drive it down the beltway outside Washington D.C.'

Scroll down for video

Hewitt wondered if the government could continue in such a scenario and Cheney
recalled a Cold War era plan for constitutional government in the event of a
nuclear attack.

'Basically, it involved having a government in waiting if you will ready to go
in the event of  nuclear attack on the United States so that we could always
maintain the constitutional-based governmental authority,' he explained.

'We operated and actually trained under circumstances of how would we go about
providing for a government to survive if we were having nuclear weapons from the
Soviet Union falling all over the country.'

Cheney and his daughter Liz last week announced the launch of The Alliance for a
Strong America, which they've described as a 'grassroots organization that will
advocate for a restoration of American strength and power.'

Video: Dick Cheney predicts a terrorist attack 'far deadlier' than 9/11

The Cheneys have posted a video to YouTube about their organization, which the
video's description says will attack 'the dangerous policies of the Obama
Administration' and promises to keep 'policies necessary to protect the nation'
in the spotlight.

Concerning the current situation in Iraq, the Cheneys oppose the president's
plan for the uprising and are critical of his actions before the uprisings that
allowed the jihadi group Islamic State of Iraq and Syria (ISIS) to grow.

'Rarely has a U.S. president been so wrong about so much at the expense of so
many,' the Cheneys wrote in an op-ed for the Wall Street Journal last week.

'Too many times to count, Mr. Obama has told us he is "ending" the wars in Iraq
and Afghanistan-as though wishing made it so.

'His rhetoric has now come crashing into reality. Watching the black-clad ISIS
jihadists take territory once secured by American blood is final proof, if any
were needed, that America's enemies are not "decimated." They are emboldened and
on the march.'

The Cheneys contend that the uprising in Iraq is not just a threat to Iraqis,
but to Americans, as well, as the country could become a safe-haven for al Qaeda
and other terrorist groups that could carry out 9/11-style attacks on the U.S.
and its allies.

The Cheneys mention trips they've been on to the Middle East, where government
officials are confused as to what Obama has been doing in the region following
the wars in Irag and Afghanistan, and say that the president is abandoning the
few friends the U.S. has in the Arab world.

'In one Arab capital, a senior official pulled out a map of Syria and Iraq,' the
Cheneys write.

'Drawing an arc with his finger from Raqqa province in northern Syria to Anbar
province in western Iraq, he said, "They will control this territory. Al Qaeda
is building safe havens and training camps here. Don't the Americans care?"

'Our president doesn't seem to. Iraq is at risk of falling to a radical Islamic
terror group and Mr. Obama is talking climate change.

'Terrorists take control of more territory and resources than ever before in
history, and he goes golfing. He seems blithely unaware, or indifferent to the
fact, that a resurgent al Qaeda presents a clear and present danger to the
United States of America.'

After the Iraq War, the Cheneys say al Qaeda was nearly defeated in the country
thanks primarily to military efforts by the U.S. and its allies. Rather than
stay in the country and make sure the peace was preserved, Obama pulled the U.S.
out of the unfinished conflict, according to the Cheneys.

Mr. Obama had only to negotiate an agreement to leave behind some residual
American forces, training and intelligence capabilities to help secure the
peace. Instead, he abandoned Iraq and we are watching American defeat snatched
from the jaws of victory.

The Cheneys cite a Rand study that shows a 58 percent increase in the number of
Salafi-jihadists between 2010 and 2013. They say that 'in the face of this
threat, Mr. Obama is busy ushering America's adversaries into positions of power
in the Middle East.'

'First it was the Russians in Syria. Now, in a move that defies credulity, he
toys with the idea of ushering Iran into Iraq,' they write. 'Only a fool would
believe American policy in Iraq should be ceded to Iran, the world's largest
state sponsor of terror.'

They write that there is 'a dire need for American leadership around the world'
and that the president has failed our allies by abandoning conflicts before they
are actually over.

'It is time the president and his allies faced some hard truths: America remains
at war, and withdrawing troops from the field of battle while our enemies stay
in the fight does not "end" wars. Weakness and retreat are provocative. U.S.
withdrawal from the world is disastrous and puts our own security at risk,' the
Cheneys write.

They went on to quote former President - and conservative hero - Ronald Reagan.

In 1983, President Ronald Reagan said, "If history teaches anything, it teaches
that simple-minded appeasement or wishful thinking about our adversaries is
folly. It means the betrayal of our past, the squandering of our freedom."
President Obama is on track to securing his legacy as the man who betrayed our
past and squandered our freedom.

LOAD-DATE: June 25, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDM


                   Copyright 2014 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              173 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                 Alliance News

                      June 26, 2014 Thursday 06:35 AM GMT

Israeli minister in verbal attack: Abbas is a "mega-terrorist"

LENGTH: 149 words


Tel Aviv (Alliance News) - Israeli Economy Minister Naftali Bennett launched an
unusually strong verbal attack on Palestinian President Mahmoud Abbas on
Thursday, calling him a "mega-terrorist."

"Those who call the moderate president a peace-maker should look at the facts,
not the words, not what Abu Mazen (Abbas) says but what he does," said Bennett,
of the pro-settler Jewish Home party.

"A man who transfers, month after month, tens of millions of shekels to the
pockets of murderers is a mega-terrorist, who hasn't changed his way," he said
to Israeli Radio.

The Palestinian Authority pays monthly allowances to Palestinians jailed in
Israel for security-related offences.

Abbas supports the two-state solution and non-violence, and faces criticism at
home by hardliners for continuing to call for peace negotiations with Israel,
despite many Palestinians having lost faith in them.

Copyright dpa

LOAD-DATE: June 26, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication


                      Copyright 2014 Alliance News Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              174 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                         The Evening Standard (London)

                             June 26, 2014 Thursday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

Property crisis 'could hit response to terror attack'

BYLINE: Joe Murphy

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 299 words


LONDON'S ability to withstand a major terrorist attack is being undermined by
its housing crisis, Dame Tessa Jowell warned today.

So few police and emergency workers can afford to live in the capital there
could be a shortage of personnel to cope with a disaster like the July 7
bombings of 2005.

"The housing crisis isn't just a threat to economic growth or the life chances
of Londoners," the former Olympics minister told the Base London 2014 conference
at Guildhall. "It also has the potential to impact on whether London will be
able to cope in the instance of a major infrastructure failure, such as a power
outage, or terrorist attack."

Dame Tessa, who is tipped to run for mayor in 2016, was among a range of London
figures from planning, business and politics at the conference on strategic
challenges.

Others today included former mayor Ken Livingstone, would-be mayor and transport
expert Christian Wolmar, and Sir David King, the chairman of Future Cities
Catapult and a former Government Chief Scientific Adviser.

About half of Metropolitan police officers live outside London, said Dame Tessa,
and many "blue light" staff might find it difficult to enter the capital in a
major incident.

She argued that the shortage of affordable homes could also undermine London's
economic resilience. Four in 10 businesses already said housing costs were
affecting their ability to recruit staff. "While London is ranked top of the
business capitals of Europe, its status could quickly be challenged if the
delicate balance which leads to its reputation is undermined," she said.

But the capital's cultural strength would see it remain strong. "July 7 was one
of the worst attacks on London in living memory. But the resilience of Londoners
meant that we saw not a single attack on a Muslim," she said.

LOAD-DATE: June 26, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Warnings: Dame Tessa Jowell

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: EST


                    Copyright 2014 Evening Standard Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              175 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                       June 26, 2014 Thursday 4:17 PM GMT

Pakistani charity is a terror front which attacked Indian consulate, says US;
Jamat ud Dawa, one of Pakistan's largest education and health charities, is part
of the terror group which carried out the 2008 Mumbai terror attacks and
attacked an Indian consulate in Afghanistan last month, according to the U.S
government

BYLINE: By Dean Nelson in New Delhi and Rob Crilly in Islamabad

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 561 words


The United States government has identified an Islamic charity as a front for
one of the world's largest terrorist groups and accused it of carrying out an
attack on an Indian consulate in Afghanistan last month.

According to US State Department officials the group, Jamaat ud Dawa, is an
alias of the Lashkar e Taiba, the Kashmir-focused terror group which is believed
to have carried out the 2008 Mumbai attacks in which ten suicide commandos
killed more than 150 people in a three day massacre.

It has imposed sanctions on the JuD and its leaders in a move which will cause
embarrassment in Pakistan where the group is well-supported for its free schools
and hospitals for the poor. It is also respected for disaster relief during
floods and earthquakes in recent years.

Washington believes the Lashkar e Taiba/Jamaat ud Dawa is supported by the
Pakistan army and ISI intelligence service as a proxy force for attacks on
Indian forces in Kashmir and its diplomats and aid workers in Afghanistan. In a
diplomatic cable disclosed by WikiLeaks, Pakistan's former ambassador to
Islamabad, Anne Patterson, said Pakistan would not abandon the group for any
amount of money. It has offered a $10 million (£5.9m) reward for information
leading to the arrest of Jamaat ud Dawa's leader Hafiz Saeed.

Its statement will strengthen India's hand ahead of proposed peace talks
following the recent meeting between Pakistan's prime minister Nawaz Sharif and
India's new prime minister, Narendra Modi. India has consistently warned
Pakistan there will not be any progress until it stops harbouring groups like
the LeT and convicts those who ordered the Mumbai attacks. It believes Hafiz
Saeed was one of the key figures behind the plot.

State Department spokeswoman Marie Harf said it had "credible information" that
the LeT was responsible for the attack on the Indian consulate in Heart last
month which was seen as an attempt by militants to sabotage planned talks
between the Indian and Pakistani prime ministers in New Delhi. "We have assessed
that LeT did perpetrate this attack", she said.

Vikram Sood, former head of India's Research and Analysis Wing intelligence
agency, said the US statement was not new to India but its release would put
more pressure on Pakistan's government. "We knew this is how it was but it is
embarrassing for the Pakistanis and leaves them more and more isolated", he
said.

The LeT and JuD are banned in Britain but it has supporters within the Pakistani
community who have sent money for its causes and operations. British
intelligence officials believe the group is bigger and potentially more
threatening than al-Qaeda but does not have the same global ambitions. Its
primary target is India.

Although Pakistan has repeatedly said it will crack down on JuD and has arrested
its leaders in the past, it said it cannot do so without evidence. "We are
taking action against terrorist organisations and if there was evidence against
JuD then we would like to see it", said a spokeswoman for its Ministry of
Foreign Affairs.

A senior JuD official said the US statement was counterproductive. "JuD has been
banned multiple time but it always helps us get more support in Pakistan", he
said.

In a response on its Twitter account, it said the "US allegations and its timing
is precisely due to 'strategic partnership' with India in Afghanistan against
Pakistan".

LOAD-DATE: June 27, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTNS


                  Copyright 2014 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              176 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring Middle East - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                              June 27, 2014 Friday

Tunisian authorities adopt measures to prevent `terrorist' attacks in Ramadan

LENGTH: 195 words


Text of report by Tunisian TV on 27 June

Interior Minister Lotfi Ben Jeddou has confirmed that preventive measures had
been taken in coordination with the forces of the army, the [National] Guard,
the police, and the [rapid] intervention units to protect and secure the country
during the month of Ramadan, particularly after the ministry had received
threats signalling the possibility of terrorist operations being carried out
during this month, as he said.

[Ben Jeddou, recording, in progress] [We have taken] preventive measures because
we have threats. These threats should not scare us. There are measures and there
have been daily meetings well ahead of the month of Ramadan between the army,
the guard, the police, and the intervention units to secure the country. These
are major preventive security measures which we should not reveal, but they are
there.

There are terrorist threats which we should not make great fuss about and we
should not belittle them either. There are there, especially now with the given
regional facts. There are threats and we would be lying in wait for them, God
willing.

Source: National Tunisian TV, Tunis, in Arabic 1900 gmt 27 Jun 14

LOAD-DATE: June 28, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2014 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              177 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                    Sky News

                       June 27, 2014 Friday 01:26 PM GMT

Muslim Academic 'Shackled' After Terror Attack

SECTION: BUSINESS

LENGTH: 247 words



HIGHLIGHT: A Muslim academic arrested in China for alleged separatism offences
has claimed he was shackled and denied food following a terrorist attack in
March.


  Ilham Tohti, a member of the Uighur ethnic group, was arrested in January and
held in a detention centre in the city of Urumqi in the Xinjian autonomous
region after he allegedly criticised the country's treatment of Uighurs.

Speaking through his lawyer, Mr Tohti said that after a terrorist attack on a
train station in Kunming in March which killed 29 people, he was given just one
and a half glasses of water to live on per day and refused halal food according
to his religion.

The Chinese government blamed extremist Uighur terrorists for the attack when
eight knife-wielding men and women stabbed passengers at random at Kunming train
station in Yunnan, a western province gripped by unrest.

His lawyer, Li Fangping, told Sky News his client denied the charge of
"separating the country".

He said: "His goal has always been to promote friendship and harmony between Han
Chinese (another Chinese ethnic group) and Uighur Muslims to achieve a better
autonomy of Xinjiang."

Mr Tohti's wife and two young sons are still living in Beijing, while his oldest
daughter is now studying in the US.

His lawyer denied rumours his client had received a secret trial.

Xinjiang's Uighurs believe their freedoms, culture and religion are being eroded
by authorities and are fighting for autonomy from the rest of the country.

Chinese authorities accuse them of having ties to Islamist terrorists abroad but
there has been little evidence provided to support the claim.

PHOTO:

Link to Image

LOAD-DATE: June 27, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication


                              Copyright 2014 BSkyB
                              All Rights Reserved

                              178 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                 thetimes.co.uk

                       June 27, 2014 Friday 12:01 AM GMT

Governor accused of planning Kenya terror attacks

BYLINE: Jerome Starkey, Africa Correspondent

SECTION: AFRICA

LENGTH: 447 words


The governor of Lamu county in Kenya, renowned as a tourist destination, has
been detained over allegations that he masterminded a series of gun and knife
attacks that left at least 65 people dead.

Issa Timamy did not enter a plea when he appeared in court yesterday, but his
lawyers insisted that his arrest was politically motivated.

The Somali-based militants al-Shabaab claimed responsibility for at least one of
the attacks, in which masked gunmen stormed the mainland town of Mpeketoni ,
about 20km (12 miles) from the Lamu peninsula. Eyewitnesses said the attackers,
who shot only adult men, had been speaking in a mixture of Swahili and Somali,
and that they flew the black flag of al-Shabaab.

Survivors said that the attackers asked their victims to recite a verse from the
Koran and shot anyone who failed. They also torched hotels, a bank, a petrol
station and overran the police station.

President Kenyatta said it was "well-planned . . . ethnic violence" against his
fellow Kikuyu tribesmen, who constituted the majority of the victims. He
insisted it was not an al-Shabaab attack, but planned by "local political
networks" to evict "a Kenyan community".

Prosecutors asked Judge Martin Muya to detain Mr Timamy for two weeks while they
investigate the Mpeketoni raid and two other smaller attacks nearby. Alexander
Muteti, for the prosecution, said Mr Timamy would prejudice a complex
investigation and could intimidate witnesses if he was released.

A team of defence lawyers insisted Mr Timamy had been held on the basis of
"rumours and hearsay". They challenged the prosecution to produce concrete
evidence and asked why, if the government had intelligence reports that the
attacks were being planned, it did not do anything to stop them.

Judge Muya ordered Mr Timamy to be remanded in Mombasa until Monday. Police said
the case had been transferred to the port city because Mr Timamy enjoyed
"massive support" from constituents in Lamu who might disrupt court proceedings.

The decision triggered outrage among the governor's supporters in the United
Democratic Front, who said his arrest was a breach of the constitution.

His lawyers said he deserved bail so he could to fulfil his democratic mandate
and serve the people of Lamu, just as President Kenyatta was granted bail by the
International Criminal Court, where he is accused of crimes against humanity
over post-election violence in 2008 that left 1,100 people dead.

Police arrested 13 other people yesterday on suspicion of plotting attacks.

Britain warned tourists to avoid Mombasa, and beaches from Tiwi to Mtwapa,
because of the risk of terrorist attacks, but Lamu and Mpeketoni are still
classified as safe to visit.

LOAD-DATE: June 27, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBTTO


                     Copyright 2014 News International Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                              179 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                          The Guardian - Final Edition

                             June 28, 2014 Saturday

Saturday: In search of Samantha: How did an Aylesbury schoolgirl end up on the
run from Interpol after being linked to a series of terror attacks? As attention
turns to Britons fighting with Isis in Syria, whatever happened to the young
woman known as 'the white widow'?

BYLINE: Zoe Williams

SECTION: GUARDIAN SATURDAY COMMENT PAGES; Pg. 34

LENGTH: 2033 words


What radicalises a person from the UK? What makes anyone leave the certainties
of Cardiff for the privations of Syria? How could any extremist preacher guess
that Buckinghamshire would be fertile ground, not just for disaffected youth,
but for disaffected youth with an undiscovered sense of purpose?

As terrorism experts pore over the videos released by Isis, and the education
secretary fights with the home secretary about whose job it was to "drain the
swamp", the film-maker Adam Wishart has undertaken a detailed analysis not of
context but of character: that of Samantha Lewthwaite, known as the "white
widow", once married to the 7/7 bomber Germaine Lindsay, now on the run from an
arrest warrant in Kenya and an Interpol red notice, for suspected possession of
explosives and alleged membership of al-Shabaab.

What he discovers is a person simultaneously bizarre and mundane, affected yet
artless. Wishart says: "I'm always struck by how banal it all is. All that
narrative of terrorism is about hate preachers who brainwashed X. I think it's
much simpler than that. She is in this extreme place now. If you follow every
step she took, they almost all make sense. If I think about my own life, if I
had altered the trajectory of each decision I'd made over 20 years, then I too
would be in a very different place. The one step she made that doesn't make
sense was when she began to believe that violence is the right course."

It would be impossible to try to situate Lewthwaite within a movement, however
ardently she would wish it. She wears her radicalisation so proudly, but it sits
strange and ersatz upon her, like she bought it in Claire's Accessories. When
Lindsay killed 26 people and himself, on 7 July 2005, Lewthwaite was seven
months' pregnant with their second child; their first, a son, was 14 months old.
For a while, she condemned his attack, notably in an interview with the Sun, but
by 2008, in her search for a new husband, she was expressly looking for a
jihadist - and found one. His identity is disputed but he's known to be a
Kenyan, father of her third and fourth children. He is since thought to have
died while on a terrorist mission, and latest reports suggest Lewthwaite may
have made a third match. "Allah," she wrote, in notes seized by Kenyan police in
2011, "blessed me with the best husband for me. In fact, exactly what I asked
for when I made du'a before marriage. I asked for a man that would go forth,
give all he could for Allah and live a life of terrorising the disbelievers as
they have us."

She had her third child in 2009 in Stoke Mandeville hospital in Aylesbury. Two
years later - after having had a fourth child in Johannesburg - she turned up in
Mombasa but had to leave in a hurry after she was tracked down by police. When
officers arrived at her house they found a fake passport, a copy of Heat (the
film) and about 60 pages that they took to calling her diary, even though part
of it she clearly intends as a book: "I have for many years now wanted to write
something that would benefit my brothers and sisters."

Once, her conversion was the fascinating thing about her. Even though friends
from her childhood and early adulthood won't talk about her, the story emerges
rather straightforwardly: a patchwork of teenage disappointment in her parents'
divorce, an intense friendship with a Muslim family across the road, maybe some
enthusiastic religious lessons. Wishart says: "It's not a simple brainwashing.
She met this girl, she liked her family, she converted. The Muslim community in
Aylesbury wouldn't say that radicalisation came from here, but the radical
preachers of London knew that people were travelling weekly from Aylesbury.

"Somebody probably introduced her to Germaine Lindsay, and they probably, I
don't know, pushed each other harder until he blew up a train. It's a trajectory
that is on the one hand explainable, even banal. You meet someone, you get
influenced by their ideas, and it takes you further. Yet on the other, at the
point he decided to blow up a train, and kill commuters, it is completely
unfathomable."

From this point on, especially after she left the UK, she became more than a
curiosity; she was mythologised. The arrest warrant, the florid accounts of her
possible involvement in terrorist attacks from a 2012 grenade attack in Mombasa
to the Westgate massacre in Nairobi the next year - she is frequently described,
albeit mostly by British tabloids, as at the top of the command structure.

Experts in jihadi terrorism are cautious about this idea. Dr Nelly Lahoud, of
the Combating Terrorism Center at the US military academy, describes in fine
detail the tensions of Lewthwaite's likely place in al-Shabaab, or any similar
organisation. "I have a question mark over whether she is the operative that
everybody is making her out to be." So-called "defensive Jihad", which is the
theological code under which all these stateless organisations fight, explicitly
frees everyone from normal authority - child from parent, wife from husband,
slave from master, debtor from creditor - in order to fight.

Under this law, women could and should fight alongside men. And yet, since
jihadists find support among people who are socially conservative, this would be
unthinkable, not least because it would involve a woman travelling or fighting
with a man who wasn't mahram (a male relative). Lahoud goes on: "So, for
example, Ayman al-Zawahiri (leader of al-Qaida) always describes how he took the
news of the death of his family, when the US invaded Afghanistan: when the
compound was bombed, people rushed to help and a woman's hand came out. A man
approached, and she put her hand back in. That was his wife. He responded that
'you lived with modesty and you died with modesty'. This was a source of pride,
that she preferred to die rather than be saved by someone who was not mahram."

This doesn't mean necessarily that the "white widow" would have no place in the
command structure: "Although ideologues are very clear, they do not wish to have
women fighting on the battlefield. They still believe that women have a critical
role to promote the cause of jihad." And that role is not just as helpmeet, but
also propagandist, morale raiser, the mother raising her children with the love
of jihad. This crops up constantly in Lewthwaite's notes. "Recently, my husband
gave a talk to my eight-year-old son and my five-year-old daughter. What do you
want to be when you are older? Both had many answers, but both agreed to one of
wanting to be a Mujahid. He asked them, how did they plan to achieve such a
goal, and what really is a Mujahid?. . . It was my husband's talk to the kids
that made it clear it was time to put pen to paper."

Her writings slip between an affected, homily style, the stilted syntax of
someone pretending their mother tongue is a second language, and the casual
platitudes of a Facebook update. It often feels like a quest for nothing more
than a believable domesticity: "When a man comes home - wife beautiful, food
prepared, kids clean - immediately he will forget the pain of his day, he will
always want to come home. When the wife would hear her hubby, she would take his
coat and shoes, feed him."

She starts to make notes on the "Search for Salvation", but it peters out and
runs into shopping lists and web addresses for furniture, a to-do list that
ends, "make drinks, look fabulous, sexcee". Lahoud notes that "there's a lot of
emphasis on support and welfare - she wants her kids to give gifts to the poor".
Lewthwaite concocts a parable about her family travelling to an orphanage during
Ramadan, where her daughter gives out toys and makes friends, while she thrills
to the gratitude. It sounds phoney and sad, as if all she wanted was a marriage
and a life from the olden days, and it was more realistic to find it in a
terrorist cell than to try to make it happen in Aylesbury.&#8233;"It's clearly
related to her identity," Wishart says of her conversion, even (especially?) at
its earliest point. "I made a film about animal rights extremists once, and one
thing that was clear was that once they'd got into this world, they couldn't get
out. Obviously, they have just crossed the road. But the ideas of animal rights
had become so entwined with their identity that they couldn't disentangle.
There's more than that here - Samantha got lots of acclaim, interest and
excitement that she would probably never have got otherwise."

Alexander Meleagrou-Hitchens, head of research at the International Centre for
the Study of Radicalisation, explains how inexorable that trajectory can be for
the convert, from Aylesbury to east Africa. The real leap is to radicalise.
"Once they've bought into this idea that their primary duty is to fight in this
world, al-Shabaab can say: there are fronts in the West, you can launch an
attack there, but the more important front is where we are fighting to establish
Sharia law. Your number one duty is to make sure manmade law is no longer
running the show."

After the 7/7 bombings, within violent circles Lewthwaite's status would have
increased, while her place in mainstream society would have been for ever
tainted by Lindsay's actions, irrespective of whether she denied or celebrated
them. If she then married a radical jihadi, her status as the widow of a martyr
would extend to him in terror circles. There are witnesses to the fact that she
was having talks with radicals to discover if potential husbands were radical
enough for her to marry.

Wishart arrived in Nairobi the Sunday after the Westgate attacks on 21 September
last year. "I am pretty clear that she was never the mastermind of Westgate. And
she probably didn't have anything to do with it. At the time, they said she was
inside, and people saw a woman with a gun, which subsequently proved to be
bullshit. No woman was found. There were probably only four attackers. But you
know, she was on the front pages." And in this, she has the eternal appeal to
the media of the absent, silent woman - just the possibility of her involvement
turns the chaos of events into something like manageable current affairs,
especially since it cannot, at least within the news cycle, be disproven.

It's interesting to do a thought experiment about Westgate, with Lewthwaite
masterminding it and without. With her, it feels closer to home, more relevant,
a puzzle that might one day be solved. Without her, it feels wildly
unpredictable, further away but more dangerous. And perhaps this is the reason
she keeps cropping up in this guise as the mastermind, the ultimate bad guy; for
the semblance of order . . . never mind the ins and outs of this terror
organisation, at least we know the person at the top of it.

Usually, when nobody from the past will talk about a notorious wanted criminal,
it's because they were loners; scores of people will say they didn't know them
very well, nobody has any detail. In Lewthwaite's case, she had many friends,
none of whom wanted to talk, as Wishart describes: "It's not clear what she's
done. There's a real confusion about who she was, this best friend that they
had. And how could she have gone in these wily ways? And then they have this
doubt, which is, did they know her when Germaine was preparing 7/7? He killed
more than anybody else that day - I think there's a kind of guilt. I met a
friend on a doorstep, and the first thing she said was that she couldn't speak,
out of respect for the 7/7 victims. Could they have, in their interactions, done
anything that would have prevented the path she ended up taking? Some of them
seem to feel a level of uncertain and unjustified culpability."

Yet, despite them all clamming up, or possibly because of it, the film-maker
came away with a distinct view: "My impression of her as a teenager was that she
was a kind of bolshy girl. People certainly knew who she was in the class. My
impression also was that people liked her. They really liked her."

The White Widow: Searching for Samantha, is on 2 July on BBC1, 10.35pm

Captions:

Pages from notebooks found by police in Lewthwaite's home in Mombasa

Samantha Lewthwaite, main, and as a schoolgirl, top; above, with 7/7 bomber
Germaine Lindsay and their child

LOAD-DATE: June 28, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2014 Guardian Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              180 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                  Wigan Today

                             June 28, 2014 Saturday

Double baseball bat attack terror

LENGTH: 222  words


POLICE are hunting baseball bat-wielding thugs who went on a violent rampage.

Three men were beaten with the weapons and a house was vandalised after the gang
burst into two addresses in the same Wigan street.

Police today appealed for information about the aggravated burglaries which took
place early on Sunday June 22 in Hampden Place, Marsh Green.

The first took place at around 6.15am. The three men, wearing balaclavas, forced
their way into a house and assaulted the man who lives there with the bats
before leaving.

Moments later the same trio broke into another address down the street and used
the bats both to attack two men there and smash the victims' television.

Details of injuries have not been disclosed but are not thought to be
life-threatening.

Since the incident, a man has been arrested on suspicion of aggravated burglary
and bailed pending further inquiries.

One of the raiders is described as around 6ft to 6ft 4ins tall and another was
said to be about 5ft 6ins tall.

Det Con Kath Andrews said: "This was obviously a targeted attack intended to
injure and intimidate the victims.

"These men used force to enter the addresses and then proceeded to use
potentially lethal weapons to leave these victims with injuries."

Anyone with information should call 0161 856 7124 or Crimestoppers anonymously
on 0800 555111.

LOAD-DATE: June 28, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: WWIG


                       Copyright 2014 Johnston Press Plc
                              All Rights Reserved

                              181 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                               Independent.co.uk

                       June 29, 2014 Sunday 11:18 AM GMT

Islamist leader seeks return to UK, after being banned in wake of 7/7 praise;
Omar Makri Muhammad, the Islamist leader who has publicly supported terrorist
attacks in the UK and elsewhere, says he is being tortured in Lebanon and is
attempting to return to the country despite being permanently excluded in 2005

BYLINE: Andrew Griffin

SECTION: FRONTPAGE

LENGTH: 336 words


The family of Omar Bakri Muhammad are asking for the militant Islamist leader to
be allowed to return to the UK, nearly ten years after he left the country for
Lebanon, where he has since been arrested multiple times and where he claims to
have been tortured.

Bakri's family says that he has been tortured during his time in a Lebanese
maximum security prison, though the claims have yet to be independently
verified. The family says that he is close to death.

Bakri was permanently excluded in 2005 on the grounds that he was not conducive
to the public good. The Home Office has said that because he is outside of the
country he will not be able to apply for asylum.

The preacher received political asylum in the UK in the 1980s and stayed until
2005. He left the UK soon after the 7/7 bombings in London in 2005, and fled to
Lebanon. But he was arrested in Beirut towards the end of May for allegedly
supporting terrorism.

Bakri has been accused of founding militant Islamist groups Hizb ut-Tahrir and
Al Muhajiroun, and of glorifying terrorists including those that perpetrated
9/11 and 7/7. He helped convert Michael Adebolajo, who took part in the murder
of Lee Rigby and was a member of Al-Muhajiroun.

 "This person has contributed in every aspect in supporting terrorism,"
Lebanon's interior minister, Nouhad Machnouk, alleged after the arrest.

Bakri has been considered by some to court publicity, a view that his son
Mohammad Bakri seemed to support.

"I think unless you know the character himself, like my father - I grew up with
him - so therefore I understand the tactics that he uses to attract the media in
order to pass the message of Islam," he told Sky News. "You may find that
distasteful, but at the end of the day he has not committed any crimes in the
UK."

He was previously sentenced to life in prison in Lebanon in 2010, but was
released after witnesses recanted their testimony. He is thought to have been
living in Tripoli in Lebanon for some of the time since, and has Syrian and
Lebanese citizenship.

LOAD-DATE: June 29, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBI


           Copyright 2014 Independent Digital News and Media Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              182 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                   MailOnline

                        June 29, 2014 Sunday 4:39 PM GMT

Philippines on alert for terror attack

BYLINE: ASSOCIATED PRESS

SECTION: AP

LENGTH: 134 words


MANILA, Philippines (AP) - The Philippine president is warning of a possible
terrorist attack in the south and say security has been beefed up in the
volatile region.

President Benigno Aquino III's spokesman says Aquino called Mayor Rodrigo
Duterte of the port city of Davao on Sunday to relay details of the threat and
call for heightened public vigilance.

Coloma did not release details of the threat, but a military intelligence
official told reporters that a Muslim rebel with links to the Indonesia-based
Jemaah Islamiyah militant network, Basit Usman, is believed to be planning to
attack Davao or two other southern cities with a car bomb and home-made
explosives.

The plot could be in retaliation for a recent government assault that killed two
of Usman's associates and led to the arrest of his wife.

LOAD-DATE: June 29, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDM


                   Copyright 2014 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              183 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                 thetimes.co.uk

                       June 29, 2014 Sunday 10:51 AM GMT

Consulate terror attack suspect pleads not guilty

BYLINE: Devika Bhat in Washington, Sonia Elks

SECTION: US & AMERICAS

LENGTH: 400 words


One of the suspected ringleaders of the 2012 terrorist attack on the US
consulate in Benghazi has pleaded not guilty to a terrorism charge at a US court
hearing.

Ahmed Abu Khattala was charged with conspiracy to provide material support to
terrorists resulting in death over the attack in Libya's second city, which took
place on the 11th anniversary of 9/11. Four Americans were killed, including the
ambassador, Chris Stevens.

The deaths triggered a storm of Republican anger towards President Obama and
Hillary Clinton, secretary of state at the time, amid criticism of the
administration's response to the attacks.

The Libyan militant appeared before a court in Washington hours after touching
down on US soil from a US Navy ship. A military helicopter transported him from
the vessel to the national capital.

His arrival comes two weeks after he was captured in Benghazi by American
special forces, an operation that is believed to have taken months of planning.

Abu Khattala appeared in court without shackles and wearing a grey hoodie for
the ten-minute hearing, in which he pleaded not guilty. The charge carries a
maximum penalty of life in prison.

Before his arrest, Abu Khattala had by all accounts been living freely in a
Benghazi suburb even though charges had been levelled against him in the US. A
Times journalist was able to interview him at his home over tea and biscuits,
triggering accusations that the Obama administration had sidelined the
investigation.

His arrival on American soil came amid a new row over how to ensure that he
faces justice for his alleged crimes, with Republicans calling for him to be
held and interrogated at Guantanamo Bay.

But President Obama, who has vowed to close the notorious US detention facility,
has long pledged to try terror suspects through the US criminal system.

Abu Khattala is accused of being a member of the Ansar al-Shariah group, a
powerful Islamic militia that the US believes was behind the attack.

He has previously admitted to being present during the assault, but has denied
being directly involved and insisted that he was trying to help to arrange the
rescue of trapped people.

The US Justice Department said that it intended to file more charges shortly.

Federal charges filed against Abu Khattala in July 2013 but kept under court
seal until this month also included killing a person on US property and a
firearms violation.

LOAD-DATE: June 29, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBTTO


                     Copyright 2014 News International Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                              184 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                 thetimes.co.uk

                       June 29, 2014 Sunday 12:11 AM GMT

Consulate terror attack suspect pleads not guilty

BYLINE: Devika Bhat in Washington and Sonia Elks

SECTION: US & AMERICAS

LENGTH: 406 words


One of the suspected ringleaders of the deadly 2012 terrorist attack on the US
consulate in Benghazi has pleaded not guilty to a terrorism charge at a US court
hearing.

Ahmed Abu Khattala was charged with conspiracy to provide material support to
terrorists resulting in death over the attack in Libya's second city, which took
place on the 11th anniversary of 9/11 and killed four Americans including the
ambassador Chris Stevens.

The deaths triggered a firestorm of Republican anger towards President Obama and
Hillary Clinton, the then Secretary of State, amid criticism of the
administration's response to the attacks.

The Libyan militant appeared before a court in Washington hours after touching
down on US soil from a US Navy ship, with a military helicopter transporting him
from the vessel to the nation's capital.

His arrival comes two weeks after he was captured in Benghazi by American
special forces, an operation that is believed to have taken months of planning.

Abu Khattala appeared in court without shackles and wearing a grey hoodie for
the ten minute court hearing in which he pleaded not guilty to the terror
charge, which carries a maximum penalty of life in prison.

Before his arrest, Abu Khattala had by all accounts been living freely in a
suburb of the city despite charges being levelled against him in the US. A Times
journalist was able to interview him at his home over tea and biscuits,
triggering accusations that the Obama administration had sidelined the
investigation.

The militant's arrival on American soil came amid a new row over how to ensure
he faces justice for his alleged crimes, with Republicans calling for him to be
held and interrogated at Guantanamo Bay.

But President Obama, who has vowed to close the notorious US detention facility,
has long pledged to try terror suspects through the US criminal system.

Abu Khattala is accused of being a member of the Ansar al-Shariah group, a
powerful Islamic militia that the US believes was behind the attack.

He has previously admitted to being present during the assault on the consulate,
but has denied being directly involved and insisted he was trying to help
arrange the rescue of trapped people.

The US Justice Department said that it intended to file additional charges
shortly.

Federal charges filed against Abu Khattala in July 2013 but kept under court
seal until this month also included killing a person on US property and a
firearms violation.

LOAD-DATE: June 29, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBTTO


                     Copyright 2014 News International Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                              185 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                       BBC Monitoring Europe - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                              June 30, 2014 Monday

Norwegian report: Foreigners returning to Algerian gas plant after terror attack

LENGTH: 600 words


Text of report by Norwegian newspaper Aftenposten on 28 June

[Report by Roar Ostgardsgjelten: "One-and-a-Half Years After the Terror Attack
in Algeria"]

The foreigners are returning to the gas plant In Amenas in Algeria almost
one-and-a-half years after the terror attack that killed 40 people.

It is a source in the Algerian oil company Sonatrach who says this to the news
agency Reuters.

"Of the employees who left the plant, 12 are already in place and more are
expected eventually," the source says without revealing to what nationality they
belong.

Are Demanding Better Security

Statoil [predominantly state-owned energy company] and the United Kingdom's BP,
which are operators of the gas field together with Sonatrach, have demanded
improvement of security before they send back workers.

In the terrorist attack in January 2013, 39 foreign oil workers and one Algerian
were killed. Among those killed were five Norwegian Statoil employees.

Seven Hundred Hostages

Armed Islamists took around 700 oil workers hostage in the attack and the siege,
which lasted four days. Algerian security forces then stormed the plant.

In Amenas produced around 11.5 per cent of Algeria's extractions of natural gas
before the attack.

Export to Europe

The North African state has since worked unceasingly to reopen the plant in
order to be able to increase gas exportation to Europe.

Algeria has heralded a new round of tenders later in 2014 and it hopes that more
foreign oil companies will show interest. The country wishes to boost stagnant
oil and gas production.

Statoil Is Waiting

After the attack at In Amenas, foreign investors have posed questions about
security in the Algerian oil and gas industry.

In 2013, Statoil reported that a number of the workers had returned to the
centre of operations at Hassi Messaoud, around 70 miles to the southeast in
Algeria - but the company made it clear that it would be some time before they
returned to In Amenas.

The Leader at Large?

The Islamists who attacked In Amenas probably belonged to the terrorist network
Al-Qa'idah in the Maghreb.

The militant terrorist Mokhtar Belmokhtar, famous for having only one eye,
appeared as leader of the group.

After the attack, he vanished.

In 2013, the authorities in the African country of Chad claimed that he had been
killed but French troops have dismissed this as "rumour."

More recently, there has been speculation about whether he is residing in Libya
and taking part in the civil war there, without there having been confirmation
of this.

[Sidebar]

Facts

On 16 January 2013, a group of armed Islamists launched an attack on the gas
plant at In Amenas, in the southeast of Algeria. They took around 700 workers
hostage, some 100 of them foreigners.

Statoil, BP and the Algerian oil company Sonatrach run the plant.

On 17 January, Algerian forces launched an operation to take back the plant.
When the operation was accomplished on 19 January, 29 of the hostage takers were
killed and three were arrested.

In the attack, 40 employees from a series of countries were killed, including
five of the 17 Statoil employees who were at the plant: Tore Bech, 58, Thomas
Snekkevik, 35, Hans M. Bjone, 55, Alf Vik, 43, and Victor Sneberg, 56.

The attackers belonged to a group under the leadership of the Algerian Islamist
Mokhtar Belmokhtar and were reputedly vengeance for the French military
operation in Mali. [sentence/paragraph as received]

According to Morten Boas, however, this is not very plausible, since the attack
was planned many months before the French intervention.

Source: NTB [news agency]

Source: Aftenposten, Oslo, in Norwegian 28 Jun 14

LOAD-DATE: June 30, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2014 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              186 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                    BBC Monitoring Asia Pacific - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                              June 30, 2014 Monday

China court indicts four over charges of terror attack at railway station

LENGTH: 143 words


Text of report in English by official Chinese news agency Xinhua (New China News
Agency)

Beijing, 30 June: Four people have been prosecuted for their involvement in a
terrorist attack at a railway station in Kunming on 1 March, China's top
Procuratorate announced on Monday [30 June].

The Kunming Municipal People's Procuratorate found that the suspects were
involved in organizing, leading or taking part in the terrorist attack as well
as intentional homicide, said a statement issued by the Supreme People's
Procuratorate.

A group of assailants armed with knives attacked civilians at the railway
station in the provincial capital of southwest China's Yunnan Province, causing
29 deaths and injuring another 143.

Police shot to death four of the attackers at the station and arrested four
others.

Source: Xinhua news agency, Beijing, in English 0821gmt 30 Jun 14

LOAD-DATE: June 30, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2014 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              187 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                       BBC Monitoring Europe - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                              June 30, 2014 Monday

Bulgaria "vulnerable" to terrorist attacks - experts

LENGTH: 131 words


Text of report in English by Bulgarian news agency website Novinite

Novinite.com Defence) -Bulgaria is vulnerable to potential terrorist attacks,
experts argued Friday.

Albena Drobachka, who manages a project n prevention of natural and social
disasters, said at an international conference more needs to done by Bulgarian
authorities to promote civic education and appropriate behaviour immediately
after a terror act has been committed, Dariknews.bg quoted her as saying.

The conference comes nearly two years after a
Israelis+on+Day+of+Buenos+Aires+Bombing" target="_blank">deadly terror attack
targeting Israelis at Sarafovo airport near Burgas which left five Israeli
tourists and a Bulgarian bus driver.

Source: Novinite.com website (www.novinite.com) in English 1307 gmt 27 Jun 14

LOAD-DATE: June 30, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2014 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              188 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                          China Daily European Edition

                              June 30, 2014 Monday

China prosecutes four for Kunming terrorist attack

SECTION: SOCIETY

LENGTH: 115 words


BEIJING - Four people have been prosecuted for their involvement in a terrorist
attack at a railway station in Kunming on March 1, China's top procuratorate
announced on Monday.

The Kunming Municipal People's Procuratorate found that the suspects were
involved in organizing, leading or taking part in the terrorist attack as well
as intentional homicide, said a statement issued by the Supreme People's
Procuratorate.

A group of assailants armed with knives attacked civilians at the railway
station in the provincial capital of Southwest China's Yunnan province, causing
29 deaths and injuring another 143.

Police shot to death four of the attackers at the station and arrested four
others.

LOAD-DATE: June 30, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2014 China Daily Information Co
                              All Rights Reserved

                              189 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                          China Daily European Edition

                              June 30, 2014 Monday

4 charged with terrorism in Kunming railway station attack

BYLINE: Zhang Yan and Cui Jia

SECTION: SOCIETY

LENGTH: 197 words


Four suspects, who allegedly planned, organized or took part in the Kunming
knife attack in Yunnan province, causing 29 deaths and injuring 143 people on
March 1, have been charged with being involved in a terrorist attack, the
Supreme People's Procuratorate said on Monday.

The SPP said on its website that the four suspects, who are all from the
Xinjiang Uygur autonomous region, are being prosecuted in Kunming City
Intermediate People's Court.

According to the Kunming People's Procuratorate, which filed the charges, three
of the suspects are accused of organizing or leading terrorist organizations or
intentional homicide, and the fourth is charged with taking part in the
terrorist organization and intentional homicide.

"The criminal facts are clear and the evidence is solid, and they will be
criminally held accountable according to the law," said a statement released by
the procuratorate.

On March 1, a group of knife-wielding assailants attacked civilians at a railway
station in Kunming, provincial capital of Yunnan province.

Police shot four of the attackers to death at the station, and the other four
were arrested and detained by police on March 3, authorities said.

LOAD-DATE: June 30, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2014 China Daily Information Co
                              All Rights Reserved

                              190 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                               Independent.co.uk

                       June 30, 2014 Monday 10:27 AM GMT

US to call for worldwide tightening of airport security measures over fears of
'new generation' of Syrian terror attacks;
Barack Obama issues warning about return of 'battle-hardened' European fighters

BYLINE: Adam Withnall

SECTION: FRONTPAGE

LENGTH: 591 words


The US has reportedly received intelligence that militant groups in the Middle
East are preparing a new generation of "creative" non-metallic explosives,
representing a challenge to existing airport security measures around the world.

As the militant group Isis declared the formation of an Islamic state and a "new
era of international jihad", ABC News reported that two other rebel factions
were believed to be preparing to target a US- or Europe-bound passenger jet.

The Obama administration is now reportedly considering a complete overhaul of
its system of security checks at the US's international airports - and may ask
its overseas partners to do the same.

ABC quoted one defence source as saying the threat, discussed at the White House
over the course of the past week by senior intelligence agencies, is "different
and more disturbing" than previous plots that have involved potentially using
explosives hidden in toothpaste, shoes and ink cartridges.

US officials were reported to have specific concerns about the
al-Qa'ida-affiliate group the Al Nusrah Front in Syria, which they said has now
teamed up with Yemen-based al-Qa'ida in the Arabian Peninsula - the group behind
the "underwear bomb" which failed to detonate in a plane over Detroit in 2009.

According to ABC, the Syrian threat was identified earlier this year and the
Department of Homeland Security, FBI and other agencies have been developing new
potential security measures for airports ever since. Those plans were now
believed to be in their final stages.

Speaking to ABC's This Week in an interview which also aired yesterday, Mr Obama
did not address the latest news on the potential bomb threat.

Read more:Isis changes name and declares a new Islamic stateRussian fighter jets
arrive to hold back Isis approachHelicopter gunships launch dawn air strikes on
Isis-held TikritSectarian hatred stalks Baghdad as Shia-Sunni gulf widensPatrick
Cockburn: Kerry's search for moderates is five years lateIsis execution site
where 160 killed identified by satellite images

But he did raise concerns that "battle-hardened" militants with European
passports represented a growing risk to US security.

On the rise of Sunni extremist groups across northern Syria and Iraq generally,
the President said: "They're gaining strength in some places.

"We've seen Europeans who are sympathetic to their cause travelling into Syria
and now may travel into Iraq, getting battle-hardened. Then they come back," he
said.

Mr Obama said that the US must improve surveillance, reconnaissance and
intelligence gathering to combat the risk, and that Special Forces troops would
have a role. He said military strikes against organisations that could harm the
US may also be used. In pictures: Iraq crisis

Congressman Peter King, a New York Republican and a member of the House Homeland
Security Committee, also interviewed on This Week, warned: "The terrorists in
Syria are extremely sophisticated, very advanced, and so thousands of people can
go back to Europe and come here."

Meanwhile, also in Washington yesterday, a spokesperson for the Obama
administration reacted to Isis's self-proclaimed "restoration of the caliphate"
by calling on the international community to unite in the face of the threat
posed by the Sunni extremists.

"Isis's strategy to develop a caliphate across the region has been clear for
some time now," State Department spokesperson Jen Psaki said. "That is why this
is a critical moment for the international community to stand together against
Isis and the advances it has made."

LOAD-DATE: June 30, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBI


           Copyright 2014 Independent Digital News and Media Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              191 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                  M2 PressWIRE

                              June 30, 2014 Monday

Ahmed Abu Khatallah Indicted for Terrorist Conspiracy Stemming from September
2012 Attack in Benghazi, Libya;
Defendant Makes Initial Court Appearance Today

LENGTH: 646 words


June 28, 2014

Ahmed Abu Khatallah, aka Ahmed Mukatallah, made his first appearance today in
the U.S. District Court for the District of Columbia on a federal terrorism
offense arising from his alleged participation in the Sept. 11 through 12, 2012,
terrorist attacks in Benghazi, Libya, which resulted in the deaths of Ambassador
J. Christopher Stevens, Sean Smith, Tyrone Woods and Glen Doherty.



Khatallah was indicted by a federal grand jury on the charge of conspiracy to
provide material support and resources to terrorists, knowing and intending that
these would be used in preparation for and in carrying out a killing in the
course of an attack on a federal facility, and the offense resulted in death.

The investigation is ongoing and the Justice Department can bring additional
charges as the case continues.

"Now that Ahmed Abu Khatallah has arrived in the United States, he will face the
full weight of our justice system," said U.S. Attorney General Eric Holder. "We
will prove, beyond a reasonable doubt, the defendant's alleged role in the
attack that killed four brave Americans in Benghazi."

"Capturing Ahmed Abu Khatallah and bringing him to the U.S. to face justice for
his role in killing American citizens in Benghazi is a major step forward in our
ongoing investigation," said FBI Director James B. Comey. "Our work, however, is
not over. This case remains one of our top priorities and we will continue to
pursue all others who participated in this brazen attack on our citizens and our
country."

"Ahmed Abu Khatallah's capture and his appearance in court today were critical
steps toward bringing him to justice for his role in the terrorist attacks on
our diplomatic facilities in Benghazi," said Assistant Attorney General for
National Security John Carlin. "We will not rest in our pursuit of the others
who attacked our facilities and killed the four courageous Americans who
perished that day."

"In a courtroom in our nation's capital, today we took the first step down the
road to justice for the four American heroes killed in Benghazi," said U.S.
Attorney Ronald C. Machen Jr. for the District of Columbia. "This prosecution is
a reflection of our determination to honor the sacrifice of U.S. citizens who
perish on foreign soil in service to our country. We will be steady, deliberate
and relentless in seeking to hold accountable all who were responsible for this
deadly act of terror."

"The capture and return to the United States of Ahmed Abu Khatallah should be a
warning to all those who want to harm the United States," said Assistant
Director in Charge of the FBI's New York Field Office George Venizelos. "As
alleged in the indictment, Khatallah participated in September 11-12, 2012,
terrorist attacks in Benghazi, Libya, which resulted in the deaths of four
innocent Americans. Now he is in the United States to stand trial for his
actions. The FBI will continue to pursue and bring to justice those who conduct
such heinous acts no matter where they are located."

Khatallah, a Libyan national approximately 43 years of age, was taken into
custody earlier this month. He initially was charged in a criminal complaint
that was filed under seal on July 15, 2013, and that became public on June 17,
2014. The Justice Department secured the defendant's initial indictment on June
26, 2014, and the charging document was unsealed today.

An indictment is merely a formal allegation that a defendant has committed a
violation of criminal laws and every defendant is presumed innocent until, and
unless, proven guilty.

The case is being investigated by the FBI New York Office's Joint Terrorism Task
Force with substantial assistance from various other government agencies. The
case is being prosecuted by the U.S. Attorney's Office for the District of
Columbia and the Counterterrorism Section of the Justice Department's National
Security Division.

LOAD-DATE: June 30, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newswire

JOURNAL-CODE: M2PW


                      Copyright 2014 Normans Media Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              192 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                  mirror.co.uk

                        June 30, 2014 Monday 9:48 PM GMT

ISIS declaration of Islamic Caliphate means all of Europe is now vulnerable to
terrorist attack;
Hayder al-Khoei, North Africa and Middle East expert, says the most violent of
jihadist groups has now gained legitimacy and prestige in the eyes of extremists

BYLINE: By Hayder al-Khoei

SECTION: NEWS,WORLD NEWS

LENGTH: 439 words


The Islamic State of Iraq and Syria, the most extremist and violent jihadist
group in the Middle East - too extreme even for Al-Qaeda - officially declared
the establishment of an Islamic Caliphate on Sunday.

The Caliphate has been the end goal for these jihadists for many years and this
formal declaration will be seen as the logical and natural outcome of their
struggle.

It will also add weight to their legitimacy and prestige for many extremists
across the world.

They will be able to pull more radicalised youth to their ranks who will believe
this is now the time to live out their dream of having an Islamic State in the
heart of the Middle East.

Up to to 3,000 Western jihadists have already gone to Syria and Iraq to fight
and that number will probably now increase.

Mother of third young Cardiff man in jihadist video begs him to return

The announcement is also an indication of just how confident they are. Whilst
declaring the establishment of the Caliphate they have also abrogated all other
jihadist groups where they operate.

They expect everyone - especially those armed groups - to pledge allegiance to
the so-called Caliph Ibrahim, Abu Bakr al-Baghdadi.

The so-called Islamic State relies on racketeering and Mafia-like activities for
much of their funding. They run extortion rackets, which in Iraq alone, brings
them millions of dollars every month.

And they control oilfields in Syria, which they then sell back to the Syrian
government through middlemen.

They also enjoy vast amounts of funding from private donors in the Gulf, such as
Saudi Arabia, Qatar and Kuwait.

It is this potent mixture of extremist ideology and a limitless supply of funds
that makes them so powerful.

With the recent territorial and military gains they've made in Iraq, they're now
a terrorist organisation that also resembles an army.

Governments throughout the Middle East will be terrified about what this means
for their own national security.

Whilst this threat will worry most countries, Lebanon and Jordan are
particularly fragile and could be engulfed in a wider war if the "Islamic State"
decides to expand further.

To maintain their prestige and relevance, it is likely they will also carry out
terrorist attacks in the style of 9/11 and 7/7.

British men appear in jihadi recruitment video

Britain is vulnerable because there are hundreds of British citizens who have
gone to Syria.

Many will be killed and will never return, but many others will come back and
they won't just have the extremist ideology that inclined them towards violence
in the first place, but this will be combined with battlefield experience.

All of Europe is vulnerable.

LOAD-DATE: September 1, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDMI


                      Copyright 2014 Trinity Mirror, Plc.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              193 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                  mirror.co.uk

                        June 30, 2014 Monday 8:33 PM GMT

Family feuds that ended up in lawsuits from Gallagher brothers and Samsung to
Macaulay Culkin;
The the son of a man killed in the 7/7 terrorist attacks was forced to sue his
own mother over the compensation he was awarded, we look at more families at war

BYLINE: By Melissa Thompson

SECTION: NEWS,UK NEWS

LENGTH: 856 words


When Adam Gray's father Richard died in the 7/7 terrorist attacks in 2005, he
was devastated.

But if losing one parent wasn't bad enough, he has now faced further heartache
after his mother squandered £50,000 compensation she was asked to look after for
him.

Northampton County Court heard she spent it on shopping sprees, luxury clothes,
top restaurants and redecorating her home and garden in Ipswich.

Now a court has ordered her to pay back £43,000 - but whether their relationship
can ever be reconciled remains to be seen - although judging by these other
cases, not all cases of relatives suing each other end badly:

 Macaulay's money mishandled

He was the ultimate Nineties movie child but Macaulay Culkin's successful career
as a child actor was marred by his parents Christopher Culkin and mum Patricia
Brentup, who mishandled the £25 million he was estimated to have earned by the
middle of the decade.

In 1998 the Home Alone star, now 33, successfully sued his parents and they were
sacked from managing their son, with the family accountant taking sole charge of
the fortune until Macaulay turned 18.Daughter's class action

US teen Rachel Canning sued her parents earlier this year for her tuition fees
after moving out alleging she was "subjected to severe verbal and physical abuse
by my mother and father".

The 18-year-old wanted parents Sean and Elizabeth to cover the cost of her last
term at her private Catholic school, as well as her university fees.

Her parents were upset at the claim and said she ran away after they disciplined
her for playing truant, and were desperate for her to come home.

In May the case was thrown out after the New Jersey Division of Child Protection
and Permanency found her allegations were "unfounded."Sons of Samsung founder in
battle over company

The chairman of Samsung Electronics Co was sued by his brother in a dispute over
8million shares in Samsung Life Insurance and 20 shares in Samsung Electronics
inherited from their father.

Korean Lee Maeng-Hee, 80, sued Lee Kun-Hee, 78, seeking £365 million after
accusing him of keeping the wealth following the death of their father, Lee
Byung-chull, who died in 1987 after founding the company in 1938 selling dried
fish in South Korea.

According to court documents filed by Lee Maeng-Hee, "the stocks... were assets
put in a trust under the name of non-heirs, and they should have been
apportioned to the heirs according to law".

The case was dismissed last year, leaving Lee with all his wealth intact.

Mum's the word for feuding Gallagher brothers

In 2011 Liam Gallagher sued his brother Noel for "lies" over the Oasis split in
and demanded a public apology after Noel claimed they had to pull out of a V
Festival slot because Liam was hungover.

Liam insisted Noel was aware he had doctor-diagnosed laryngitis and disputed
claims the band's split was partly due to fallout over about whether Liam could
advertise his Pretty Green clothing range in their concert programme.

At one point it looked like a truce was on the cards after Noel apologised -
before he then lodged a furious defence with a string of counter accusations -
including listing 12 separate occasions where Liam allegedly "disrupted" gigs by
getting drunk, storming out or getting into fights.

But in 2012 the brothers called off legal action - after their mum Peggy
intervened.Lawyer dad helped kids sue mum

Siblings Steven and Kathryn Miner sued their mother Kimberly Garrity for bad
parenting.

The £300,000-lawsuit accused Kimberly, 55, of causing her children emotional
distress that included failing to give them money in birthday cards.

After their parents broke up, Steven and Kathryn went to live with their lawyer
dad. He claimed he tried to talk the children out of going through with the
legal action before representing them.

The case was dismissed, because the claims were "not so shocking to form a basis
for a claim for intentional infliction of emotional distress".Pregnant
teenager's abortion battle

Last year a Texan teenager took out a lawsuit and a restraining order against
her parents after they tried to make her get an abortion.

The girl, only known as Reagan, was 16 when she launched her legal battle to
keep the child with her now-husband, Evan Madison.

Reagan, whose legal fees were supported by the pro-life organisation Texas
Center for the Defense of Life, said of her parents: "I was furious with both of
them, I wasn't trying to be a stubborn teenager."

Thankfully four months after the legal battle began Reagan made up with her
parents and moved back into the family home.Son wants a pizza the action...

Bernard Bey, from Brooklyn, is seeking compensation for damages - for his
parents not loving him enough.

The 32-year-old claims his parents are to blame for his current unemployment and
homelessness, which he says were triggered by having to enter the shelter system
at the age of 16.

He is asking for a £120,000 settlement as well as two Domino's pizza
restaurants.

He said: "I feel like my parents should want the best for their children and
grandchildren, so we have something to pass down for generations so we don't
have to live like this."

LOAD-DATE: September 1, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDMI


                      Copyright 2014 Trinity Mirror, Plc.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              194 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                            Manchester Evening News

                              July 1, 2014 Tuesday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

Terror as gang attacks man with brick and baseball bat

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 19

LENGTH: 193 words


POLICE are hunting a 20-strong gang who battered two men with a brick and a
baseball bat in an 'unprovoked' street attack.

A 23-year-old and 26-year old were set upon on Blackburn Street in Radcli‚e on
June 28 at around 10.50pm. As they reached the junction of Stand Lane and New
Road, a number of the group attacked the pair.

‹e terriOEed men took blows to the head and body. ‹e vicious thugs continued to
attack them while they lay defenceless on the Žoor on St John's Court. ‹e thugs
then ran o‚ in the direction of Blackburn Street. ‹e two men su‚ered back and
head injuries. One was treated for a suspected fractured cheekbone. Police
believe the group, made up largely of men, consisted of around 20 people. ‹ose
who attacked the men are believed to be in their mid to late teens.

One was white, with a large build, was around 16 to 17-years-old and had fair,
ginger hair.

Det Con Chris Bromley said: "‹is was a completely unprovoked assault on two men
who were simply walking along a road. We are now keen to trace anyone who may
have seen this large group."Be the first to know...

Stay in touch with our live breaking news blog, online from 6.30am every morning

LOAD-DATE: July 1, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: MEN


                     Copyright 2014 Manchester Evening News
                              All Rights Reserved

                              195 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                 Yorkshire Post

                              July 1, 2014 Tuesday

Terror attacks that fanned the flames of conflict in Gaza

LENGTH: 361  words


From: Tony Drake, Howden.

i AM sorry that Geoffrey Bryant didn't understand the point of my use of the
phrase "trying to live peacefully" in Israel (The Yorkshire Post, July 29).

Extremist Muslims have never ceased to attack Israel, using their own people as
suicide bombers or by firing thousands of rockets. Israel has never been an
aggressive nation unless driven to it by extreme aggression from elsewhere.

Hamas has been declared a terrorist organisation - how can one be accused of
aggression when being attacked by terrorists?

From: Peter Asquith-Cowen, Anlaby, near Beverley.

IT is a terrible indictment of our modern times that we are prepared to use
religion to inflict such barbarous carnage on those we don't like, or disagree
with, at a time when we in the West are talking about toleration, respect and
acceptance.

US Secretary of State John Kerry deserves a medal if he can get these warring
factions to lay down their arms and start re-building their devastated
countries. Meanwhile, even worse atrocities are being perpetrated in Syria and
Iraq and the West seems impotent to prevent this disaster from worsening. What
will be the end, I wonder?

From: A Drapkin, Leeds.

ACCORDING to statements by Hamas, every Israeli man, woman and child is a
legitimate target. This is because the conflict is between Jews and Islam. The
world naturally is upset at the deaths of civilians in Gaza, but who is it that
compels women and children to protect its ammunition dumps and rocket launchers?

From: MG Burbage, Rothwell.

AT the moment Israel is busy fighting Hamas over rockets being directed into
Israel from Gaza. What a waste of time and cost with fatalities and injuries to
the local population. It is impossible for Hamas to defeat Israel. The simplest
solution is for Hamas to cease sending rockets into Israel. If the Hamas rockets
cease, there is every possibility that after a month or so there will be peace.
After all, what good comes out of wars?

From: Andrew Mercer, Guiseley.

MORE innocents slaughtered in Gaza. A peaceful resolution even more remote.
Another crisis being made worse by Tony Blair. I'm just grateful he's no longer
PM of this country.

LOAD-DATE: July 31, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: NLYP


                       Copyright 2014 Johnston Press Plc
                              All Rights Reserved

                              196 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                   MailOnline

                      July 2, 2014 Wednesday 11:44 PM GMT

US asks for more security at some foreign airports over fears of 'new
generation' of Syrian terror attacks

BYLINE: ASSOCIATED PRESS

SECTION: AP

LENGTH: 973 words



     ·    There is no imminent threat or plot, officials say
     ·    Homeland Security is addressing additional vulnerability, they say
     ·    Recent warnings have focused on al-Qaida in the Arabian Peninsula
     ·    US intelligence suggests that al-Qaida operatives are planning to
          develop explosives that can avoid detection


Homeland Security Secretary Jeh Johnson is ordering increased security measures
at some overseas airports offering direct flights to the United States.

The Homeland Security Department would not immediately say on Wednesday whether
the increased measures were in response to intelligence about a specific threat.

A U.S. counterterrorism official says American intelligence has seen indications
that certain terrorist groups in Yemen and Syria have joined forces and are
working on a bomb that could make it through airport security undetected.

US officials were reported to have specific concerns about the
al-Qa'ida-affiliate group the Al Nusrah Front in Syria, which they said has now
teamed up with Yemen-based al-Qa'ida in the Arabian Peninsula - the group behind
the 'underwear bomb' which failed to detonate in a plane over Detroit in 2009.

The official spoke on condition of anonymity because the official was not
authorized to discuss the matter publicly by name.

Johnson says the U.S. is sharing recent and relevant information with foreign
allies. He says the government is also consulting with the aviation industry.

The Obama administration is now reportedly considering a complete overhaul of
its system of security checks at the US's international airports - and is
looking to ask its overseas partners to do the same.

The US did not specify which airports or what countries would be affected, nor
did it say what triggered the extra precautions.

It has not been revealed what extra security measures would be put in place.

It is thought that they could include increased random screening of passengers
and tighter scrutiny of footwear and on-board mobile phones and computers

ABC News quoted one defense source as saying the threat, discussed at the White
House over the course of the past week by senior intelligence agencies, is
'different and more disturbing' than previous plots that have involved
potentially using explosives hidden in toothpaste, shoes and ink cartridges.

'We remain concerned about the capability of some of these elements to develop
weapons that could be thwarted by our current security systems,' said a
statement by Homeland Security.

Officials tell there is no imminent threat or plot. However, an additional
vulnerability has been identified, which the Department of Homeland Security is
currently working to address.

'The Department of Homeland Security is regularly reviewing our security
procedures to adapt to the threat that we - that is faced by our transportation
system, as advisories are required to adequately inform the traveling public,
we'll make those announcements.'

Representative Peter King addressed the threat on ABC's This Week

'A number of airports do not have the type of security that they should have.
Basically, we're saying anyone that would fly to the U.S., they would have to
increase their security. We're going to be pushing it, but overseas airport
security is a real concern.'

The threat has grown all the more severe as chaos in Syria and Iraq has created
a safe haven for terror groups to train, plan and recruit westerners to join
their fight.

'Allowing them to pool up in Syria, allowing them to have safe haven the size of
Indiana, between Syria and Iraq, and I say they, al Qaeda-minded individuals
that now have an army.

That is as dangerous a time for an al Qaeda threat to the United States as I've
ever seen.'In recent months, U.S. officials have warned about al Qaeda in the
Arabian Peninsula terrorists attempting to design new explosive devices to avoid
detection.

In February, the government warned airlines about possible shoe bombs, officials
told CNN at the time, amid intelligence suggesting tactics tied to al Qaeda in
the Arabian Peninsula master bomb-maker Ibrahim al Asiri.

A law enforcement source said the U.S. periodically receives information on
attempts by those believed to have been trained by al Asiri to develop bombs
that could defeat screening systems.

Security is also being increased at British airports in direct relation to
America's heightened precautions.

Britain's Department for Transport said the extra measures - which have not been
disclosed - were not expected to cause 'significant disruption' to passengers
and noted that the official UK threat status remained unchanged,

Changes were announced after Washington Homeland Security Secretary Jeh Johnson
ordered beefed up security at foreign airports from where aircraft fly directly
to the US.

'The UK Government keeps aviation security under constant review in conjunction
with international partners and the aviation industry,' a DfT spokesman said.

'We have taken the decision to step up some of our aviation security measures.
For obvious reasons we will not be commenting in detail on those changes.'

'The majority of passengers should not experience significant disruption. There
will be no change to the threat level, which remains at substantial.'

'The safety and security of the public is our paramount concern. The UK has some
of the most robust aviation security measures and we will continue to take all
the steps necessary to ensure that public safety is maintained.'

US officials were reported to have said the move was the result of intelligence
that groups in Yemen and Syria had joined forces to plot an attack.

Prime Minister David Cameron's official spokesman said: 'There are terror
organizations around the world that seek to do the UK, its citizens, citizens of
many other countries including our Western allies, harm.

'We need to always be vigilant to situations that can develop.'

LOAD-DATE: July 2, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDM


                   Copyright 2014 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              197 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                   MailOnline

                      July 2, 2014 Wednesday 11:32 PM GMT

US asks for more security at some foreign airports over fears of 'new
generation' of Syrian terror attacks

BYLINE: ASSOCIATED PRESS

SECTION: AP

LENGTH: 771 words


Homeland Security Secretary Jeh Johnson is ordering increased security measures
at some overseas airports offering direct flights to the United States.

The Homeland Security Department would not immediately say on Wednesday whether
the increased measures were in response to intelligence about a specific threat.

A U.S. counterterrorism official says American intelligence has seen indications
that certain terrorist groups in Yemen and Syria have joined forces and are
working on a bomb that could make it through airport security undetected.

US officials were reported to have specific concerns about the
al-Qa'ida-affiliate group the Al Nusrah Front in Syria, which they said has now
teamed up with Yemen-based al-Qa'ida in the Arabian Peninsula - the group behind
the 'underwear bomb' which failed to detonate in a plane over Detroit in 2009.

The official spoke on condition of anonymity because the official was not
authorized to discuss the matter publicly by name.

Johnson says the U.S. is sharing recent and relevant information with foreign
allies. He says the government is also consulting with the aviation industry.

The Obama administration is now reportedly considering a complete overhaul of
its system of security checks at the US's international airports - and is
looking to ask its overseas partners to do the same.

ABC News quoted one defence source as saying the threat, discussed at the White
House over the course of the past week by senior intelligence agencies, is
'different and more disturbing' than previous plots that have involved
potentially using explosives hidden in toothpaste, shoes and ink cartridges.

'We remain concerned about the capability of some of these elements to develop
weapons that could be thwarted by our current security systems,' said a
statement by Homeland Security.

Officials tell there is no imminent threat or plot. However, an additional
vulnerability has been identified, which the Department of Homeland Security is
currently working to address.

'The Department of Homeland Security is regularly reviewing our security
procedures to adapt to the threat that we - that is faced by our transportation
system, as advisories are required to adequately inform the traveling public,
we'll make those announcements.'

Representative Peter King addressed the threat on ABC's This Week

'A number of airports do not have the type of security that they should have.
Basically, we're saying anyone that would fly to the U.S., they would have to
increase their security. We're going to be pushing it, but overseas airport
security is a real concern.'

The threat has grown all the more severe as chaos in Syria and Iraq has created
a safe haven for terror groups to train, plan and recruit westerners to join
their fight.

'Allowing them to pool up in Syria, allowing them to have safe haven the size of
Indiana, between Syria and Iraq, and I say they, al Qaeda-minded individuals
that now have an army.

That is as dangerous a time for an al Qaeda threat to the United States as I've
ever seen.'

Security is also being increased at British airports in direct relation to
America's heightened precautions.

Britain's Department for Transport said the extra measures - which have not been
disclosed - were not expected to cause 'significant disruption' to passengers
and noted that the official UK threat status remained unchanged,

Changes were announced after Washington Homeland Security Secretary Jeh Johnson
ordered beefed up security at foreign airports from where aircraft fly directly
to the US.

'The UK Government keeps aviation security under constant review in conjunction
with international partners and the aviation industry,' a DfT spokesman said.

'We have taken the decision to step up some of our aviation security measures.
For obvious reasons we will not be commenting in detail on those changes.'

'The majority of passengers should not experience significant disruption. There
will be no change to the threat level, which remains at substantial.'

'The safety and security of the public is our paramount concern. The UK has some
of the most robust aviation security measures and we will continue to take all
the steps necessary to ensure that public safety is maintained.'

US officials were reported to have said the move was the result of intelligence
that groups in Yemen and Syria had joined forces to plot an attack.

Prime Minister David Cameron's official spokesman said: 'There are terror
organizations around the world that seek to do the UK, its citizens, citizens of
many other countries including our Western allies, harm.

'We need to always be vigilant to situations that can develop.'

LOAD-DATE: July 2, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDM


                   Copyright 2014 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              198 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                          China Daily European Edition

                             July 3, 2014 Thursday

'Hometown' of Urumqi suspects vows to help prevent terror attacks

BYLINE: Cui Jia in Urumqi

SECTION: SOCIETY

LENGTH: 391 words


Residents of Pishan county in the Xinjiang Uygur autonomous region, home of the
terrorists who launched in May the deadly attack in the regional capital Urumqi,
alerted police to 23 terrorism-related cases between May 23 and June 30, China
News Service reported on Wednesday.

The residents of the county in Hotan prefecture were furious that the terrorists
damaged their reputation - a report about the attack called the county the
"hometown of the terrorists". They resolved to help authorities find any
suspected terrorists in villages and even in the deserts since Xinjiang launched
a one-year campaign on May 23 to root out terrorism, local police said.

Pishan residents are not afraid of confronting suspects, said Yin Zetao,
director of the Pishan public security bureau.

In May, villagers from Sangzhu township became suspicious of three strangers
wandering around. They confronted the men, who pulled out knives to attack the
villagers. The villagers overpowered the men and seized their weapons as well as
12 explosives hidden in their clothes.

In another incident, a young villager called the police when he noticed someone
on a bus watching terrorist videos on his cellphone.

The county has disbursed 800,000 yuan ($128,800) in rewards to tip-givers who
provided valuable leads on terrorist activities since the anti-terrorism
campaign began.

The terrorist attack in Urumqi on May 22, in which 39 people were killed, was
Xinjiang's bloodiest day in five years. Saturday is the fifth anniversary of the
July 5 riot in Urumqi, which left 197 dead in 2009.

Police said four terrorists in the attack in May drove two vehicles without
license plates through roadside fences and indiscriminately ran over shoppers.
The vehicles were driven at very high speeds and explosives were thrown and
detonated among the crowd of about 5,000. Both vehicles then exploded, killing
all four people inside. More than 94 people were injured.

A suspect who allegedly helped plot the attack was caught later in Xinjiang's
Ba-yinguoleng Mongolian autonomous prefecture. Police said the five members of
the terrorist cell formed at the end of 2013 were from Pishan and had long been
influenced by religious extremism.

Yin said most of the terrorist cases in Pishan during the past three years have
been prevented at the planning stage.

cuijia@chinadaily.com.cn

LOAD-DATE: July 3, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2014 China Daily Information Co
                              All Rights Reserved

                              199 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                   MailOnline

                       July 3, 2014 Thursday 11:26 AM GMT

White House considers complete security overhaul at US international airports
and asks for more checks abroad amid fears of 'new generation' of Syrian terror
attacks

BYLINE: ASSOCIATED PRESS

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 952 words



     ·    There is no imminent threat or plot, officials say
     ·    Homeland Security is addressing additional vulnerability, they say
     ·    Recent warnings have focused on al-Qaida in the Arabian Peninsula
     ·    US intelligence suggests that al-Qaida operatives are planning to
          develop explosives that can avoid detection


Terrorist groups are working on a bomb that can make it through airport security
undetected, it is feared.

The Department of Homeland Security is demanding increased security at overseas
airports linking to America after indications of a joint plot between groups in
Yemen and Syria.

U.S. officials were reported to have specific concerns about the
al-Qa'ida-affiliate group the Al Nusrah Front in Syria, which they said has now
teamed up with Yemen-based al-Qa'ida in the Arabian Peninsula

That latter group was behind the 'underwear bomb' which failed to detonate in a
plane over Detroit in 2009.

The official who revealed the concerns spoke on condition of anonymity because
the official was not authorised to discuss the matter publicly by name.

The Times reported that US officials believe terrorists may be working on a
'stealth' bomb which is undetectable by current security checks.

The new explosives may be non-metallic or plastic and could be surgically
implanted inside a terrorist's body.

Terror groups have been using Syria, large parts of which are under the control
of jihadists, as a testing ground.

Homeland Security Secretary Jeh Johnson says the U.S. is sharing recent and
relevant information with foreign allies. He says the government is also
consulting with the aviation industry.

The Obama administration is now reportedly considering a complete overhaul of
its system of security checks at the U.S.'s international airports - and is
looking to ask its overseas partners to do the same.

It is thought that they could include increased random screening of passengers
and tighter scrutiny of footwear and on-board mobile phones and computers.

ABC News quoted one defence source as saying the threat, discussed at the White
House over the course of the past week by senior intelligence agencies, is
'different and more disturbing' than previous plots.

'We remain concerned about the capability of some of these elements to develop
weapons that could be thwarted by our current security systems,' said a
statement by Homeland Security.

Officials say there is no imminent threat or plot. However, an additional
vulnerability has been identified, which the Department of Homeland Security is
currently working to address.

'The Department of Homeland Security is regularly reviewing our security
procedures to adapt to the threat that we - that is faced by our transportation
system, as advisories are required to adequately inform the traveling public,
we'll make those announcements.'

Representative Peter King addressed the threat on ABC's This Week

'A number of airports do not have the type of security that they should have.
Basically, we're saying anyone that would fly to the U.S., they would have to
increase their security. We're going to be pushing it, but overseas airport
security is a real concern.'

The threat has grown all the more severe as chaos in Syria and Iraq has created
a safe haven for terror groups to train, plan and recruit westerners to join
their fight.

'Allowing them to pool up in Syria, allowing them to have safe haven the size of
Indiana, between Syria and Iraq, and I say they, al Qaeda-minded individuals
that now have an army.

'That is as dangerous a time for an al Qaeda threat to the United States as I've
ever seen.'

In recent months, U.S. officials have warned about al Qaeda in the Arabian
Peninsula terrorists attempting to design new explosive devices to avoid
detection.

In February, the government warned airlines about possible shoe bombs, officials
told CNN at the time, amid intelligence suggesting tactics tied to al Qaeda in
the Arabian Peninsula master bomb-maker Ibrahim al Asiri.

A law enforcement source said the U.S. periodically receives information on
attempts by those believed to have been trained by al Asiri to develop bombs
that could defeat screening systems.

Security is also being increased at British airports in direct relation to
America's heightened precautions.

Britain's Department for Transport said the extra measures - which have not been
disclosed - were not expected to cause 'significant disruption' to passengers
and noted that the official UK threat status remained unchanged,

Changes were announced after Washington Homeland Security Secretary Jeh Johnson
ordered beefed up security at foreign airports from where aircraft fly directly
to the US.

'The UK Government keeps aviation security under constant review in conjunction
with international partners and the aviation industry,' a DfT spokesman said.

'We have taken the decision to step up some of our aviation security measures.
For obvious reasons we will not be commenting in detail on those changes.'

'The majority of passengers should not experience significant disruption. There
will be no change to the threat level, which remains at substantial.'

'The safety and security of the public is our paramount concern. The UK has some
of the most robust aviation security measures and we will continue to take all
the steps necessary to ensure that public safety is maintained.'

US officials were reported to have said the move was the result of intelligence
that groups in Yemen and Syria had joined forces to plot an attack.

Prime Minister David Cameron's official spokesman said: 'There are terror
organizations around the world that seek to do the UK, its citizens, citizens of
many other countries including our Western allies, harm.

'We need to always be vigilant to situations that can develop.'

LOAD-DATE: July 3, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDM


                   Copyright 2014 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              200 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                  mirror.co.uk

                       July 3, 2014 Thursday 10:51 PM GMT

British airports on alert over fears that terrorists are plotting attack using
'human bombs';
Al-Qaeda's top bomb-maker is working on a device that can evade scanners and be
hidden inside a terrorist's body or electronic gadgets

BYLINE: By James Lyons

SECTION: NEWS,WORLD NEWS

LENGTH: 1303 words


British airports are on terror alert over fears that fanatics from Yemen and
Syria have joined forces to plot a "stealth" bomb attack.

Al-Qaeda's top bomb maker Ibrahim Hassan al-Asiri is working on a device that
can evade scanners and be hidden inside a terrorist's body or electronic
gadgets.

His Yemen-based team are feared to have made the 'human bombs' after linking up
with jihadis in Syria where hundreds of Britons are among thousands of Western
Muslims waging war on dictator Bashar al Assad.

Security chiefs fear would-be bombers equipped with European passports are being
groomed to slip out of the country and use the deadly new technology to blow a
plane out of the sky.

Holidaymakers could face a summer of chaos and delays as extra security checks
are carried out in a bid to thwart them.

Passengers were urged to be patient and Nick Clegg warned that the extra
precautions could be here to stay.

The Deputy PM said: "I don't think we should expect this to be a one-off
temporary thing. We have to make sure the checks are there to meet the nature of
the new kinds of threats.

"Whether it is forever - I can't make any predictions. But I don't want people
to think that this is just a sort of a blip for a week.

"This is part of an evolving and constant review about whether the checks keep
up with the nature of the threats we face."

The US ordered airports on routes to American cities to step up security after
picking up a "credible" terror threat.

CIA agents have found some bombs can be made with a couple of ounces of liquid
explosives and a non-metallic detonating device.

They can be surgically implanted into would-be bombers or hidden in electrical
devices or shoes with little possibility of detection.

As a result those boarding flights are set to have electronic devices and
gadgets taken on board planes in hand luggage checked more thoroughly before
being allowed to take them onboard aircraft.

US Secretary Jeh Johnson, of the Department of Homeland Security, announced
extra security measures would be "both seen and unseen" and would be used in a
bid to thwart them.

"We will work to ensure these necessary steps pose as few disruptions to
travellers as possible," Mr Johnson said.

He added: "We are sharing recent and relevant information with our foreign
allies and are consulting the aviation industry."

The alert had an immediate impact on security for trans-Atlantic flights.

Passengers face extra bag searches at departure gates and along with second
checks on shoes, laptops, iPads and other battery-powered gadgets.

Long queues at Manchester on Thursday morning were blamed on the clampdown.

At Heathrow, passengers were being asked to turn on laptops, mobile phones and
other electronics as they passed through security.

Staff were also swabbing all electronic items, clothing and shoes to check for
traces of explosives.

Shoes and belts had to be removed and travellers were subject to "vigorous"
physical searches, according to one passenger.

Officials insisted that the airport was operating normally along with Gatwick.

But British aviation security expert Philip Baum warned heightened security will
mean longer queues and increased waiting times particularly in the busy summer
months.

"It will mean (more) random searches, secondary searches and an increase in the
number of passengers asked to remove shoes and possibly all passengers being
asked to remove shoes if they're going on certain flights," he said.

Downing Street said there was an "evolving threat" and people should continue to
fly but allow "appropriate time" to go through security.

Number 10 urged people to contact airports and airlines for information.

And David Cameron said: "We take these decisions looking at the evidence in
front of us and working with our partners.

"This is something we've discussed with the Americans and what we have done is
put in place some extra precautions and extra checks.

"The safety of the travelling public must come first. We mustn't take any risks
with that.

"I hope this won't lead to unnecessary delays but it's very important that we
always put safety first, and we do."

Spooks are deeply worried by the prospect that Yemen's al-Qaeda in the Arabian
Peninsula (AQAP), and their master bomb maker Ibrahim Hassan al-Asiri, have
linked up with the Jabhat Al-Nusra jihadists in Syria.

Thousands of Westerner fighters involved in the bloody civil war could have
valid passports and visas that would allow them to board a flight to the US.

Former CIA deputy director Mike Morell said: "There a large number of foreign
fighters who have gone to Syria, about 6,000 to 7,000 of them.

"Some of them might be thinking of coming home and conducting terrorist attacks.

"It is very difficult to monitor them because it is so easy to slip into Syria
from the Turkish border."

Since 2009 Al Qaeda and its affiliated groups have unsuccessfully plotted at
least three attacks with bombs carried on board US bound flights by its
operatives or planted in cargo.

One was foiled by passengers who overpowered 'Underwear bomber' Umar Farouk
Abdulmutallab, after his trousers caught fire on a flight from Amsterdam to
Detroit.

The 25-year-old Nigerian was sentenced to life imprisonment following his failed
attack on Christmas Day 2009.

Al-Asiri was believed to be behind the attack.

He also designed the powerful bomb hidden in printer ink cartridges which was
intercepted at a UK airport en route to the US in 2010, where it was timed to
detonate over the east coast.

The master bomb-maker has never been captured and has trained a team of skilled
apprentices who are prepared to take his place should he be killed, according to
American officials.

The US authorities have also warned of a "specific threat" to Entebbe Airport in
Uganda tonight.

The American embassy in Kampala said Ugandan police had informed them that
intelligence sources believe there could be an attack by an unknown terrorist
group.

In a statement the embassy said the threat was apparently aimed for "today, July
3rd, between the hours of 2100-2300".

It added: "Individuals planning travel through the airport this evening may want
to review their plans in light of this information."

Although the embassy did not name any group, al Qaeda-linked Shebab insurgents
have claimed recent attacks in Kenya and Djibouti, and at home in Somalia.

Ugandan Army spokesman Paddy Ankunda said troops had been deployed at the
airport and in the capital, some 35km (20 miles) from Entebbe.

"People must be vigilant in the face of this threat, report any suspicious
individuals seen in their areas," he said, calling on people to "stay calm and
alert."

Here, Transport Secretary Patrick McLoughlin tried to play down the impact on
passengers insisting that the additional security was not expected to cause
"significant" disruption to flights.

"There will be extra security checks but they will be made in the course of
events people already go through and I hope there will not be significant
delays," he said.

Mother of third young Cardiff man in jihadist video begs him to return Analysis:
The danger is not imminent

By Chris Hughes, security editor

The idea of "stealth bombs" being smuggled on to a commercial plane will strike
terror into the hearts of every airline passenger.

If our intelligence agencies seriously thought such a weapon had been created,
it would represent the biggest threat since 9/11.

But MI5 has not raised its alert status from "substantial" - which is below both
"severe" and the most serious, "critical". This means there is a "strong
possibility" of an attack - not an imminent one.

The science of making an undetectable bomb must surely be possible. Meantime,
the extra airport searches will cost us dearly in time and money. And to the
modern-day terrorist that will be enough... until the day they do get a stealth
bomb on to a packed plane.

LOAD-DATE: September 1, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDMI


                      Copyright 2014 Trinity Mirror, Plc.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              201 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                  mirror.co.uk

                       July 3, 2014 Thursday 6:23 PM GMT

Man shot dead in street fight involving 300 rampaging youths is named as Ikram
Elahi;
Five held by police over gun murder and other attacks with machete as witnesses
tell of bloodshed terror just yards from a primary school

BYLINE: By Luke Traynor

SECTION: NEWS,UK NEWS

LENGTH: 319 words


A man shot dead just yards from a primary school in a street brawl has been
named as Ikram Elahi.

The 28-year-old died from a single gunshot wound after disturbances involving
300 youths. Two others were hurt in attacks with gun and a machete.

Witnesses said the second shooting victim refused to drink water offered to him
by a passing Good Samaritan because he was fasting for Ramadan.

But the onlooker told him: "Mate, your fast is already broken."

Another victim had a huge gash in his right arm, and one of injured men's "jaw
was hanging off" according to locals who saw the attacks in the Sparkbrook
district of Birmingham.

Washwood Heath councillor Mariam Khan tweeted: "RIP Ikram Elahi. The young man
who passed away after getting shot this evening in Sparkbrook.

"A life lost over a dispute. Terrible news."

Police attend scene of shooting in Sparkbrook

West Midlands Police have arrested five men in connection with the murder and
attacks on Wednesday evening.

Dramatic pictures have emerged showing one of the blood-soaked victims.

Resident Sued Shah told how she heard shots. She added: "There were two, thirty
seconds apart and then I heard someone crying. People came out of their houses.
There was a young man in the road.

"Someone was holding him crying. I've never seen such a heinous crime, it's just
inhumane."

A witness, who did not want to be named, said: "I heard a gunshot and looked out
of my window to see a man with his face covered running away from the scene
wielding a bat.

"Another guy was walking away and his arm was completely shredded and there was
a lot of blood.

"I could hear someone down the road screaming and shouting, 'I've been shot'
again and again.

"There was a man walking from the scene with his arm all cut up. It looked like
his arm was falling out of the socket and there was blood everywhere."

Locals said Mr Elahi was from Afghanistan while another of the injured men was
Pakistani.

LOAD-DATE: September 5, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDMI


                      Copyright 2014 Trinity Mirror, Plc.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              202 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                  mirror.co.uk

                       July 3, 2014 Thursday 5:37 PM GMT

'Extra checks on electrical items at UK airports' amid warning of terror attack
'tonight';
Any electrical or battery-operated items are being removed from hand luggage for
closer inspection, Sky News reports

BYLINE: By Steve Robson

SECTION: NEWS,UK NEWS

LENGTH: 872 words


Electrical and battery-powered items are being removed from hand luggage amid
warnings of a possible terror attack, according to reports.

Security is being stepped up at airports across the UK after a warning from US
intelligence agencies of a "specific threat" tonight.

The US Embassy in Uganda issued an urgent email warning citizens of intelligence
about a possible attack on the country's Entebbe International Airport between
9pm and 11pm on Thursday.

It said information from Uganda's police, adding that US citizens planning to
travel at that time should consider reviewing their arrangements.

According to Sky News, new measures at UK airports are involving extra checks on
electrical and battery-powered items.

Laptops, iPads, phones, electric toothbrushes and cameras are being taken out of
hand luggage for closer inspection before being allowed on to flights, the
channel reports.

The Department for Transport said extra security measures in the UK - which have
not been officially disclosed - were not expected to cause "significant
disruption" to passengers and noted that the official threat status remained
unchanged.

But travellers reported long queues at               Manchester Airportearly on
Thursday morning, with airport bosses warning people to leave extra time to
check-in.

Passenger Andy Buckley, who was flying to Barcelona from
Manchester with his son,              told the Manchester Evening News: "I've
never seen queues as long as this at Manchester.

"We all understand that security is the primary concern, and people wouldn't
have it any other way, but some passengers were panicking because the queues
were about 600 yards long and they felt they were going to miss their flights".

Manc Airport tweet

Changes were announced after Washington Homeland Security Secretary Jeh Johnson
ordered beefed up security at foreign airports from where aircraft fly directly
to the US.

"The UK Government keeps aviation security under constant review in conjunction
with international partners and the aviation industry," a DfT spokesman said.

"We have taken the decision to step up some of our aviation security measures.
For obvious reasons we will not be commenting in detail on those changes.

"The majority of passengers should not experience significant disruption. There
will be no change to the threat level, which remains at substantial.

"The safety and security of the public is our paramount concern. The UK has some
of the most robust aviation security measures and we will continue to take all
the steps necessary to ensure that public safety is maintained."

It comes as a British jihadi posted a chilling picture of home-made bombs online
- warning the UK government should be "afraid" about him returning with his new
skills.

Former Cardiff schoolboy Nasser Muthana, 20, posted an online photograph of a
stack of notorious improvised explosive devices - IEDs - in a garage.

And he added the stark warning: "So the UK is afraid I come back with the skills
I've gained."

Cardiff medical student appears in ISIS Jihad recruitment video

The move is said to be the result of intelligence that groups in Yemen and Syria
had joined forces to plot an attack.

Bombmakers from the Nusra Front, al Qaeda's affiliate in               Syria,
and Yemen-based Al Qaeda in the Arabian Peninsula, or AQAP, are believed to be
working together to try to develop explosives that could avoid detection by
current airport screening systems, US national security sources said.

The main concern is that militant groups could try to blow up US - or
Europe-bound planes by concealing bombs on foreign fighters carrying Western
passports who spent time with Islamist rebel factions in the region.

Prime Minister David Cameron's official spokesman said: "There are terror
organisations around the world that seek to do the UK, its citizens, citizens of
many other countries including our Western allies, harm.

"We need to always be vigilant to situations that can develop."

In a statement, Mr Johnson said he had directed the US Transportation Security
Administration (TSA) to "implement enhanced security measures in the coming days
at certain overseas airports with direct flights to the United States".

He said the move was based on the current assessment of "the global threat
environment".

"We will work to ensure these necessary steps pose as few disruptions to
travellers as possible," he added.

"We are sharing recent and relevant information with our foreign allies and are
consulting the aviation industry.

"These communications are an important part of our commitment to providing our
security partners with situational awareness about the current environment and
protecting the travelling public.

"Aviation security includes a number of measures, both seen and unseen, informed
by an evolving environment. As always, we will continue to adjust security
measures to promote aviation security without unnecessary disruptions to the
travelling public."

The increased security measures - reported to include closer scrutiny of
personal electronics and footwear - come amid fears individuals with Western
passports who have travelled to Syria and Iraq to fight with Islamist extremists
could be used to smuggle devices on to planes.

LOAD-DATE: September 5, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDMI


                      Copyright 2014 Trinity Mirror, Plc.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              203 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                            BBC Monitoring Kiev Unit
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                              July 4, 2014 Friday

Ukrainian forces foil terrorist attack on security HQ in troubled east

LENGTH: 159 words


Text of report by Interfax-Ukraine news agency

Kiev, 4 July: The Security Service of Ukraine [SBU] has thwarted a terrorist
attack on the headquarters and command of the antiterrorist operation [ATO], SBU
head Valentyn Nalyvaychenko has said.

"Yesterday, the SBU prevented a terrorist attack on its ATO headquarters. Not
only did it prevent the attack, but also detained and arrested a resident [Rus:
rezident], the head of the saboteur group comprising 10 people, who committed or
attempted to commit a terrorist attack against the command of the ATO and its
headquarters in Donetsk and Luhansk regions," he told a news conference in Kiev
on Friday [4 July].

He added: "These people are giving testimony and confirming that the arms and
instructions they are receiving are coming from Russia,  from specific military
units in Rostov Region and military commanders of Russian units."

Source: Interfax-Ukraine news agency, Kiev, in Russian 1308 gmt 4 Jul 14

LOAD-DATE: July 4, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2014 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              204 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                               Belfast Telegraph

                              July 4, 2014 Friday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

DIVE, DIVE, DIVE!;
Seagulls bringing terror to the skies as they attack people and pigeons

BYLINE: LINDA STEWART

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 567 words


THEY'RE the terror of the skies - the seagulls pooping on our cars, divebombing
our pets and scattering litter round our parks.

But now the airborne menaces are demonstrating a shocking new twist in their
behaviour, following a spate of incidents in which seagulls attacked and killed
feral pigeons - all in the same part of Belfast.

In some of the attacks the seagulls went on to devour the pigeons they had just
killed.

Sharon Whittaker managed to capture on her cameraphone one incident in which a
seagull was eating a pigeon after attacking it behind the Movie House Cinema on
the Dublin Road.

"I'm definitely not a bird expert but just generally I've witnessed an increase
in seagulls in the city centre, but more recently seagulls eating pigeons," she
said.

Sharon said her friend Charlene had seen the same thing happen on several
occasions.

"One pigeon was already down and the seagull was eating at it before she saw it,
but a taxi driver parked up alongside it said he saw the attack and told her the
seagull set upon the pigeon and killed it before eating it," she said.

Meanwhile, journalist John Mulgrew couldn't believe his eyes when a seagull
killed a pigeon as he was leaving his apartment in the Dublin Road area.

"This seagull just dandered up, casually grabbed the pigeon by the neck and
lifted it up and banged it on the ground five or six times. It was lying there
dead, and it just walked off," he said.

"The whole journey into work I was like 'Did I just see a seagull murder a
pigeon?'" Meanwhile, Twitter user 'Belfast Barman' described looking out of his
apartment to see a wheelie bin lying on its side with around a dozen seagulls
rummaging in it.

"One flew off and landed on the balcony railing on the apartment next to me and
dropped some of its haul on the balcony floor," he said.

"A pigeon landed and was pecking at it, the seagull grabbed the pigeon by the
wing and flew above the railing, dropped the pigeon to the ground then flew down
and literally ate the thing alive.

"It took about 20 minutes or so, but it was hardly recognisable as a pigeon by
the end."

It comes after the Belfast Telegraph revealed how tourists were being put off
visiting some of the north coast's beaches by the copious amounts of litter
scattered from bins by seagulls and crows.

Numerous readers contacted us to tell how they had been terrorised by low-flying
gulls, including Richard Gould, who had a seagull divebomb within a couple of
centimetres of his head as he walked through an alley off the Lisburn Road.

And communications executive Lorraine Anthony described how she and her
boyfriend have had to take a different dogwalking route because they regularly
come under attack from seagulls on the Lisburn Road.

"There was a baby bird on a rooftop and we think they were protecting it.

"We got the full assault - the crowing, which sounds like an evil cartoon
villain laugh, and swooping at us," she said.

"It was genuinely scary - they're really big. As other people manage to walk by
uninterrupted, we think they've taken a dislike to our dog, so while they're on
full alert we'll be walking a different route!" "  RSPB spokesperson Amy Ryan
said: "Pigeons certainly aren't a mainstay of an urban gull''s diet. They are
mostly carrion feeders but, at this time of year, it wouldn''t be surprising to
hear of a gull attacking or killing a pigeon if it was trying to protect the
area around its nest."

LOAD-DATE: July 4, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: BTT


                Copyright 2014 Belfast Telegraph Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              205 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                 Express Online

                        July 4, 2014 Friday 12:04 AM GMT

Race to find madman plotting 'invisible' bomb terror attack

BYLINE: Cyril Dixon

LENGTH: 783 words


BRITAIN is facing a nightmarish new terrorist threat from surgically implanted
"body bombs".

Airport security is heightened as authorities search for Ibrahim Hassan al-Asiri
[REUTERS/GETTY]

Intelligence chiefs believe that Muslim fanatics plan to blow up passenger jets
heading to America with invisible explosives sewn inside their bodies.

The non-metallic and low-vapour devices are virtually undetectable by airport
scanners.

As security was stepped up last night, with swabbing of hand luggage, body
searches and second checks at the departure gate, the race was on to find the
mastermind behind the plot.

He is understood to be a Saudi-born bomb-maker called Ibrahim Hassan al-Asiri.

The 32-year-old killer is top of the CIA's wanted list and works from a secret
base in Yemen. His previous plots include the "underpants bomb" attack on a
US-bound jet and three devices secreted in printers flown to ­Britain and
America.

Security was also tightened in Uganda last night after what police described as
a "specific threat" to Kampala international airport.

A Downing Street spokesman said that there was an "evolving threat" to the UK
and other countries but people should travel as usual.

A Downing Street spokesman would not give details of extra measures were being
taken to safeguard passengers but said there would be "significant disruption".

David Cameron warned: "We need always to be vigilant to situations that can
develop. There are terror organisations around the world that seek to do the UK,
its citizens and citizens of many other countries harm."

Details of the new threat emerged in the US. Homeland Security chief Jeh Johnson
said: "We are sharing information with our foreign allies and consulting the
aviation industry. We continually evaluate the world situation and we not
infrequently make changes to aviation security."

In a BBC interview, Mr Cameron added: "We take these decisions looking at the
evidence in front of us and working with our partners.

"This is something we've discussed with the Americans and what we have done is
put in place some extra precautions and extra checks. The safety of the
travelling public must come first. We mustn't take any risks with that." The
intelligence on which the crackdown is based comes from Syria, a magnet for
radicalised foreign Jihadis, and Yemen, where al-Asiri is a key figure in Al
Qaeda.

He designed the underpants device used by a London-educated Nigerian bomber in a
failed bid to destroy a plane flying to the US on Christmas Day 2009.

The son of a Saudi military officer, al-Asiri was also behind the devices placed
inside printers' ink cartridges. One was discovered in a plane at Castle
Donington airport in the East Midlands and two others were on US-bound flights.
None exploded.

His younger brother Abdullah was killed, aged 23, when he used one of his bombs
in a failed suicide attack on the Saudi deputy interior minister. As well as
making bombs, al-Asiri has been training new recruits in the expectation that he
will be killed in a US drone attack.

One of eight children born in the Saudi capital Riyadh to devout Muslim father
Hassan, he drifted apart from the family a decade ago and emerged several years
later as a fully fledged Islamic militant.

A document found by US intelligence agents suggests he commissioned doctors to
examine surgical processes for inserting the body bombs.

After experimenting on dogs and other animals, they decided an overweight bomber
would be best.

"The idea was to insert the device in the terrorist's 'love handle'," a US
official told Newsweek magazine.

Security consultant Will Geddes said al-Asiri was Al ­Qaeda's "number one bomb
maker". He added: "Experts are worried there has been more bomb training in some
of the terror cells across the Arabian peninsula.

"The technology for bomb making is better than it was 10 years ago. That makes
it easier to share information.

"It could mean using a chemical that the scanner doesn't recognise. We're
talking about objects made from innocuous materials, chemicals that slip under
the radar.

"Think of it as a way to confuse the technology in scanners. It could be the
substances in a printer cartridge, as with the East Midlands attempt. It's a
constant battle between those protecting people and those trying to cause harm.
Airport security teams have to be a lot more vigilant. We know there's a lot of
links between Al Qaeda and this man. He's a threat."

Saudi Arabia was yesterday reported to have deployed 30,000 soldiers to its
border with Iraq amid fears of further inroads by the extremist Muslim group
Isis, which is preparing an assault on the Iraqi capital Baghdad. The rebels
claim to have sleeper cells ready to rise up at "zero hour".

LOAD-DATE: July 4, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDE


              Copyright 2014 Northern and Shell Media Publications
                              All Rights Reserved

                              206 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                        July 4, 2014 Friday 8:00 AM GMT

Muslim 7/7 bomb survivor: Islamophobic Britain makes me fear for my children;
Face Your Fears podcast: Ahead of the ninth anniverary of the 7/7 terror attacks
in London, the only Muslim bomb survivor Sajda Mughal talks to Louisa Peacock
about the rise of Islamophobia in Britain and what the future holds for her two
children

BYLINE: By Louisa Peacock

LENGTH: 1849 words


Nine years on from the 7/7 bomb attacks in London, Sajda Mughal, the only known
Muslim survivor from below ground, has a clear message.

Had the mothers of the four terrorists who detonated bombs on July 7, 2005,
killing 52 victims, been better "equipped" to spot and deal with their sons'
"incorrect ideology", we may have been able to prevent the bombings altogether,
she claims.

"Women and mothers are role models and key influencers within their home. They
can nurture their children in order to change their mindset. July 7 was carried
out by four Muslim males, with an incorrect ideology. Potentially, had their
mothers been equipped and empowered, and nurtured their children, we may have
prevented that attack from happening," she says.

I point out this is a huge leap to take; that surely, plenty of other factors
are at play and in any case, isn't she at risk of sounding like she's blaming
the mothers?

"It is a huge leap to take," Mughal admits. But she defends her thinking.
"Having experienced what I experienced on July 7, being a Muslim myself, knowing
that the [terrorists'] ideology was incorrect; something has to be done in order
not to experience those attacks again.

"For me it was and is about changing those mindsets but equipping these mothers
to nurture those children away from risk of those paths."

Improving lives

What happened to Mughal during 7/7 moved her to quit her corporate job in
investment banking and work closely with her community, particularly with women
and mothers, at the Jan Trust . The charity aims to improve the lives of
communities by promoting human and women's rights, working to prevent hate
crime, domestic violence and forced marriage, among others.

Mughal, now a mother herself to a one year-old and a four year-old, has seen
first hand the impact positive role models can have on communities and a lot of
the work she does at the Jan Trust helps to equip mothers, in particular, with
the right tools to make that positive impact.

"It's about changing mindsets. Through my work, I've changed those mindsets,
worked with those at risk, those who believe in this incorrect ideology, the
same ideology that led to the attacks on July 7. I'm working with mothers of and
the young men who think that."

There is no doubt that what happened on 7/7 changed Mughal's life and work
forever. She tries to channel the tragedy and negativity of that day into
something positive, into changing lives for the better in her local community.

Haunted

As the nine-year anniversary of the 7/7 attacks approaches, however, the former
recruitment consultant is still haunted by the horrific events of that day, when
she shared the same Tube as Germaine Lindsay, one of the suicide bombers, on her
way to work.

"The Tube got to King's Cross, and 10 seconds into the tunnel [between King's
Cross and Russell Square], there was this massive, loud bang. The train came to
a sudden halt. The lights had gone off.

"Those of us who had sat down lurched forward, you can imagine, weekday rush
hour, the Tube is packed. Those that were stood up fell forward on top of each
other," she says.

Mughal's immediate thought was that the train had derailed. She started to
panic: the next train leaving King's Cross would almost certainly run into the
back of them, causing an almighty crash, she thought.

"We're going to die down here. We're going to burn to death," she thought.

She had no idea that what had stopped the train that day was in fact, a bomb.

There were no announcements underground after the bang. In the dark carriage,
with only a faint emergency light, people started panicking - shouting "blood",
"hurt", "help me" - some were trying to break the Tube window glass to no avail.
Pregnant women were offered seats. Schoolchildren, on their way to school, were
being looked after by strangers. But lots of people were crying, some screaming.

It was hell on earth, hundreds of feet underground, and it went on for around 45
minutes.

"The carriage was filling up with black smoke, I took off my blazer and covered
my face," Mughal recalls.

"I was literally staring death in the face.

"I was thinking that this is it. July 7, 2005, is it for me and everyone else
sat here. That's when I started to think, 'I haven't said goodbye to my loved
ones, I haven't done this in my life, I haven't done that'.

"That phrase 'it felt like a lifetime', I know what it means now. It literally
felt like a lifetime, down on the underground, I thought I was going to die."

Eventually, after a long and painful 45 minutes, Mughal heard distant cries -
"it's police, we're coming to get you" - and she felt overwhelming relief. "We
were going to be saved."

The police rescued everyone in her carriage and led them out to King's Cross
station, above ground. Mughal remembers onlookers staring in disbelief at them;
she couldn't figure out why until she saw herself in the mirror later - she was
covered from head to toe in black smoke.

The events of that day changed her perspective on life.

"My ambition, [before 7/7] I wanted to move up the career ladder and basically
focus on my career. What I'm doing today, I would never have thought to do. It's
only because of what happened to me on July 7 and what I experienced."

The rise of 'Islamophobia'

And yet hand in hand with her work now trying to educate communities to prevent
further attacks, Mughal also deals with Islamophobia .

Islamophobiais defined as prejudice or hatred towards, or fear of, Muslims or
ethnic groups perceived to be Muslim.

Islamophobic attacks have been on the rise ever since 9/11, but it's mostly
Muslim women who are targeted,a recent report suggests.

Many of those same women and mothers Mughal tries to 'equip' and 'empower' to
prevent further attacks also fall victim to everyday abuse, says Mughal,
involving anything from people grabbing their veils and calling them terrorists,
to deadly stares and saying that they want them dead.

Mughal has experienced it with her own mother, who wears a hijab. Immediately
after the 7/7 attacks, they could rarely go anywhere in town without people
"staring, making comments and whispering". On the Tube, "people would not want
to sit next to her".

"It happened quite regularly. Also on the street, I'd hear people passing
comments to women wearing headscarves. From my network, I'm hearing that
schoolchildren are being bullied at school - comments like 'your father's Osama
bin Laden, your uncle is Saddam Hussein, you've got a rucksack, is there a bomb
in there?'"

In fact, Mughal believes that Islamophobia in Britain is on the rise, but racist
and vile abuse often gets worse when there has been a fresh attack connected to
radical Islam, such as the Woolwich murder of Drummer Lee Rigby .

"We had more and more clients coming to us after Woolwich, saying, this happened
to me. When we have these tragic events, we see a rise in Islamophobia."

Mughal is "upset" and "frustrated" that all Muslims are painted with the same
vile brush. "Ignorant minded people believe all Muslims are like that and think
they have to target all Muslims."

She explains that when women suffer these racist attacks, it dents their
confidence, making them feel as though they don't belong in British society. She
spends a great deal of time at the Jan Trust trying to "empower" women to build
their confidence back up, provide counselling and make them realise that not all
non-Muslims are like that.

She admits that seeing her own mother attacked has also dented her own
confidence, where she is "scared to walk down the street" as a Muslim woman in
Britain, and the rise of Islamophobia is one of her greatest fears for her two
children. "Islamophobia actually does keep me awake at night.

"I don't want Islamophobia to continue, I don't want another 7/7 happening.
Having two young children, it's really concerning for me, I want them to be
brought up in tolerant society."

'Why I don't wear the hijab'

Interestingly, Mughal, a Muslim woman, chooses not to wear a headscarf, even
though she knows that within Islam, it is "compulsory" for women.

I ask if she is afraid of being the target of attacks if she wore it.
"Potentially, I could be subject to Islamophobic attacks," she says.

But mainly, she tells me, she's just not ready to commit to her religion in that
way.

"I don't feel I'm ready to wear a headscarf. When I choose to wear the hijab,
then I will fully commit to that.

"Once you choose to wear a hijab, you choose to commit to God, for example, in
terms of praying five times a day, not missing a prayer. In all honesty, I don't
pray five times. But I'm embracing my faith more where potentially, I'd want
to."

I wonder if there is another, more compelling reason for Mughal to refuse to
wear a headscarf. Critics have argued that wearing a headscarf, a face veil or
the full burka is "oppressive" and signals that women are subordinate to men. A
Facebook page encouraging Iranian woman to send photos of themselves without
their headscarves - embracing "freedom" - has attracted over 500,000 likes and
counting.

But Mughal contests. In Britain, a headscarf does not equal oppression, she
says.

"No. I disagree. Just because you put a hijab on doesn't mean you're subordinate
to a man. I know plenty of women who wear headscarves who run the homes in all
honesty, that's a huge misconception, that just because a woman wears a hijab
... that's it, she's oppressed, she's being abused, that's a huge
misconception."

"That's not a worry for me, that if I wear a headscarf I'm automatically
oppressed," she says.

Ban veils?

In a nod to the 'veils in schools' debate which flared up again recently, Mughal
thinks British people should have the right to wear what they want, free from
criticism or judgement - only taking off the full face veil for security
reasons.

Indeed, Mughal has learned to deal with the Islamophobia her family and clients
have faced in a really positive way - by going into schools and trying to
educate the next generation about why Islamophobia is wrong and simultaneously,
why terrorism is wrong.

"I tell schoolchildren that actually, this is not what Islam stands for. Islam
in no way teaches us to go out and attack innocent civilians. It's forbidden.
Hand in hand we talk about the rise in Islamophobia and how it effects people.

"During 7/7, what was actually achieved? People died, people lost their limbs.
The four who carried out the attacks had serious grievances, an incorrect
ideology.

"If you are frustrated with foreign policy, then channel it positively. Liaise
with your MP, discuss with them, volunteer with organisations who deal with
victims of war, utilise social media, create campaign petitions, ways where your
voice can be heard positively, rather than destructively."

Subscribe to the Face Your Fears podcast on iTunes

Sajda Mughal has been interviewed as part of the Face Your Fears podcast series
from Telegraph Wonder Women.

Hear Britain's most senior judge Lady Hale and dotcom millionaire Martha Lane
Fox, talk candidly about the fears they've faced in life to get to where they've
got today.

LOAD-DATE: July 4, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTNS


                  Copyright 2014 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              207 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                        July 4, 2014 Friday 6:57 AM GMT

Call in the dogs for tighter airport security;
More trained sniffer dogs at departure gates would help prevent terror attacks
in the air

LENGTH: 1145 words


SIR - The heart sinks at the thought of yet more security checks at airports.
While we all recognise the need to do everything in our power to prevent terror
attacks, it is difficult to appreciate why explosives-trained sniffer dogs are
not used more frequently among passengers at departure gates. Surely this would
be both quick and effective.

Ginny Martin                      Bishop's Waltham, Hampshire

SIR - Now that the European Court has ruled that it is not an infringement of
human or religious rights to ban the burka in France, can we have the same
ruling here? America has asked us to tighten security at airports, and police
and security staff can hardly be expected to identify someone from their eyes
alone.

Anthony Gould                      London W1

City states

SIR - We welcome the recent speechfrom the Chancellor, George Osborne and the
conclusions of Lord Adonis's Growth Report recognising how crucial the
devolution of power to English cities is to the growth of our economy. However,
politicians need to be bolder in order to achieve this growth and deliver
much-needed jobs in all of England's cities.

We are already campaigning for greater local control of taxes raised in cities
to enable them to invest and drive the national economy, specifically through
the devolution of property taxes. This reform would provide cities with the
means and incentives to expand their economies, and crucially would be
cost-neutral to the Treasury, at least in the first year.

The era of bold civic leadership associated with the 19th and early 20th century
was defined by even greater autonomy than that outlined in our proposals. We
therefore urge politicians to grant to our cities the fiscal autonomy that we
believe is appropriate for the 21st century.

Boris Johnson                     Mayor of London Sir Richard LeeseLeader of
Manchester City Council andChairman, Core Cities Group Jules PipeChairman,
London Councils

An unfortunate day

SIR - Your obituary of Vernon "Ginger" Coles mentions the sinking of the German
cargo vessel Bärenfels in Bergen harbour. She was unloading coal there on April
14 1944, lying next to the floating dock, which was the target. Amid the murky
waters, the crew of Coles's X-24 (commanded by Lieutenant Max Shean) had to
guess which was the floating dock and which Bärenfels. These were of virtually
the same size, and they guessed wrongly.

On April 14 1940, four years earlier to the day, Bärenfels was sunk in Bergen
harbour by Blackburn Skua dive-bombers. She was later lifted and repaired. So
one and the same ship was sunk twice in the same harbour.

Tore Fauske                      Cheltenham, Gloucestershire

Disc world

SIR - Earlier this year I renewed my tax disc online, expecting to be charged
£265.

When I received my disc a few days later, the cost was listed as such. However,
my bank statement showed that "taxdisc direct Alresford" had charged me £305.

What is going on?

Captain Derek Hopkins (retd)                     Haywards Heath, West Sussex

Control over Trident

SIR - The financial albatross called Trident is neither independent nor
credible. Control was handed to Washington when the decision was made to use a
missile delivery system designed, manufactured and overhauled in America. Even
submarine-launched test firings are conducted in American waters near Cape
Canaveral, under US Navy supervision. It is inconceivable that No 10 would fire
Trident in anger without prior approval from the White House.

Persisting with Trident and its proposed replacement in order to retain our
permanent Security Council seat is to reject British pragmatism in favour of la
gloire. At least the French, to their credit, went to the trouble of developing
their own submarine-launched missile-delivery system. They own it, hence control
it.

Yugo Kovach                      Winterborne Houghton, Dorset

Laughing in class

SIR - Michael Morpurgo has encouraged teachers to cry when reading emotional
stories to their young pupils. Perhaps they should also break into hysterical
laughter when discussing with their older pupils our parliamentarians' policies
and behaviour.

Dick Laurence                     Wells, Somerset

Storm-proof phones

SIR - Harry Wallop ( Features, July 1) is clearly a townie if he finds the
landline dispensable. In the countryside, it is essential in those areas where
there is no mobile signal. And an analogue telephone will keep going through
power-cuts.

Julie Juniper                     Eype, Dorset

Responsible drinking

SIR - In order to drink non-alcoholic beer responsibly ( Letters, July 2), you
first have to buy it. When buying Bavaria 0 per cent at a self-service till, I
always have to wait for an assistant to confirm I am of age.

David Fisher                      Leicester

SIR - Steve Frampton asks how it is possible to drink non-alcoholic beer
irresponsibly. It's quite easy really. Simply remove your shirt and walk through
the town centre with the can in your hand.

Mark Allen                     East Grinstead, West Sussex

Where have all the bananas gone at Wimbledon?

SIR - A couple of years ago it was de rigueur for Wimbledon players to eat
bananas during a match. To date, I have noticed only a couple being consumed.

What does the tennis fraternity know about bananas that we don't?

Alan Belk                     Leatherhead, Surrey

SIR - I was disappointed to note that most members of the crowd interviewed
after Andy Murray's defeat kept their sunglasses on. I was taught that, if
spoken to in a formal situation, you remove sunglasses so that people can see
your eyes.

Mike Lawrie                     Bridge of Weir, Renfrewshire

SIR - Andy Murray's cousins ( Letters, July 2) are on a well-earned summer break
from school and are not flouting attendance rules.

Scottish schools break up at least a month ahead of English schools and lessons
resume in mid-August.

L G Baines                      Ide Hill, Kent

SIR - "Oh, I say!" Bring back Dan Maskell.

Roderick Taylor                     Bourne End, Buckinghamshire

SIR - It is interesting that among the Wimbledon commentators, Mark Petchey is
familiarly referred to as Petch.

Had his actual name been Petch he would probably have been called Petchy.

Peter Hamilton                     London SE3

LOAD-DATE: July 4, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTNS


                  Copyright 2014 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              208 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                               Al-Arab (English)

                                  July 5, 2014

Terrorist attack leaves one police officer dead in Bahrain

LENGTH: 252  words


Police officer Mahmud Farid dies Saturday before dawn from wounds sustained in
terrorist explosion at East Ekar, near Manama.


DUBAI - A police officer died in a "terrorist" blast in a Shiite-populated
village in the Sunni-ruled Gulf kingdom of Bahrain, an interior ministry
official announced Saturday."Police officer Mahmud Farid died Saturday before
dawn from wounds sustained in a terrorist explosion at East Ekar", near Manama,
said national security chief General Tareq al-Hassan in a statement published by
national news agency BNA.An investigation has been opened to identify and arrest
those behind the attack, he added without giving further details.Attacks on
security forces have been on the rise in Bahrain in recent months, with three
police officers, one from the United Arab Emirates, killed in a bomb attack in a
Shiite-populated town on March 3.Another officer died on February 15, also by a
bomb blast, in a Shiite village during protests marking the third anniversary of
Shiite-led demonstrations, taking their cue from Arab Spring uprisings elsewhere
in the region and demanding democratic reforms in the absolute monarchy.Security
forces boosted by Saudi-led troops ended the protests a month later, but smaller
demonstrations frequently take place in Shiite villages, triggering clashes with
police.Bahrain, a strategic archipelago just across the Gulf from Iran, is the
home base of the US Fifth Fleet, and Washington is a long-standing ally of the
ruling Al-Khalifa dynasty.


Alarab Online.

LOAD-DATE: July 6, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: 172


                         Copyright 2014 Alarab Online.
              Provided by Syndigate.info, an Albawaba.com company
                              All Rights Reserved

                              209 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring Middle East - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                             July 5, 2014 Saturday

US embassy in Algeria warns of possible "terrorist" attacks

LENGTH: 114 words


Text of report by Qatari government-funded, pan-Arab news channel Al-Jazeera
satellite TV on 4 July

The United States embassy in Algeria has asked its employees and American
nationals to avoid hotels owned or operated by Americans for fear of possible
attacks on them.

A warning posted on the embassy website told its staff to avoid going to those
hotels or even being present in their vicinity on the 4 July US Independence Day
and Algerian Independence Day on Saturday, 5 July.

The statement spoke of what it called an unknown terrorist group which may carry
out attacks in Algeria, most likely in the vicinity of a US-branded hotel.

Source: Al-Jazeera TV, Doha, in Arabic 2100 gmt 4 Jul 14

LOAD-DATE: July 5, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2014 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              210 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                               Belfast Telegraph

                             July 5, 2014 Saturday
                                   Edition 1;

Terror of teen knife attack victim;
He was almost killed

BYLINE: DONNA DEENEY

SECTION: NEWS; FRONT PAGE; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 67 words


A YOUNG man almost stabbed to death by a crazed stranger high on a cocktail of
drink and drugs has spoken of his ordeal.

Corie Mawhinney was just 17 when he was subject to an unprovoked attack outside
a nightclub in Magherafelt in April last year. Sean Murray (24) was sentenced to
three years in prison and three years on licence for the attack, but Mr
Mawhinney said it was not enough.

FULL STORY, PAGE 14

LOAD-DATE: July 5, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: BTT


                Copyright 2014 Belfast Telegraph Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              211 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                       July 5, 2014 Saturday 10:05 PM GMT

Spy watchdog: UK under threat from jihadi bomb makers with 'devilish technical
skill';
Sir Malcolm Rifkind, chairman of the Intelligence and Security Committee, warns
that the British public has grown complacent over risk of terror attack

BYLINE: By Tim Ross Robert Mendick and Raf Sanchez in Washington

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 1262 words


Britain faces a new attack from jihadi bomb makers with the "devilish technical
skill" to make explosive devices concealed in mobile phones and tablet
computers, parliament's intelligence watchdog says today.

Sir Malcolm Rifkind, the chairman of the Intelligence and Security Committee,
warns that the British public has grown complacent about the threat of a
terrorist attack on UK soil and that the lack of vigilance is "seriously
disturbing".

The former Foreign Secretary, who received a secret intelligence briefing on the
latest transatlantic airline bomb plot, says he has "no doubt" that extra
security searches at airports are necessary.

Sir Malcolm's warning coincided with a chilling call to arms made by the leader
of the Islamic State, formerly the Islamic State in Iraq and al-Sham (Isis).

Abu Bakr al-Baghdadi emerged from the shadows to lead prayers at Mosul's Great
Mosque in northern Iraq, the first time the notoriously secretive jihadi has
made such a public appearance.

"God gave your mujahideen brothers victory after long years of jihad and
patience ... so they declared the caliphate and placed the caliph in charge,"
said al-Baghdadi.

His emboldened demonstration of power comes as intelligence services in both
Britain and the US believe that al-Qaeda's chief bomb maker, Ibrahim Hassan
al-Asiri, who is thought to be based in Yemen, has linked up with jihadists in
Syria to pass on his skills. An estimated 500 Britons are thought to be fighting
in Syria's civil war, with some making threats via social media and in broadcast
interviews to return to the UK and carry out bomb campaigns.

Security services believe al-Asiri has developed more sophisticated bombs
contained principally in electronic devices such as smart phones and hand-held
computers, which can evade current airport checks.

Having occupied large swathes of Iraq, the Islamic State (Isis) is also now in a
position to fund the research and development of more technologically advanced
bomb-making equipment.

This week, the Department of Homeland Security in Washington will issue guidance
to airports across Europe asking that new security checks on flights heading to
the US are implemented. It is likely to lead to more stringent checks on
passengers at British airports and longer queues, coinciding with the summer
holiday getaway.

The Sunday Telegraph understands that part of the guidance will require airport
security staff to routinely test smartphones and computers for traces of
explosives.

Writing in today's Sunday Telegraph, Sir Malcolm says that in his position as
chairman of the Intelligence and Security Committee, the parliamentary committee
which oversees the secret operations of MI5 and MI6, he has been shown the
evidence gathered by intelligence agencies which underpin a series of new
security measures being introduced at British airports and across Europe.

Sir Malcolm, writing on the eve of the ninth anniversary of the July 7 bombings
in London, says: "We must not underestimate the devilish technical skill of
those terrorists who design ever more sophisticated means of concealing
explosives in mobile devices, in clothing and in otherwise innocent objects.
They have been hard at work over the last year."

He adds: "Apart from the terrible murder of Drummer Lee Rigby, the last
successful Islamic jihadi terrorist outrage in Britain was the London bombings
back in 2005. This has resulted in complacency amongst some of the public which
is seriously disturbing. It is simply foolish to believe that the threat is
either minimal or now behind us."

He said that last week's warning of a need for increased airport security was
not ill-founded. "A week before the public announcement I was briefed as to why
new security measures at our airports would be necessary. I have received fuller
information than it has been possible to publish in the newspapers. I have no
doubt that these new steps are not bureaucratic nor an over-reaction."

His comments coincide with a stark warning made by Lord Carlile, the
government's former reviewer of terror legislation, who told The Sunday
Telegraph that the Islamic State (Isis) now had funding on a par with a "large
multinational corporation".

Lord Carlile said: "There is evidence Isis and its followers are capable of
making much more sophisticated bombs. The step-change now is that Isis is very
well-funded. The public needs to be aware this is a major terrorist organisation
with funding comparable to a large multinational corporation and that they have
the capacity to do research and make sophisticated bombs."

Lt Gen Sir Graeme Lamb, the former head of Britain's Special Forces, writing for
the Telegraph website, said it was imperative that the Home Office begin funding
"novel science and security technologies" to combat ever more sophisticated
bomb-making capabilities.

"Unless the Government moves this threat up the agenda, empowers the Home Office
and energises a new era of active partnerships with commercial technology
businesses by pushing money into novel science and security technologies,
accepting difficult legal changes and being prepared to do whatever it takes,
then the terror playing field will collapse in favour of those who would harm
us, and harm us they will," writes Sir Graeme.

He adds that "we no longer have government-funded Blue Sky research facilities
or operating partnerships with such companies, both of which push the boundaries
of known science".

Last week, US officials warned that al-Asiri had developed an explosive that
could evade current security checks at airports. Officials at the Department of
Homeland Security (DHS) are understood to be primarily concerned with electronic
devices rather than bombs concealed in shoes or clothing.

That intelligence led to a beefing up of security on transatlantic flights, with
US officials warning of a need for routine tests for explosives on smart phones
and hand held computers. That security is likely to be tightened further in the
coming days, said a US official. "It's a privilege not a right to fly directly
to the US," the official said, adding that American authorities have the right
to request enhanced security at overseas airports.

DHS has not formally demanded that foreign governments increase security checks
on flights heading to the US but it has shared a draft version of the order with
Britain. The increased screening now taking place at UK airports was put into
place by the Government as a pre-emptive move to meet the US order.

Other airports in Europe, the Middle East and Africa are expected to order
heightened security this week once the formal DHS order is sent. "More
travellers are going to be seeing enhanced security measures in the coming
days," the official said, adding: "We have no concerns about the UK being able
to implement the changes."

While intelligence about a growing terror threat against civilian airliners has
been growing for some time, the decision to order increased checks was made in
the past week. Jeh Johnson, the US Secretary of Homeland Security, said the US
was "very concerned" about the streams of American and European jihadists going
into Syria.

The latest terror alert was sparked by US intelligence picking up signals that
al-Qaeda's Yemeni and Syrian branches were colluding to try to bring down an
aircraft.

Authorities fear that Western jihadists indoctrinated by the al-Nusrah Front,
al-Qaeda'a Syrian offshoot, will be armed and sent to blow up a plane using a
sophisticated bomb built by al-Qaeda in the Arabian Peninsula (AQAP), based out
of Yemen.

LOAD-DATE: July 5, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTNS


                  Copyright 2014 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              212 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring Middle East - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                              July 6, 2014 Sunday

Egypt condemns "terrorist" attacks in Nigeria - agency

LENGTH: 90 words


Text of report by Egyptian state-run news agency MENA

Cairo, 6 July: Egypt condemned on Sunday [6 July] the latest terrorist attacks
by Boko Haram militants against civilians in Nigeria that left scores of
innocent people dead.

Foreign Ministry spokesman Badr Abd-al-Ati expressed the Egyptian government's
condolences to the families of the victims, wishing speedy recovery to the
injured.

He renewed Egypt's solidarity with the Nigerian government and people in face of
terrorism.

Source: MENA news agency, Cairo, in English 0938gmt 06 Jul 14

LOAD-DATE: July 6, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2014 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              213 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring Middle East - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                              July 6, 2014 Sunday

Gulf body condemns "terror attack" in Bahrain

LENGTH: 259 words


Text of report in English by state-owned Bahrain News Agency

Riyadh: 6 July 2014: The GCC [Gulf Cooperation Council] secretary-general, Dr
Abd-al-Latif Bin-Rashid al-Zayani, has condemned the terror bomb attack in the
Kingdom of Bahrain which occurred on Friday [4 July] and resulted in the death
of a public security man. Dr Al-Zayani described the attack as a cowardly
criminal act aimed by its perpetrators at terrifying citizens and residents in
Bahrain and also aimed to return the cycle of violence so to undermine Bahrain's
security and stability.

In a statement to the Bahrain News Agency (BNA), Dr Al-Zayani said that the
targeting of peaceful Bahraini citizens and residents won't discourage the
leadership from maintaining the protection of Bahrain's security and stability
and continuity of the leadership's efforts in fighting terrorism and eradicating
its cells and deterring its inciters.

He expressed his confidence in the efficacy and capability of security agencies
in the Kingdom of Bahrain to unravel the whereabouts of this heinous crime and
to arrest the culprits who committed this crime and bring them before the
justice of the court.

Dr Abd-al-Latif Bin-Rashid al-Zayani expressed his warm condolences to the
family of the martyred policeman and to the Kingdom of Bahrain's government and
people in the wake of this painful incident in which its perpetrators did not
observe the sanctity of the holy month of Ramadan and were devoid of the values
and teachings of Islam.

Source: Bahrain News Agency, Manama, in English 1355 gmt 6 Jul 14

LOAD-DATE: July 6, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2014 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              214 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                       BBC Monitoring Africa - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                              July 6, 2014 Sunday

Successive terror attacks plague Somali capital

LENGTH: 149 words


AU forces at the Livestock market in Heliwaa District near Mogadishu were
targeted in a remote-controlled explosion earlier this morning with casualties
unconfirmed, private Dhacdo website reported on 6 July.

In another incident, armed men launched hand grenades at government soldiers
near Baar Ubah Junction in the capital.

A Mogadishu port official survived an attempt on his life when armed men
strapped explosives to his car which detonated while it was parked near a bank,
adds the source.

These incidents come in the wake of a suicide blast that occurred at the
entrance to the Somali parliament building yesterday, an attack 'which was
proudly claimed by Al-Shabab fighters.'

Insecurity incidents are on the rise in Mogadishu after Al-Shabab vowed to step
up attacks on government, AU targets in the holy month of Ramadan.

Source: Shabelle Media Network website, Mogadishu, in Somali 6 Jul 14

LOAD-DATE: July 6, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2014 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              215 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring Middle East - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                              July 6, 2014 Sunday

EU condemns "terrorist attack" in Bahrain

LENGTH: 126 words


Text of report in English by state-owned Bahrain News Agency

Manama 6 July 2014: The EU has condemned the terrorist blast in East Eker that
resulted in the death of an on-duty policeman.

"The EU Member States Embassies in Bahrain strongly condemn the terrorist attack
in East Eker on Friday, 4 July 2014, that caused the death of policeman Mahmud
Farid," the EU said in a statement issued by the Italian embassy in Bahrain on
Sunday [6 July]. "The EU condemns all forms of violence."

Italy is the current president of the EU that comprises 28 countries.

"The EU also urges all parties to work towards a transparent and peaceful
dialogue, to achieve a durable solution for all Bahrainis," the EU said.

Source: Bahrain News Agency, Manama, in English 1400 gmt 6 Jul 14

LOAD-DATE: July 6, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2014 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              216 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring Middle East - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                              July 6, 2014 Sunday

Morocco strongly condemns `terrorist' attacks in Saudi Arabia

LENGTH: 183 words


Text of report in English by state-owned, government controlled Moroccan news
agency MAP website

Rabat, Jul 06, 2014 (MAP) - The Kingdom of Morocco strongly condemned the two
terrorist attacks which targeted on Friday [4 July] a Saudi security patrol near
the border crossing of Al-Wadi'ah and a government building in southern Saudi
Arabia.

The Ministry of Foreign Affairs and Cooperation said in a statement that
"following the two terrorist attacks which targeted a security patrol near the
Saudi border crossing Al-Wadi'ah and a government building in the south of Saudi
Arabia, the Kingdom of Morocco expresses its strong condemnation of this
despicable terrorist act aimed at undermining the security and stability of the
country and the security of its citizens."

"The kingdom, which extends its sincere condolences to the families of the
victims of these attacks, reiterates its full support for the kingdom of Saudi
Arabia in the fight against terrorism, and the preservation of peace and
stability," the same source added.

Source: MAP news agency website, Rabat, in English 1425 gmt 6 Jul 14

LOAD-DATE: July 6, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2014 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              217 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                               Independent.co.uk

                        July 6, 2014 Sunday 11:56 AM GMT

Al-Shabab claims responsibility after thirteen people shot dead in Kenya;
Dozens of terrorist gunmen were involved in two attacks just off the Kenyan
coast

BYLINE: Tom Odula

SECTION: FRONTPAGE

LENGTH: 166 words


Thirteen people have been killed after two attacks by gunmen thought to be part
of terrorist group al-Shabab happened on the Kenyan coast today.

According to the Kenyan Red Cross, the Sunday attacks took place in the towns of
Hindi in Lamu county and Gamba in Tana River, places where last month
al-Qaida-linked militants, al-Shabab, claimed responsibility for killing 65
people.

Kenya Red Cross chief Abbas Gulet has said that the Somalian group al-Shabab
have already claimed responsibility for the fresh attacks.

According to the Lamu county commissioner Njenga Miiri, a group of about 15
gunmen raided the Malamandi village of Hindi and started shooting at residents.

Kenya has suffered a spate of gun and explosive attacks since deploying its
troops to Somalia in October 2011, in an attempt to try and suppress the
al-Shabab militants.

Al-Shabab claimed responsibility for an attack last month on the town of
Mpeketoni on the Kenyan coast and another attack the following day on a nearby
village.

AP

LOAD-DATE: July 6, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBI


           Copyright 2014 Independent Digital News and Media Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              218 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                   MailOnline

                        July 6, 2014 Sunday 5:03 PM GMT

29 people killed in overnight attacks by terror group al-Shabab who raided
village taking aim at residents and targeted police station

BYLINE: DAMIEN GAYLE and AGENCIES

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 928 words



     ·    WARNING: GRAPHIC CONTENT
     ·    Twenty killed in Gamba, where militants raided a police station
     ·    Another nine were killed in Hindi, in the neighbouring county
     ·    Three people taken to hospital with injuries from the attacks
     ·    Al-Shabab are the group behind last year's Westgate mall massacre
     ·    Its military spokesman in Somalia claims responsibility for attacks
     ·    But there are also claims attacks were mounted by Kenyan groups


Gunmen fired indiscriminately at homes, burned down a church and raided a police
station in two attacks on Kenyan coastal towns overnight, killing at least 29
people.

Twenty of the victims were killed in an attack in the Gamba area of Tana River
county, where gunmen rushed the police station and freed suspected al-Shabab
militants.

Another nine were killed in a separate raid at the Hindi trading centre in
neighbouring Lamu county, near the town of Mpeketoni where 65 people were killed
last month.

Scroll down for video

The Somali Islamist militant group al-Shabab, which last September attacked the
Westgate shopping mall in Nairobi, the Kenyan capital, claimed responsibility
for the attacks.

Mwenda Njoka, a spokesman for the interior ministry, told Reuters: 'There were
two attacks in Lamu and Tana River last night. In Lamu we have nine people dead
and in Tana River we have 20. The number could rise.'

Sheikh Abdiasis Abu Musab, al Shabaab's military operations spokesman, told
Reuters in Mogadishu that the Somali group was behind both attacks on Saturday
night.

It had also said it was responsible for the June raids in Lamu County, around
Mpeketoni.

But President Uhuru Kenyatta dismissed al-Shabab's claim last month and blamed
local politicians, stoking an already fierce row with the opposition, which
denied any role.

Regardless of who is blamed this time, the violence will hammer an already
beleaguered tourist industry that has been hit by a wave of militant attacks.

And they will deepen public frustrations about poor security in Kenya a day
before a big opposition rally is planned for the capital.

At a news conference, police deputy inspector general Grace Kaindi said a
blackboard, ripped out of a school, was found at a junction near Hindi with
scrawling that could implicate the coastal separatist group, the Mombasa
Republic Movement (MRC).

'At first we thought it was al Shabaab, but now it is turning out that it is MRC
as they have put it there clearly,' she said, adding other scribbled phrases
seemed to back opposition leader Raila Odinga.

Slogans included 'MRC - You are sleeping,' 'Muslims your land is being grabbed',
'Raila is adequate' and 'Uhuru down'.

The MRC swiftly denied any role. 'The government should stop using us as a
scapegoat,' Randu Nzai Ruwa, the MRC Secretary General, told Reuters by
telephone.

Officials said a group of 10-15 men struck at Hindi, situated nine miles from
the town of Lamu, and close to the town of Mpeketoni, which was nearly destroyed
in one of the attacks in June, at about 10 pm on Saturday.

'They went around shooting at people and villages indiscriminately,' Abdallah
Shahasi, the area chief, told Reuters.

Al-Shabab announced that at the same time it had broken into the police station
at Gamba and freed suspects from the detention cells. A Kenyan police source,
who asked not to be named, corroborated that account.

He told Reuters: 'They killed some of our colleagues and freed Muslim detainees.
Some of those freed were linked to the Mpeketoni attacks two weeks ago.

'We still don't know how many detainees were freed until we verify with
registers at the station.'

A senior police source who also asked to remain anonymous told the Associated
Press that the nine victims of the raid included five inmates said to be
non-Muslim. He said three other inmates escaped with the gunmen.

The officer said the gunmen got to the police station by car-jacking a truck and
killing its three occupants. Five police officers were wounded in the attack and
one officer was killed, he said.

Miiri Njenga, the Lamu county commissioner, said the attackers targeted
government offices and some properties, including a church, were burned down.

Lamu County police chief Ephantus Kariuki said victims were shot in the head
with their hands bound.

'It seems the attacks are more associated with land disputes and resources,' he
told Reuters, speaking of a region where rival ethnic groups have long rowed
over land ownership.

The Kenyan Red Cross said three people were taken to hospital with injuries,
from both areas, adding another one was reported missing in Gamba.

Militant attacks on the coast have fanned an already tense political atmosphere
in Kenya, which has sent troops to join African troops battling al-Shabab in
neighbouring Somalia.

Veteran opposition leader Odinga, defeated by Kenyatta in last year's election,
has held rallies over the past month criticising the government over frequent
militant attacks.

Kenyatta stepped into an already heated debate by accusing local politicians of
being behind strikes on Mpeketoni. Opponents saw his statement as fingering
Odinga, who has promised a major rally on Monday in Nairobi.

Religious leaders have urged Kenyans to avoid rallies that could deepen
divisions in a nation scarred by political violence in the recent past.
Political allegiances in Kenya tend to follow ethnic lines.

The nation is haunted by the 2007 presidential election, when 1,200 died in
weeks of ethnic blood-letting - over which Kenyatta still faces trial at The
Hague this year for crimes against humanity.

However, last year's vote went off calmly.

LOAD-DATE: July 6, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDM


                   Copyright 2014 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              219 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                 Alliance News

                        July 7, 2014 Monday 05:41 AM GMT

More than 50 Boko Haram terrorists killed in Nigerian attack

LENGTH: 111 words


Abuja (Alliance News) - The Nigerian military repelled an attack by terrorist
group Boko Haram on a base in northern Nigeria, killing 50 militants, local
newspaper Premium Times reported Saturday.

At least six soldiers, including a high-ranking officer, were also killed when
Boko Haram stormed the base in Damboa in Borno state while most of the soldiers
and police were out on patrol late Friday.

The newspaper Vanguard reported at least 70 people were killed in the fighting.

Boko Haram, which launched its insurgency against the government in 2009 with
the aim of creating an Islamic state in Nigeria, has killed more than 2,000
people this year alone.

Copyright dpa

LOAD-DATE: July 7, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication


                      Copyright 2014 Alliance News Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              220 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                               dailyrecord.co.uk

                        July 7, 2014 Monday 11:28 AM GMT

Great white shark attack swimmer tells of terror at coming 'eyeball to eyeball'
with beast;
New pictures show bloody scars where it sank its teeth into the victim who
survived by punching it on the nose

BYLINE: By Phil Booth

SECTION: NEWS,WORLD NEWS

LENGTH: 383 words


shark attack

A swimmer who survived a great white attack by punching it in the nose has told
of his terror at coming "eyeball to eyeball" with the beast.

Steven Robles was with 15 long-distance swimmers when the seven foot long shark
attacked, biting him in the ribs, back and right arm.

New pictures show the cuts and puncture wounds he suffered in the attack, with
his blood turning the sea red.

The 40-year-old said: "I was staring at the shark face-to-face, looking at his
eyeballs as he bit right into me.

"He just swam right at me and when he lunged into my chest, I could feel his
whole body vibrating.

"It happened so quick. For just a second I thought this was it. I was very
scared. It was burning pain.

"I had enough sense to use my right hand to grab its nose and pry the fish's
teeth off my side torso area.

"I immediately started screaming, and about three swimmers who were five strokes
behind me came up and helped me get to shore.

"A paddler showed up and got me on his longboard and paramedics and lifeguards
were waiting.

"Fortunately the bite didn't go into any organs and I didn't crack any ribs. I'm
very thankful I'm alive. This is Day One of a new life."

The swimmer was training for long distance events when he was attacked off
Manhattan beach, near Los Angeles.

Great White Shark attack

The shark had been hooked by a fisherman when the swimmers crossed its path.
Witnesses said it had been thrashing on a line for nearly an hour, and panicked,
leading to the attack.

A video captures Mr Robles' cries of pain as others shout "shark" and try to
usher people out of the water.

"It's already bit someone," somebody else is heard saying.

Casey Fenwick, a surfer in the water nearby, said: "There was blood everywhere
and I realised that something had got him. He was screaming the whole time and I
understand why."

Mr Robles was treated on the beach before being rushed to hospital. He received
numerous stitches on his chest and thumb where the shark tore through an artery
before being allowed home.

After the attack, police closed off two miles of Manhattan Beach. The fishing
line was cut and the shark was ushered further out to sea.

Although fishing is permitted all year, fishing for sharks is prohibited in
California. Shark sightings are reportedly on the rise on some of its beaches.

LOAD-DATE: August 28, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDAR


                      Copyright 2014 Trinity Mirror, Plc.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              221 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                   MailOnline

                        July 7, 2014 Monday 3:59 PM GMT

Tears for the 52: Survivors and relatives pay tribute to those who died in 7/7
terror attacks 9 years ago just hours after vandals daubed graffiti on victims'
monument

BYLINE: RICHARD SPILLETT

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 1100 words



     ·    Families and survivors gather to remember those who died the bombings
     ·    Minute's silence held at memorial before names of the deceased read
          out
     ·    7/7 site was vandalised overnight with '4innocent Muslims' painted on
          it
     ·    Park workers moved in to remove the slogans early this morning
     ·    Relatives of victims hit out at vandals but say they'll 'not be
          beaten'


Relatives of those killed in the July 7 bombings joined survivors for an
emotional ceremony to remember the 52 people who died nine years ago today.

A minute's silence was held at the 7/7 memorial in London's Hyde Park this
lunchtime before the name of each of those killed in the terror attacks was read
out.

More than 150 people attended the service and sent a defiant message to the
vandals who defaced the memorial in the early of hours of this morning.

Scroll down for video

The memorial's stainless steel columns had been daubed with red and black
slogans overnight with the messages '4Innocent Muslims', 'Blair Lied Thousands
Died' and 'J7 Truth'.

But, after park workers moved in to quickly clean up the spray paint, families
arrived to remember their loved ones.

Four suicide bombers detonated rucksack devices in four locations in the capital
on the morning of July 7 2005, killing the 52 and injuring hundreds of others,
some seriously.

Remembering the attacks, Del Penberthy, duty manager at Edgware Road tube
station where one of the bombs went off, said today: 'It was the worst day of my
life.

'And the next week, and two weeks, and so on. But the response of everybody was
amazing, as it was said in the speeches, off-duty staff, cleaners and everybody
stopped their lunches, or whatever, to try and help out.

'I was one of the first down there and at first I thought it had derailed but as
we got down there you could smell something like gun powder in the air. It was
dark, and smoky but we tried to the best of our abilities to help out.'

Many who attended said they would not be bowed by the actions of vandals who had
tried to ruin the event by covering the memorial in graffiti last night.

Elizabeth Nicholson, whose sister, Jennifer, was killed in the Edgware Road
bomb, said the event was a means for people to 'show their love' for the victims
and she had no interest in the apparent graffiti protest.

'I have no interest in dwelling on it (the vandalism) it is not something I
consider to be important. I am here for my sister, I want to celebrate her,' she
said at the ceremony.

'She was very beautiful, vivacious, and full of life. She had a smile that if
she walked into a room, it would light it up. She was such a beautiful human
being. It feels like part of me has been ripped away.

'It is something that does not change, it is not a feeling that diminishes with
time, it becomes part of your life.'

Mick Ellis, deputy assistant commissioner of the London Fire Brigade, added: 'It
is a travesty that somebody tried to turn a memorial into a political event, it
is not about politics it is about remembering.

'But Transport for London, Royal Parks, and the Met police have done a fantastic
job of cleaning it up.

'I think the message is that we all had the terrible experience of July 7 and
then the next attacks just weeks later. But we got through it, and like today it
shows that London will not be beaten.'

Ros Morley, whose 52-year-old husband Colin died when the bomb went off at
Edgware Road, told of her sadness at the vandalism, but said she would not let
it affect her.

She said: 'It is sad that someone could stoop so low, to damage something that
represents such a tragic event in the history of London.

'People have to pay their respects, so they (the culprits) should have thought
before they acted in a terrible way.'

'I won't let it affect me, I'm looking past that, someone acted in a thoughtless
way. I would say to the person who did this to think before they act. I would
like them to think how they would feel if they were going to pay their respects
to a loved one?'

A spokeswoman for the Royal Parks said the slogans had been removed after they
were discovered early this morning by the park's manager.

She said: 'We found it this morning. It has now been removed and the memorial
can go ahead as planned. Obviously, we are very disappointed.'

John Falding, whose partner Anat Rosenberg, a 39-year-old charity worker, was
killed in the Tavistock Square bus bomb, also condemned the vandalism.

He said: 'It is quite shocking, whoever did it was aiming for publicity and to
cause maximum grief.'

He said he would not be attending the event today but would be observing the
anniversary privately.

The monument honouring the 52 dead in the attack on London's transport system in
2005 cost nearly £1 million and has 52 stainless steel columns, which are 11.5ft
tall.

It was unveiled in 2009 at a memorial attended by the Prince of Wales, the then
Prime Minister Gordon Brown and other political leaders.

The columns are grouped together in four clusters, reflecting the separate
locations of the bombings - Tavistock Square, Edgware Road, King's Cross and
Aldgate.

A ceremony took place at the memorial at midday today when survivors of the four
blasts as well as those who went to help them spoke to those gathered.

A minute's silence was held before the names of each of the 52 people who died
were read out. Floral tributes were also laid at the memorial.

A spokesman for ceremony organisers,The Tim Parry Johnathan Ball Foundation for
Peace, said: 'It's disappointing that someone felt like they had to do this but
everyone has rallied around to get it cleared up and that's what London's about.

'This is a day for the families and the survivors and we are pleased that it's
still able to go ahead.'

The Mayor of London, Boris Johnson, added: 'I am shocked and saddened by this
incident. It is completely unacceptable and the Metropolitan police is already
investigating.

'I am pleased that the graffiti has been removed so quickly and that today's
commemoration ceremony can go ahead as planned.'

He added: 'The focus today should be, and indeed will be, on honouring the 52
innocent people who died on 7/7, the survivors and all those affected by the
terrible events of nine years ago.'

Police said they have begun investigations into the vandalism and are examining
CCTV footage.

A Scotland Yard spokesman said: 'The 7/7 memorial was vandalised in the early
hours of the morning. Words were graffitied on to it. No arrests have been made
and police are making inquiries.'

The suicide bombings were carried out by Hasib Hussain, Mohammad Sidique Khan,
Jermaine Lindsay, Shehzad Tanweer who all died.

LOAD-DATE: July 7, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDM


                   Copyright 2014 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              222 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                  mirror.co.uk

                        July 7, 2014 Monday 4:40 PM GMT

Over 60 abducted girls escape Boko Haram captors while terrorists attack
military barracks;
The hostages were left unguarded two weeks after being seized from their village
by extremists, who have also taken 200 schoolgirls captive

BYLINE: By Phil Booth

SECTION: NEWS,WORLD NEWS

LENGTH: 297 words


More than 60 girls and women abducted by Islamic extremists in Nigeria two weeks
ago have escaped.

Reports say 63 managed to flee while their captors were engaged in a battle with
soldiers as they attacked a military barracks and police headquarters in Damboa
town.

The hostages were seized from the Kummabza village in northern Borno last month
after it was invaded by Boko Haram insurgents. They killed 30 men and burned the
village.

The same group is believed to be holding more than 200 schoolgirls abducted from
the town of Chibok in April in a case which has sparked international outrage.

Bukar Kyari, a vigilante fighting Boko Haram, said the escape happened when
soldiers had overwhelmed the insurgents, forcing them to send in reinforcements
who had been guarding the women.

"The women seized that rare opportunity to escape when they realised they were
alone in the camp. But we still have five women missing."

Boko Haram video

Small-scale kidnappings by Boko Haram extremists had been going on for months
before they drew international condemnation over the abductions of more than 200
girls from a school in Chibok on April 15.

Some 219 of those girls still are missing. The government and military failure
to rescue them has attracted criticism at home and abroad.

A pop singer offered her virginity to Boko Haram in exchange for the girls.

Adokiye, 23, who is also a UN peace ambassador, said she wishes she could swap
herself for the captives.

She is the latest celebrity to join the campaign demanding the release of the
teenagers.

The Bring Back Our Girls  campaign is backed by big names such as US First Lady
Michelle Obama and Hollywood actress Angelina Jolie.

The hardline Islamists have said they grabbed the girls from their school to
sell as wives or to use as sex slaves.

LOAD-DATE: September 5, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDMI


                      Copyright 2014 Trinity Mirror, Plc.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              223 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring Middle East - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                              July 8, 2014 Tuesday

Yemeni government condemns terror attack on Al-Wadiah port

LENGTH: 271 words


Text of report in English by state-run Yemeni news agency Saba website

Sana'a: The government on Sunday [6 July] condemned the terrorist attack on the
border Al-Wadiah port in Hadramawt Province last Friday.

A suicide bomber carried out on Friday a car bomb attack on the Al-Wadiah port
in Hadramout at the border with Saudi Arabi, killing a Yemeni soldier and
wounding another.

As well, the government condemned the terrorist attacks on the reception
building of the Saudi General Directorate of Investigation and a Saudi security
patrol near Al-Wadi'ah port in Saudi province of Sharourah, which resulted in
the killing of the patrol's commander.

In a statement to Saba, an official source at the Foreign Ministry expressed the
solidarity of Yemeni people and government with the people and government of
Saudi Arabia in facing such terrorist acts that aim to undermine the security of
the two countries.

The source expressed the hope for the continuation of the cooperation and
support of the brotherly and friendly countries to enable Yemen to face the
security and economic challenges, topped by the terror that threatens the
security and stability of the region and the international security and peace.

The source confirmed ,at the same time, Yemen's keenness to develop the
bilateral relations with the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia in all fields, forefront of
which is the joint cooperation in combating terrorism.

The source expressed the Yemeni government's condolences to the families of the
Yemeni and Saudi victims due to these terrorist operations.

BA

Source: Yemen News Agency Saba website, Sanaa, in English 2050 gmt 6 Jul 14

LOAD-DATE: July 8, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2014 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              224 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                       BBC Monitoring Africa - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                              July 8, 2014 Tuesday

Tanzanian police allay fears of terror attack

LENGTH: 490 words


Text of report by Jimmy Lwangili entitled "Police allay terror attack fears"
published by Tanzanian newspaper Daily News website on 8 July

Police have assured Tanzanians of their safety, urging the people to continue
with their daily activities without being worried by escalating terrorism
incidents in neighbouring Kenya.

They have, however, asked the people to remain vigilant and report any
suspicious persons to relevant authorities for appropriate security measures.

The Director of Criminal Investigations (DCI), Mr Isaya Mngulu, told the 'Daily
News' in Dar es Salaam on the wake of a series of deadly attacks in Kenya and
said the Tanzanian police were keenly following up the terrorist incidents in
Kenya ''while intensifying safety and security measures within our borders.''

Kenya has in recent days experienced a series of terrorist attacks that have
claimed hundreds of innocent lives. According to Mr Mngulu, the Kenyan attacks
have direct and indirect threats to the people in neighbouring countries and the
East African Community (EAC) as a whole.

"Let me use this opportunity to ask all members of the public to collaborate
with the police by giving information when they come into contact with anyone
they will suspect of not being a good person. They should also inform the local
government when they get visitors from outside the country," he said.

The DCI further reminded that defence and security of the country is not the
responsibility of the police alone, but of all citizens, "So fighting against
any kind of crime is the responsibility of us all."

According to a random survey by the 'Daily News' in the city on Monday [7 July],
Dar es Salaam residents are worried of their security as a result of the deadly
attacks in Kenya, especially along the coast.

A resident of Dar es Salaam, Mr Ray Heri, said the frequent deadly raids in
Kenya have given rise to fear among Tanzanians, because there is the possibility
of terrorists crossing the borders and carrying out attacks, bearing in mind
that Kenya is a neighbouring country.

"Although I have faith in the security of our country, there have been occasions
in which explosions have occurred in such places as Arusha and Zanzibar.

Security should be strengthened at our borders," Mr Heri implored. On his side,
one Claud Lyapua, a businessman and resident of Dar es Salaam, said these
incidents have threatened all countries in the east African region, urging both
the police and members of the public to be on constant alert because terrorists
prefer and target crowded areas to cause more harm.

Mr Lyapua further noted that the events were also affecting economic activities
among the EAC partner states, disrupting economic activities.

"We should be more careful against preaching politics of hatred that could lead
to a situation similar to that of Kenya, said one Bakari Issare, an entrepreneur
in the city.

Source: Daily News website, Dar es Salaam, in English 8 Jul 14

LOAD-DATE: July 8, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2014 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              225 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                       BBC Monitoring Africa - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                              July 8, 2014 Tuesday

Suspected terrorists attack military posts in Nigeria's Borno State 4 July

LENGTH: 477 words


Text of report by private Nigerian newspaper The Guardian website on 5 July

[Report by Njadvara Musa: "20 Soldiers, Policemen, Others Killed in Fresh
Attacks"]

As violence continues in Borno State, gunmen suspected to be members of Boko
Haram attacked the Damboa 33 Armoured Brigade, a divisional police station and
other military posts with Improvised Explosive Devices (IEDs) and grenades,
Friday [4 July], killing nine soldiers, five policemen (including field
commanders of affected posts) among others.

Damboa is at the fringe of Sambisa Forest, and 87 kilometres south of Maiduguri,
the state capital.

The attacks on Damboa and police station, according to an eyewitness, Isa
Yahaya, commenced at 7.30 when gunmen in a convoy of over two dozens of Toyota

Hilux vehicles and motorcycles stormed the military brigade and a police station
and killed nine soldiers and five policemen. Those who were not affected took
cover at military posts before the Nigerian Air Force (NAF) fighter jet arrives
to provide support to the soldiers on ground combat the insurgents.

"We were shocked and terrified when the Boko Haram gunmen showed up from the
forest and started killing soldiers along with policemen in this town. The
reports we are getting from some of our people that survived the Friday night
attack that led to the killing of five of our local residents that supported the
Civilian Joint Task Force (CJTF) in the multiple clashes with insurgents
indicates that the gunmen also carted away arms and ammunition of the military
to an unknown location," said Yahaya.

He said the fighter jet could not killed all the insurgents, as the pilot did
not want to cause more civilian casualties, adding that scores of gunmen on
motorcycles fleeing Damboa after the two-hour clashes were also killed alongside
five other residents.

The Borno State Police Public Relations Officer (PPRO), Gideon Jibrin, confirmed
the Damboa attacks, saying he could not give the exact number of casualties.

Speaking via telephone in Maiduguri, Sen. Mohammed Ali Ndume, who represents
Borno South Senatorial District, said: "The attacks on military and police
formations in Damboa happened shortly after breaking of fasting.

One of the CJTF members in Damboa called to inform me that many people and
soldiers were killed, including dozens of insurgents."

The Guardian also learnt that the 187-kilometre Maiduguri-Damboa-Biu Road was
condoned off by the military as at yesterday to checkmate further attacks.

Also, a bomb exploded from a pickup van at a police checkpoint at Konduga
Maiduguri, killing five people on the spot and injuring 19 others. The incident
occurred three days after at similar blast at the Maiduguri Monday Market (MMM)
that killed 17.

Konduga is located on the Maiduguri-Bama Road, 40 kilometres east of the state
capital.

Source: The Guardian website, Lagos, in English 5 Jul 14

LOAD-DATE: July 8, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2014 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              226 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                          China Daily European Edition

                              July 8, 2014 Tuesday

Online videos help to spur terror attacks

BYLINE: Cao Yin

SECTION: COVER STORY

LENGTH: 336 words


Ekrem Usman recalled in subdued tones how members of his terror cell were
whipped into a frenzy to carry out a violent attack last year in Lukqun, the
Xinjiang Uygur autonomous region.

"Before the attack, we watched some videos that asked us to launch jihad," said
the cell's leader, who was sentenced to 25 years in prison in September for
membership in a terror organization, homicide and arson.

Rubbing his handcuffed hands, he confirmed he watched online videos repeatedly,
sometimes with three or four others.

"I was excited after watching the videos. I was thirsty for jihad," he said,
adding he even downloaded the video materials onto his mobile phone.

Like Usman, all of the terrorists had watched similar videos and listened to
audio materials on the Internet before they committed brutal terror attacks, the
State Internet Information Office said in June.

The SIIO aims to root out terror-related video and audio products online within
six months with the cooperation of the Ministry of Public Security and Internet
or technology giants such as Sina and Tencent.

Meanwhile, in a 24-minute documentary, made by the SIIO and China Central
Television, anti-terrorism experts and police also said that online videos about
the East Turkistan Islamic Movement had been a catalyst in a series of attacks
since last year.

"How to strengthen the anti-terrorism fight via the Internet has become a major
topic not only in China, but also across the world," said specialist Li Wei, who
is an anti-terrorism researcher at the China Institutes of Contemporary
International Relations and has issued several papers globally on how to tackle
the scourge of terror.

International agreements, communication channels, and cooperation are vital in
the campaign to tackle terrorism, he said.

Terror groups are no strangers to putting footage of their atrocities on the
Internet but it is possible that they could, one day, use the actual web to
conduct terror attacks, such as disabling power plants or causing travel mayhem,
Li added.


LOAD-DATE: July 8, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2014 China Daily Information Co
                              All Rights Reserved

                              227 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                                  Daily Mirror

                              July 8, 2014 Tuesday
                                   Edition 1;
                                Northern Ireland

Vandals add to the 7/7 agony;
Memorial daubed with graffiti on terror attacks anniversary

BYLINE: ADRIAN SHAW

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 295 words


THE memorial for victims of the 7/7 bombings was defaced with graffiti yesterday
hours before a service for the ninth anniversary of the atrocity.

Red and black slogans reading "4Innocent Muslims" and "Blair lied thousands
died" were daubed on the stainless steel columns in Hyde Park, Central London.

John Falding, whose partner Anat Rosenberg, 39, died in the Tavistock Square bus
bomb, said: "It is quite shocking. Whoever did it was aiming for publicity and
to cause maximum grief."

Royal Parks and Transport for London staff managed to remove the graffiti and
the poignant ceremony went ahead as planned.

But Ros Morley, whose husband Colin, 52, was killed by the Edgware Road Tube
bombing, said: "It is sad that someone could stoop so low, to damage something
that represents such a tragic event in London's history.

"People have to pay their respects, so they should have thought before they
acted in a terrible way.

"I would like them to think how they would feel if they were paying their
respects to a loved one?" Fifty two people died in July 2005 at Tavistock
Square, Edgware Road, King's Cross and Aldgate when four suicide bombers
attacked three Tube trains and a bus.

The memorial was unveiled five years ago and the 52 columns - one for each
victim - are grouped in four clusters to reflect the separate locations of the
bombs.

Scotland Yard said police were investigating the incident, which was spotted in
the early hours. It is being treated as criminal damage.

The Tim Parry Johnathan Ball Foundation for Peace, which organised the memorial,
said: "Yesterday was about the families and the survivors. We are disappointed
the vandalism happened."

Prime Minister David Cameron "unreservedly" condemned the attack and sent a
floral tribute.

adrian.shaw@mirror.co.uk

LOAD-DATE: July 8, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: NO RESPECT Slogans on 7/7 memorial in Hyde Park yesterday
SORROW The ceremony. Right, bombed bus
CLEAN-UP Staff use a power sprayer to remove the graffiti

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DMR


                            Copyright 2014 MGN Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              228 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                        The Huddersfield Daily Examiner

                              July 8, 2014 Tuesday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

Attack on memorial to 52 terror bomb victims;
Clean-up needed before anniversary

BYLINE: Neil Atkinson

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 341 words


THE memorial commemorating the victims of the July 7 bombings on London was
defaced just hours before survivors and bereaved families gathered to
commemorate the ninth anniversary of the attacks.

The stainless steel columns of the memorial in Hyde Park, central London, were
daubed with red and black slogans overnight with the messages "4Innocent
Muslims" "Blair Lied Thousands Died" and "J7 Truth".

A spokeswoman for the Royal Parks said the slogans had now been removed after
they were discovered early yesterday morning by the park's manager. She said:
"We found it this morning. It has now been removed and the memorial can go ahead
as planned. Obviously, we are very disappointed."

A picture posted on Twitter by broadcast journalist James Banks, for London
Live, showed the full extent of the defacement.

The monument honouring the 52 dead in the attack on London's transport system in
2005 cost nearly £1 million and has 52 stainless steel columns, or stelae,
11.5ft (3.5m) tall.

It was unveiled in 2009 at a memorial attended by the Prince of Wales, the then
Prime Minister Gordon Brown and other political leaders.

The columns are grouped together in four clusters, reflecting the separate
locations of the bombings - Tavistock Square, Edgware Road, King's Cross and
Aldgate.

Four suicide bombers from West Yorkshire detonated their rucksack devices near
these locations on the morning of July 7 2005, killing the 52 and injuring
hundreds of others, some seriously.

The bombers included former Rawthorpe High School student Jermaine Lindsay and
Dewsbury man Mohammed Siddique Khan.

Lindsay's former wife Samantha Lewthwaite is now officially one of the world's
most wanted woman, having been blamed for a series of terrorist atrocities in
East Africa.

The Mayor of London, Boris Johnson, said: "I am shocked and saddened by this
incident. It is completely unacceptable and the Metropolitan police is already
investigating. I am pleased that the graffiti has been removed so quickly and
that today's commemoration ceremony can go ahead as planned."

LOAD-DATE: July 8, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: The memorial in Hyde Park, London, after it was defaced just hours
before ¦bereaved families gathered there 41210643 JAMES BANKS/LONDON LIVE

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: HDE


                           Copyright 2014 MGN Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              229 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                   MailOnline

                        July 8, 2014 Tuesday 3:07 PM GMT

British men admit preparing terrorist attacks

BYLINE: ASSOCIATED PRESS

SECTION: AP

LENGTH: 247 words


LONDON (AP) - Two British men who joined anti-government militants in Syria
pleaded guilty Tuesday to preparing acts of terrorism.

Friends Mohammed Nahin Ahmed and Yusuf Zubair Sarwar, who are both 22, spent
eight months in the war-torn country last year after contacting jihadi militants
over the Internet. They were arrested at Heathrow Airport when they returned in
January. Police found photos of the pair with guns on a digital camera, as well
as traces of military explosives on their clothing and shoes.

Judge Michael Topolski said the men "carefully planned a journey from the U.K.
to Turkey and on to Syria to join Islamist rebels fighting the regime of Bashar
al-Assad." They will be sentenced at a later date.

Authorities say hundreds of Britons have traveled to Syria and fought alongside
extremist militants. Intelligence officials fear some may bring terrorism back
to Britain when they return.

In a separate case, a British woman went on trial Tuesday accused of trying to
smuggle 20,000 euros ($27,200) in her underwear to militants fighting in Syria.

Prosecutors say 26-year-old Nawal Msaad from north London had agreed to be a
courier for her friend and co-defendant, Amal el-Wahabi, 27.

Prosecutors say el-Wahabi's husband, who is believed to be fighting in Syria,
wanted the money to be taken to Turkey to support the jihadi fighters.

Police arrested Msaad at Heathrow Airport in January as she was preparing to
board a flight to Turkey. El-Wahabi was arrested the same day.

LOAD-DATE: July 8, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDM


                   Copyright 2014 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              230 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                          manchestereveningnews.co.uk

                        July 8, 2014 Tuesday 2:19 PM GMT

Passengers flying to USA could have mobile phones confiscated unless they are
fully charged;
Security at Manchester Airport has been stepped up amid fears terror groups
could be poised to attack commercial airliners using an electronic device as a
bomb

BYLINE: By Trevor Baxter

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 449 words


US-bound passengers flying from Manchester Airport are being warned they could
have their mobile phones confiscated unless they are fully charged over new
terrorism fears.

Security at all UK airports is being stepped up amid fears terror groups could
be poised to attack commercial airliners.

Security officials in the United States are concerned a mobile phone, laptop,
tablet or other electronic device could be used as a bomb.

Now passengers flying from Manchester are being urged to ensure all mobile
phones and electronic devices are fully charged before boarding flights.

If they refuse to comply they could have their devices confiscated or even be
banned from travelling.

With school summer holidays starting in a few weeks, the airport is gearing up
for its busiest time of the year.

The new regulations could lead to delays at security though airport chiefs have
not issued any specific guidelines.

And there is no suggestion at the moment the stringent new checks, initiated by
the US Transportation Security Administration, will apply to destinations other
than the US.

An airport spokesman said passengers with any issues regarding the new
guidelines should contact the airlines rather than the airport.

But they have issued a statement saying: "We continue to ask passengers to allow
plenty of time to complete their airport journey, especially during these busier
summer months and to work with our security staff who are on hand to offer
advice with regards to the new aviation security changes in operation.

"If you're flying to the USA please ensure electrical devices are charged and
capable of being switched on.

"Any passengers with specific queries about their individual flight should check
with their airline for more detailed information."

Virgin Atlantic are one of the busiest carriers of seven airlines flying to the
US that operate out of Manchester.

A spokesman told the MEN: "Whilst Virgin Atlantic does not disclose specific
security details, our arrangements are constant review and can be adapted at
short notice should there be a need to do so. Virgin Atlantic fully complies
with all government aviation security arrangements."

The other direct carriers are Delta, United Airlines, American Airlines, US
Airways, Thomson and Thomas Cook.

US officials are believed to have singled out particular smartphones, including
the Apple iPhone and Samsung Galaxy, for security screening.

More news from the Manchester Evening News

Find out what's happening where you live with our In Your Area section

Read the Manchester Evening News on your phone - download the Apple MEN App
here  , the Android MEN App   here   - and get the paper as an e-edition every
morning    by subscribing here

LOAD-DATE: September 5, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBGMWNGMANC


                      Copyright 2014 Trinity Mirror, Plc.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              231 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring Middle East - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                             July 10, 2014 Thursday

Israel attacks 320 "terrorist targets" in Gaza overnight

LENGTH: 248 words


Text of report by Israeli public radio station Voice of Israel Network B on 10
July

Overnight, the IDF raided 320 terrorist targets in the Gaza Strip, including 58
terrorist tunnels, 217 underground rocket launchers, and Palestinian
command-and-control facilities. A senior military source said that hundreds of
facilities have been raided since the beginning of Operation Protective Edge,
while 1,450 targets were struck during the entire Operation Pillar of Defence.

Our army affairs correspondent Karmela Menashe reports that the IDF has
intensified the pace of the raids, and a total of 780 terrorist targets have
been raided so far. Since the beginning of the escalation in the south, 234
rockets have landed in Israeli territory, of which 61 were shot down.

The Iron Dome system intercepted a rocket fired at Ashqelon overnight. Three
other rockets fell in open areas. Earlier the system shot down two rockets
directed at Beersheba; nobody was hurt. Before midnight, a barrage of 20 rockets
was fired at the Lakhish district and the Be'er Tuvya Regional Council. One
rocket hit a car and damaged it, six rockets were shot down, and the rest
exploded in open areas.

IDF Spokesman Moti Almoz said that the IDF still has thousands of targets
approved for action on the table. According to him, over 10,000 reservists have
been called up so far, and the Israeli public must prepare for an operation that
will last a long time.

Source: Voice of Israel, Jerusalem, in Hebrew 0400 gmt 10 Jul 14

LOAD-DATE: July 10, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2014 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              232 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                               Independent.co.uk

                        July 11, 2014 Friday 6:45 PM GMT

Israel-Gaza conflict: Israel bids to 'dismantle Hamas terror machine' as attack
plans harden;
Ground offensive gains support after cross-border rocket launches continue for a
fourth day

BYLINE: Ben Lynfield

SECTION: FRONTPAGE

LENGTH: 898 words


Israel expanded the goal of its operation in Gaza from halting rocket fire to
"dismantling" the military capability of Hamas, as the notion of a ground
incursion into the coastal enclave gained greater political support.

The change in terminology could point the way towards Israel's first ground
offensive in Gaza since the devastating Operation Cast Lead in 2009, as military
and political leaders realise the limits of the current campaign of air and sea
strikes and its apparent inability to halt cross-border rocket launches by
Hamas.

For the moment, Israel has given no sign it is considering diplomacy as a
possible means to stop the rockets. "Over the last few years Hamas built up a
formidable military terrorist machine and we are now taking steps to dismantle
that," said Mark Regev, the spokesman for the Prime Minister, Benjamin
Netanyahu.

Asked about an increasingly prevalent view that this is impossible without a
ground operation, Mr Regev replied: "That could be correct."

In pictures: Israel launches further air strikes on Gaza

Mr Netanyahu himself, asked later about a ground offensive, responded: "We are
weighing all the possibilities and preparing for all the possibilities. My
supreme consideration is to restore quiet to the citizens of Israel and I will
do what is necessary to reach this goal. Hamas continues its attacks as you see
and hear. When Hamas fights us, we fight it." Mr Netanyahu added that "no
international pressure will prevent us from acting".

A ground operation could spell disaster for Gaza residents and it would be a
high risk move by Israel, exposing it to casualties among its troops, fuelling
international condemnation and pressure over heavy Palestinian losses.

The US has said it opposes a ground operation though it has also repeatedly
voiced support for Israel's right to defend itself against the rockets. Middle
East envoy Tony Blair yesterday said the situation was at a "very critical
point".

Militant groups kept up their rocket barrages on Israel for a fourth day
yesterday, sending Israelis scurrying for cover in Tel Aviv and the south. One
rocket struck a fuel tanker in Ashdod, 22 miles south of Tel Aviv, wounding six
people and causing a large fire.

Calls from the political right for a ground offensive were reinforced yesterday
by Nachman Shai, a legislator from the centre-left Labour party. "A ground
offensive may be needed militarily to stop the rockets and look for weapons
depots and break the psychological barrier in which Hamas thinks that Israel
doesn't dare go in," Mr Shai told The Independent. "If it will not lead to
Israel's staying in Gaza forever I wouldn't exclude it. It should be limited in
time, range and scope. Once the aerial operation exerts itself I think it should
be ground and air at the same time. I think we should move quickly to a ground
operation."

Israeli spokesman Lt-Col Peter Lerner said yesterday that the airforce continued
its "mission to strike Hamas operatives, military infrastructure, capabilities
and tunnels". Meanwhile, the number of civilian fatalities in Gaza continued to
increase, the vast majority of whom were civilians, according to Gaza human
rights groups.

Two rockets were also fired into Israel from Lebanon, security sources there
told Reuters, raising the prospect that Israel's northern front could become
volatile. Israel responded with artillery fire. Three rockets from Gaza were
intercepted over the Tel Aviv area by Israel's Iron Dome aerial defence system.
The military wing of Hamas warned airlines against flying to Ben Gurion airport,
which was "one of our targets today because it also hosts a military air base".

But partly due to the Iron Dome system, there has not yet been a single fatality
in Israel. "The difference between us is simple, we develop defensive systems
against missiles to protect our civilians and they use their civilians to
protect their missiles," said Mr Netanyahu last night.

"And this is the entire difference: they fire indiscriminately at our civilians
and our cities in order to attack them. Sometimes they hit soldiers by mistake.
We strike at their armed forces and sometimes we hit civilians by mistake."

Meanwhile, Hamas's website yesterday ran an article claiming there were
casualties in "occupied Tel Aviv" from shelling on Wednesday, that a "condition
of fright" pervades the Israeli city and that "despair is spreading in the ranks
of the occupation police". In reality, however, there were no casualties and the
cafés were full.

In the Ashdod fuel tanker strike, the most damaging one yet, one Israeli was
seriously wounded and five people suffered less serious injuries. Eliezer Malka,
an Ashdod resident, said: "I was at the car wash when the siren went off. We ran
and then there was a huge blast. The earth shook. We did not think it would it
would be so close."

Israel has mobilised 20,000 reservists as it prepares for the possible ground
offensive. Despite the fact that Mr Netanyahu refrained from sending in ground
troops during the last Gaza war in 2012, Raviv Drucker, a leading Israeli
commentator puts the odds at 60 to 40 that Mr Netanyahu would opt for a ground
operation.

This, Mr Drucker explained, was because Mr Netanyahu will be impelled to do so
by the need to be in sync with his right-wing constituency. "Netanyahu has to
show an achievement and at the moment he doesn't have this achievement," he
said.

LOAD-DATE: July 11, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBI


           Copyright 2014 Independent Digital News and Media Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              233 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                          The Daily Telegraph (London)

                             July 12, 2014 Saturday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

Mara conservancies under threat;
Kenya Terrorist attacks are having a crippling effect on tourist numbers, which
could lead to the loss of 200,000 acres of a vital ecosystem, writes Graham
Boynton

BYLINE: Graham Boynton

SECTION: TRAVEL;FEATURES; Pg. 20,21

LENGTH: 1306 words


Kenyan conservationists fear that the stay-away by international tourists
following the recent wave of terrorist attacks threatens to turn some of the
country's fabled wildlife reserves into farmlands. Under the gravest threat are
conservancies adjacent to the greater Maasai Mara reserve and operators there
describe the situation as "dire".

I have just returned from a visit to the Maasai Mara, arguably Africa's most
famous wildlife habitat, as it heads for the peak safari season, and although
the camps and lodges were reasonably busy, according to Gerard Beaton, Kenyan
country manager of Asilia, the safari camp operator, there has been a 30 per
cent drop in tourism since the series of bombings in the country's coastal towns
and the subsequent US State Department and UK Foreign and Commonwealth Office
(FCO) travel advisories.

The FCO advises against all but essential travel to the Kenyan coast and also to
"low-income areas of Nairobi" while making it clear this warning does not
include or affect transit through Nairobi airport. However, the US State
Department announced last month it was evacuating some of its Nairobi embassy
staff, warning that "the US government continues to receive information about
potential terrorist threats aimed at the US, Western and Kenyan interests in
Kenya."

All of which seemed a little alarmist considering that on my visit there the
United Nations Environment Assembly, attended by Prince Albert of Monaco, was
being held in Nairobi, an international marathon featuring athletes from all
over the world was taking place in Lewa, and planeloads of travellers were
coming and going through Jomo Kenyatta International Airport seemingly without a
care. And in the Maasai Mara I felt as safe as I do on Hampstead Heath on a
Sunday afternoon.

However, news of the ongoing terrorist attacks has reverberated around the world
and forward bookings are looking grim. Many of the camps and lodges in the Mara
are reporting a wave of cancellations and although the July-through-September
peak season is still showing reasonable numbers, after that a severe drop-off is
expected.

The conservancies under threat, which currently cover almost 200,000 acres, are
adjacent to the main 370,000-acre Mara Reserve and not only form a significant
buffer zone to farmlands and evergrowing rural communities but are seen as a
role model of community conservation practices.

They began forming 10 years ago, the brainchild of several white Kenyans, among
them Gerard Beaton's father Ron and Jake Grieves-Cook, a former chairman of the
Kenya Tourist Board. They managed to persuade Maasai landowners to set aside
large sectors of their land for wildlife, agreeing not to live on that land and
only graze their cattle there at restricted times. In exchange they would
receive a guaranteed monthly rent, a fixed amount whatever the number of
tourists.

As an example, the pride of Beaton's portfolio is the 50,000-acre Naboisho
conservancy which has just five camps (134 beds) and pays the local community a
guaranteed $1million (£584,000) a year. "We had a couple of good years after we
started in 2006," says Gerard Beaton, "but political unrest and this recent
terrorist campaign have meant it's all financially fragile.

"It's a shame because we have exceptional wildlife inside the conservancies and
we believe that this is a role model for Africa."

The conservancies also provide tourists with a more natural wildlife experience.
While in and around the main Mara Reserve there has been almost unchecked growth
in tourist lodges and camps - from 4,000 beds in 2008 to around 7,000 beds today
- the conservancy camps have only 500 beds in total, so one seldom sees other
tourists on game drives. You can also do walking and flycamping trips in the
conservancies and take night drives, all of which are off limits in the main
reserve.

Calvin Cottar, who owns and runs Cottar's 1920s Camp, is absolutely clear about
the impact that a serious tourism downturn will have. "All eight conservancies
around the greater Mara ecosystem," he says, "have been built on the singular
foundation of tourist revenues and if this revenue dries up, as it has recently,
our Maasai landowners will have no choice but to cancel the existing wildlife
conservancies and resort to converting their land to farming maize or wheat
instead."

Cottar's 1920s Camp is located in the south-east of the ecosystem, right up
against the Tanzanian border, in what is called the Ol Derikesi wildlife
conservancy. He says that this year there will be a $140,000 (£82,000) shortfall
in revenues owed to the local community.

The success of the conservancies may be measured by the relatively low incidents
of elephant poaching in the greater Mara ecosystem in recent years. While it is
believed that the country as a whole is losing more than 1,000 elephant a year
to poachers, the Mara has actually seen a drop in poaching. Last year, out of a
total Mara population of 4,000, only 56 elephants were poached, half as many as
the previous year. There are also significant lion prides evident in the
conservancies and, it must be said, in the great Mara ecosystem as a whole, this
at a time where conservationists such as Botswana's Dereck Joubert say that
Africa's lion population is declining dramatically.

Much of this signature-species conservation is down to the Maasai community
benefiting from wildlife tourism. Operators say that if you take tourists and
tourism revenues out of the equation a massive increase in poaching is
inevitable. Some are already experimenting with alternative revenue streams and
in the Mara North conservancy the ecosystem's first abattoir has just been built
and plans to market Mara Conservancy Beef are well under way.

So, as the wildebeest migration gets under way Mara safari operators and lodge
owners wait with trepidation. This past weekend there were two more terror
attacks, one in Lamu and the other in Tana River county, leaving 30 people dead.
Against this backdrop of ongoing al-Shabaab terrorism, these operators are
trying to salvage their vulnerable industry.

Those I spoke to in the Mara this month are angry at what they regard as
"knee-jerk" blanket warnings from Western governments when the terrorist
activities have centred on Kenya's coastal region. They point out that wildlife
areas such as the Mara are hundreds of miles from terrorist activities. However,
to allay the fears of some of their American and British clients, operators such
as Great Plains are avoiding transfers between Jomo Kenyatta airport and the
light aircraft hub Wilson Airport by putting on charter flights to the Mara
directly out of Kenyatta.

Others such as Asilia are avoiding Nairobi completely and re-routing clients
through neighbouring Tanzania.

At the same time security in Nairobi has been significantly stepped up and at
hotels such as Hemingways vehicles are thoroughly searched before being allowed
through the gates and at Jomo Kenyatta airport there are long queues at various
security checkpoints, but all the travellers I spoke to said they felt
reassured.

As Asilia's Beaton says, the Maasai Mara, and the conservancies in particular,
now face a fight for survival. If tourism collapses in the wake of this
murderous campaign then the terrorists will have achieved one of their major
goals. There is much at stake.

The Ultimate Travel Company (020 3051 8098 www.theultimatetravelcompany.co.uk)
can tailor-make a week in the Maasai Mara from £4,062 per person. A three-night
stay at Cottar's 1920s Camp followed by three nights at Naboisho Camp, comes
with all meals, drinks and activities. The price also includes Kenya Airways
flights from Heathrow, bush flights with Safari Air Express (SAX) and private
transfers throughout.

In the Maasai Mara I felt as safe as I do on Hampstead Heath on a Sunday

LOAD-DATE: July 12, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Fewer tourists will be heading to the Maasai Mara this year to see the
zebra and wildebeest migrations, which will have severe economic implications
for the Maasai, right
GRAHAM BOYNTON; ALAMY

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DTL


                  Copyright 2014 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              234 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                  mirror.co.uk

                      July 12, 2014 Saturday 10:46 PM GMT

British dad: I'm on waiting list to be suicide bomber and hope I'm picked next;

Abu Sumayyah claims that despite his desire for martyrdom, there is no interest
in launching terror attacks on the UK

BYLINE: By Simon Wright

SECTION: NEWS,UK NEWS

LENGTH: 505 words


A father who fled Britain to join extremists waging war in the Middle East is on
a waiting list to be a suicide bomber - and hopes to be picked soon.

Abu Sumayyah, who has compared terrorism to the computer game Call of Duty, left
his wife and three children in Derby to fight for the militant Islamist group
ISIS, which has taken control of parts of Syria and Iraq.

He is currently at a training camp in Syria and hopes to help set up an Islamic
state in Iraq.

In a disturbing interview to be screened by the BBC tomorrow he says: "An emir
decides who to choose. There is a waiting list. I am lobbying him to move me up.

"We all want martyrdom. We don't call it suicide operation, we don't call it
suicide bomb. We voluntarily give our lives for the sake of Allah and we go
there happily."

But Sumayyah, who left Britain a year ago, insists the estimated 500 British men
who have joined the fight are NOT planning to return to the UK to launch terror
attacks.

Speaking via Skype from his camp in north-west Syria he says: "It's not the plan
of many people I've met. We really don't want to go back. We are very happy
here.

"These ideas of going back and to plot terror attacks in our countries and so
on, these things are absolute rubbish. It's the British government using scam
tactics to create fear in the public. They want to give a ­negative image to
Muslims throughout the UK."

But when asked what will happen if ISIS is targeted by American or British drone
attacks, he warns: "If you don't leave our Muslim Brothers alone around the
globe and mind your own business and support our enemies against us, then you
can expect these attacks."

He adds: "I don't miss a thing about England. I felt like I was in prison in
that country. Now I'm here I feel free. I can drive, I don't need a licence, I
don't need insurance.

"To watch TV I don't need a licence - all these things in Britain make you feel
you're in prison and you're being punished for something. They are just
money-making schemes that ­corporate bodies use to make ­themselves rich and
make us poor.

"For me to be here it's freedom. I can walk around with a Kalashnikov if I want
to."

Referring to the growing numbers of Muslim men from all over the world now
joining the fight, he goes on: "Everybody's renouncing their ­affiliation with
their countries because we are now trying to establish the kalafi (Islamic
state).

"We don't want anything to do with our previous countries. Our citizenship means
nothing to us no more. We are seeing a lot of not just foreigner fighters (join
us), but even the people on the ground, the Syrians themselves.

"They are making a disassociation from this kind of nationality thing. Because
we are from all nations, we come from all over the world. So we have one state
which we associate to and nothing else."

Last month Sumayyah spoke to a pro-ISIS internet radio station and boasted that
life with ISIS is "better than that game Call of Duty." He added: "It's really,
really fun."  Panorama, ISIS: Terror In Iraq is on BBC1 tomorrow at 8.30pm.

LOAD-DATE: September 5, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDMI


                      Copyright 2014 Trinity Mirror, Plc.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              235 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                  mirror.co.uk

                       July 13, 2014 Sunday 10:12 PM GMT

Gaza: Thousands of Palestinians flee in terror as Israel steps up its attacks;
The Israeli military said it will continue its bombardment until Hamas stops
firing rockets at the country

BYLINE: By Stephen White

SECTION: NEWS,WORLD NEWS

LENGTH: 1042 words


Gaza Crisis

They fled in battered pick-up trucks, in donkey drawn carts and on foot.

Hundreds of Palestinians left northern Gaza today in terror as Israel stepped up
it's attacks.

One family and their children carried all their belongings, including a red
plastic washing up bowl as they left their home, not knowing when, and if, they
can return.

Four thousand sought shelter in United Nations sponsored schools hoping they
wouldn't be targeted.

Hours earlier Israeli planes had rained down leaflets warning residents to
evacuate, if not they were told they would: "Endanger their lives and the lives
of their families."

The area is home to at least 100,000 people. The airforce also drops empty
shells on roofs - 'roof knocking' - to alert civilians that air-strikes are
imminent.

"They are sending warning messages," said Mohammad Abu Halemah.

"Once we received the message, we felt scared to stay in our homes. We want to
leave."

Those lucky enough to be allowed to leave via the Erez crossing into Israel hold
dual citizenship.

The Israeli military said on the sixth day of violence they would continue their
bombardment until Hamas stops firing rockets at them.

Despite a UN plea for a ceasefire observers fear the conflict will continue.

Officials in Gaza said the death toll had risen to 170 with 1,000
injured...88per cent of them they claimed were civilians.

An Israeli warplane flattened the home of Gaza police chief Taysir al-Batsh and
damaged a nearby mosque as evening prayers ended, killing at least 20 people, 17
of whom were al-Batsh family members.

Fifty were wounded, including al-Batsh himself.

"They were my cousins," said Mohammad al-Batsh, 20, a civil engineering student.

"I was coming home from mosque when I heard a huge explosion. At first I didn't
know where the sound was coming from. The air was full of dust and smoke. It
felt like an earthquake.

"When I got here, I saw destruction everywhere. The bodies were so badly burned
I could not recognise anyone. There are five still missing including a pregnant
woman."

One strike hit a centre for the disabled, killing two patients and wounding four
people.

Israel says it is targeting Hamas militants and "terror sites".

Israel Defence Force attack hidden weapon stashes

Overnight for the first time as well as 1,300 air strikes, Israeli troops -
believed to be Navy commandoes - launched from a warship landed in Gaza in an
operation to eliminate a rocket base. Four Israeli troops were slightly injured
in a gun battle lasting 30 minutes.

In Tel Aviv air raid sirens sounded as Hamas continue to fire rockets at the
south of the country. Some 800 have been fired, seriously injuring three people.

Yesterday at least two rockets were taken out by Israel's 'Iron Dome' defence
system which tracks incoming fire and blast the rockets out of the sky.

In the city's beach-front cafes many cheered as a puff of smoke high in the sky
signalled the rocket had been bit. Others, the elderly, and many with young
children,headed for the air-raid shelters now sign-posted around the city.

The Israeli Defence forced said it was prepared 'if necessary' to launch a
ground offensive.

"We don't know when the operation will end," Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin
Netayahu told a Cabinet meeting. "It might take a long time."

Dozens of matt-grey Merkava battle tanks have massed on the border along with
four brigades of troops.

Twenty thousand reservists have been put on standby.

"We do not wish to harm civilians in Gaza, but these civilians must know that
remaining in close proximity to Hamas terrorists and infrastructures is
extremely unsafe," the IDF said.

Foreign Secretary William Hague warned of the "urgent need" to end the fighting
yesterday(sun).

He said Israel had a right to defend itself from rocket attacks but urged both
sides to work to restore a ceasefire and said Britain stands ready to provide
what support it can.

Arriving in Vienna for talks with international counterparts over Iran's nuclear
programme, Mr Hague said: "There's an urgent need to bring an end to the
violence in Gaza and to restore the November 2012 ceasefire agreement.

"Many of us as foreign ministers of the different countries have been in
discussions, including me yesterday, with president Abbas and the Israeli
foreign minister and as you know the UN security council has made a statement
about the need for this."

Although Israel say they are targeting Hamas and over the weekend destroyed most
of the security headquarters and police stations run by Hamas Islamist
militants.

But the Palestinian Authority's envoy in the UK, Manuel Hassassian, says there
is nowhere for Gaza's residents to hide.

"Hamas is an integral part of the population, and they are resisting from
everywhere," he said.

"When Israel says, 'We dropped leaflets to evacuate the northern part of Gaza...
we don't need collateral damage' - well, they have been bombarding all of Gaza.
And where do these people have to go? There are no shelters, no bunkers, no
place to go, except their homes. If they leave their homes, they will be hit on
the street."

Both sides took to Twitter to defend their actions.

"Sirens heard across Israel. Gaza terrorists firing barrages of rockets. Israel
is under attack," the IDF posted, with a photo asking "What would you do?"

Another tweet yesterday showed large trucks. "As rockets fall on Israel, we keep
our crossing to Gaza open. 59 truckloads of goods are about to reach
Palestinians," the post said.

Hamas posted that it was going to strike Tel Aviv. "Palestinians are defending
themselves," the group said with a video that it said showed it targeting a
tank.

Germany is sending Foreign Minister Frank-Walter Steinmeier to Israel today(mon)
for talks with Israelis and Palestinians to help negotiate an end to the
violence.

Rocket fire and air strikes increased after the abduction and killing of three
Israeli teenagers in June, which Israel blamed on Hamas. They deny being behind
the killings.

Tensions rose further after the suspected revenge killing of a Palestinian
teenager in Jerusalem on 2 July. Six Jewish suspects were arrested over the
youth's abduction and murder.

The last round of fighting between Hamas and Israel in 2012 ended with a
cease-fire deal mediated by then President of Egypt, Mohammad Morsi.

LOAD-DATE: September 5, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDMI


                      Copyright 2014 Trinity Mirror, Plc.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              236 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                          China Daily European Edition

                              July 14, 2014 Monday

Terror attacks stifle Uygur businesses

BYLINE: By CUI JIA in Urumqi

SECTION: CENTER

LENGTH: 440 words


Criminal acts make it hard to 'operate at ease'

The businesses of Uygur entrepreneurs in the Xinjiang Uygur autonomous region,
especially in traditional Uygur foods, have suffered serious setbacks since the
series of terrorist attacks that happened this year, businessmen said, who
jointly condemned the violent acts.

"Our hotel's occupancy rate dropped by 60 percent in the first half of the year,
compared with last year. Our banquet hall, which caters to tourists and offers
traditional Uygur foods and performances, has seen hardly any customers since
the terrorist attack in Kunming in March," said Xoket Abulat, the manager of
Xinjiang Tumaris Hotel in Urumqi, the regional capital.

He said that because of the poor sales, the hotel had no choice but to let some
employees go and reduce the salaries of those stayed. "The shockwave from such
attacks will gradually hit every one of us, especially those selling Uygur food
and engaged in the leisure industry. "

On March 1, a group of knife-wielding assailants attacked civilians at a railway
station in Kunming, capital of Yunnan province. Police shot four attackers dead
at the station, and the other four were arrested and detained by police. All
were from Xinjiang.

Two separate terrorist attacks were carried out in Urumqi in April and May. The
violence prompted the central government to launch a nationwide yearlong
campaign against terrorism.

"The restaurants have had considerably fewer customers since March, and it is
not getting any better," said Abudulkeyim Rejip, the manager of the Xinjiang
Bodun Uygur fast food chain.

The less optimistic situation of his business actually has fueled his ambition
to open new branches outside the region. "There are so many misunderstandings
about Uygurs. I hope the restaurants will serve as platforms to create mutual
respect," he said.

Xoket and Abudulkeyim are among the 566 entrepreneurs and their employees - most
of them from Uygur ethnic group - who jointly drafted and signed an open letter
addressed to fellow Uygurs to denounce terrorism a week ago.

"The terrorists' criminal acts have wronged us and made us unable to operate at
ease," said the letter. "Whenever terror happens, our hearts hurt. Our
enterprises have been affected by the terrorist attacks."

The letter called on all Uygurs to unite to fight terrorism.

On July 10, the Xinjiang regional government sent a work group to Guangdong
province assisting local government to provide services and manage the workforce
from Xinjiang. More teams will be sent to other provinces where many people from
Xinjiang make their living.

Contact the writer at cuijia@chinadaily.com.cn

LOAD-DATE: July 14, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2014 China Daily Information Co
                              All Rights Reserved

                              237 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                              DAILY MAIL (London)

                              July 14, 2014 Monday

SNOWDEN ATTACKS THE TERROR BILL PROMPTED

LENGTH: 709 words


HIS TREASON

BY IAN DRURY HOME AFFAIRS CORRESPONDENT

FUGITIVE CIA worker Edward Snowden caused fury last night by attacking Britain
for introducing emergency legislation to foil terrorist plots.

His critics said the new surveillance Bill was being pushed through Parliament
tomorrow largely because of his treachery in leaking Britain's spy secrets.

Snowden, who has become one of the world's most wanted men, said the measures to
allow the security services and police to monitor the public's phone, email and
internet records defied belief'.

He is wanted for treason after stealing classified documents from the US
National Security Agency.

The defence contractor, a computer specialist at an intelligence centre in
Hawaii, leaked highly damaging revelations of attempts by state spy agencies -
including Britain's GCHQ and MI5 - to monitor citizens' private information.

After he revealed how intelligence agents had access to data compiled by the
likes of Google and Yahoo, some of the internet giants - under pressure from
civil liberties groups - became reluctant to co-operate with the Government and
say they may withhold crucial intelligence.

David Cameron insisted last week that new snooping laws were urgently needed
because Snowden had compromised the ability of the spy agencies to keep track of
dangerous extremists.

Last night, in an interview with the Guardian newspaper conducted in Russia
where the 31-year-old has been granted temporary asylum, Snowden blasted the
Government for passing emergency laws in peace time.

He said: We don't have bombs falling. We don't have U-boats in the harbour.'

He added that the move to introduce anti-terror legislation so quickly mirrored
the way the US brought in the Protect America Act in 2007 after the NSA lost
cooperation from telecom and internet companies.

The NSA could have written this draft,' he said. They passed it under the same
sort of emergency justification. They said we would be at risk. They said
companies will no longer cooperate with us. [They said] We're losing valuable
intelligence that puts the nation at risk.'

Snowden also questioned why the Home Office had introduced new laws following a
judgement by the European courts that declared some existing surveillance
measures invalid. Communications firms are obliged by a 2006 EU directive to
store records such as who a person called, where from and when for at least a
year.

But this was ruled unlawful by the EU Court of Justice in April and companies
had told the Government that, if they did not pass the new law, they would begin
destroying crucial phone records.

Snowden said: Is it really going to be so costly for us to take a few days to
debate where the line should be drawn about the authority and what really serves
the public interest?

If these surveillance authorities are so interested, so invasive, the courts are
actually saying they violate fundamental rights, do we really want to authorise
them on a new, increased and more intrusive scale without any public debate?'

He said the British government had been silent in the year since he had exposed
the scale of surveillance by the NSA and GCHQ.

Snowden said: Yet suddenly we're told there's a brand new Bill. And we don't
have time to debate it, despite the fact that this was not a priority, this was
not an issue that needed to be discussed at all, for an entire year. It defies
belief.'

The Government has justified the legislation amid intelligence fears that
Islamist militants are plotting to blow up a transatlantic airliner having
developed a stealth bomb undetectable to airport scanners.

There are mounting concerns that Al Qaeda's top bomb-maker Ibrahim Al-Asiri has
developed a non-metallic bomb that can be hidden inside human bodies or
electronic devices.

Civil liberties groups have cast doubt on Government claims that the Bill will
not increase the powers of the surveillance agencies.

But Tory MP Julian Smith said: Edward Snowden and the Guardian continue with
their crackpot conspiracy theories and we should take no lessons from them.

This will protect our country from paedophiles and technologically savvy
terrorists. This legislation is proportionate and couldn't come fast enough
given the threats our country is under.'

Comment - Page 14

© Daily Mail

LOAD-DATE: July 13, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Papers


                   Copyright 2014 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              238 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                  M2 PressWIRE

                              July 14, 2014 Monday

Somalia: Security Council strongly condemns most recent terrorist attacks in
Mogadishu

LENGTH: 222 words


July 12, 2014

The members of the United Nations Security Council have condemned "in the
strongest terms" the recent attacks by the insurgent group Al-Shabaab in
Mogadishu against the presidential palace and seat of Government, as well as on
the Somali Parliament and its members.



The 8 July attack on the presidential palace, known as Villa Somalia, was the
latest in a series of attacks by Al-Shabaab against the country's political
institutions.

"The members of the Security Council reiterated their resolve to continue to
stand by the people and Government of Somalia, in the face of deplorable
terrorist attacks, as they seek to establish peace and prosperity across their
country," the 15-member body said in a statement issued to the press on Friday
night.

The statement followed a briefing to the Council from the Secretary-General's
Special Representative and head of the UN Assistance Mission in Somali ( UNSOM
), Nicholas Kay, on the security situation in Mogadishu.

Council members paid tribute to both the African Union Mission in Somalia
(AMISOM) and the Somali National Security Forces for their effective response to
the attack against Villa Somalia, while also underlining the urgent need to
support the National Security Forces for it to be able to assume full
responsibility for security in Mogadishu and beyond.

LOAD-DATE: July 14, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newswire

JOURNAL-CODE: M2PW


                      Copyright 2014 Normans Media Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              239 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                   MailOnline

                       July 14, 2014 Monday 10:27 PM GMT

Terror attack on Aust soil inevitable: MP

BYLINE: AUSTRALIAN ASSOCIATED PRESS

SECTION: AAP

LENGTH: 164 words


A Bali-style terror attack on Australian soil is inevitable, a senior member of
a parliamentary security committee has warned.

Labor MP Anthony Byrne, who is deputy chair of the joint intelligence and
security committee, believes the threat to national security is accelerating.

"One of the grave concerns I have... is that eventually and inevitably in this
country an event will occur on this soil of the magnitude of the Bali event," he
told parliament on Monday night.

Mr Byrne said he does not want to be part of parliament that reacts to an event.

"I want to be part of a parliament that puts the laws in place to prevent that
event from taking place," he said.

Parliament should debate the merits of data retention legislation sooner rather
than later.

"If a government is concerned and is making the right noises about being
concerned about this nation's security, it must give its agencies all of the
suite of powers that they need to deal with the terrorist threat," Mr Byrne
said.

LOAD-DATE: July 14, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDM


                   Copyright 2014 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              240 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                   MailOnline

                        July 14, 2014 Monday 5:54 PM GMT

Spy chiefs believe terror attack in Australia on scale of Bali bombing may be
inevitable, says senior MP as he backs bid for greater surveillance powers

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 1130 words



     ·    Labor MP Anthony Byrne warns of terrorist attack 'on Australian
          soil...'
     ·    Spy chiefs are concerned the government is not being proactive enough
     ·    Legislation to give ASIO new powers is set to be introduced to
          parliament
     ·    Almost 60 Australians fight for Islamic extremist groups in Iraq and
          Syria


Senior Labor MP Anthony Byrne has warned that Australia faces the prospect of a
terrorist attack similar in scale to the Bali bombings, and has pleaded with the
government to be more proactive in the face of such a threat.

He also raised concerns that Australia's security forces will be restricted in
preventing an attack unless Australian Security Intelligence Organisation (ASIO)
and other spy agencies are granted new powers.

Despite requests for such powers, these have been refused to date, reported The
Daily Telegraph.

The Labor MP and former Joint Committee on Intelligence and Security chair
revealed the sentiments of the intelligence community in parliament on Monday.

'That event will be there to cause immense damage to the psyche of the
Australian community. That will be its purpose, its intent,' he said.

'I don't want to be part of a parliament that reacts to an event. I want to be
part of a parliament that puts laws in place to prevent that event.'

The 2002 Bali bombing happened in the tourist district of Kuta on October 12 and
killed 202 people, including 88 Australians and left hundreds injured.

Members of Islamist group Jemaah Islamiyah were convicted in relation to the
bombings.

Senior officials from Australia's security services meet tomorrow for a private
briefing with Attorney-General George Brandis before legislation to give ASIO
new powers is introduced to parliament.

On the back of a bipartisan report completed last year of the Joint Committee on
Intelligence and Security calls for additional powers for ASIO, it has been
reported that Mr Brandis would adopt 41 of 43 recommendations.

Yet the government has not included the controversial date retention laws, which
would force internet and telecommunication companies to keep metadata for a
period of two years.

Similar laws were granted to UK spy agencies last week and Mr Byrne said without
data retention powers, Australian spy agencies were limited in what he considers
a current a high-risk period.

Despite warnings about domestic terrorist activity and links to Australians
fighting with jihadists in Syria and Iraq, spy chiefs are worried the federal
government is not acting quick enough.

One of Australia's most high-profile jihadists, Khaled Sharrouf, fled Australia
in December on his brother's passport to link up with fundamentalist militia
group Islamic State in Syria.

Sharrouf is currently being investigated by Australian authorities in relation
to allegations he is fighting with Islamic State - a breakaway al-Qaeda group.

Scroll down for video

In 2008, he became a convicted terrorist when he pleaded guilty and was jailed
for acts in preparation for a terrorist act after he was one of eight people
arrested for plotting to attack the Lucas Heights nuclear reactor, in Sydney's
south.

Sharrouf recently issued a call-to-arms for other Australian Muslims to join
Islamic State's bloody war in the Middle East as well as posting a photo on
Twitter of a young child brandishing a rifle.

In the early hours of July 5, Sharrouf tweeted: 'Come and be part of what we
have dreamt...for decades'. It was accompanied by a picture of him decked out in
army camouflage posing with a gun in front of a white BMW.

This followed his fellow brother-in-arms Mohamed Elomar, one of almost 60
Australians fighting for extremist groups in the Middle East, who took aim at
diggers fighting in Iraq, tweeting: 'Look at the end of these Iraqi maliki dogs
bunch of girls can't wait to see a Australia soldier cyring [sic] saying bakia.'

Another tweet fired off from Sharrouf read: 'My (provisions) are beneath the
shade of my sword. We live better than we lived in our country.'

But these uploads barely scratch the surface of the disturbing content found on
Sharrouf's Twitter page.

Earlier posts contain pictures so graphic that Daily Mail Australia has chosen
not to describe or publish them.

But one that can be shared is of a young child brandishing a gun and smiling
with the caption: 'One of dawlas [sic] youngest members' - which was posted late
May. Dawlah is Arabic for country or state.

Other photos show Sharrouf standing in front of military vehicles as well as
fundamentalist propaganda memes.

These tweets came just days after the Australian Government said almost 60
Australians fight for Islamic radicals in Iraq and Syria.

WHO IS KHALED SHARROUF?


     ·    According to Attorney-General George Brandis, the former Sydney
          resident fled the country - believed to be on the way to Syria - on
          his brother's passport last December
     ·    At that time, Sharrouf was being monitored by the Australian
          Government. His passport had been cancelled and he was put on airport
          watch-lists
     ·    Sharrouf is currently being investigated by Australian authorities in
          relation to allegations he is fighting with Islamic State
     ·    He is a convicted jihadi terrorist after he pleaded guilty and was
          jailed for acts in preparation for a terrorist act in 2008 and was
          released in 2009, the Daily Telegraph reported
     ·    The conviction came after Sharrouf was one of eight people arrested in
          a plot to attack the Lucas Heights nuclear reactor - in Sydney's
          south, according to the Sydney Morning Herald


Meanwhile about 150 Australians were being monitored for supporting terrorist
organisations, recruiting fighters or preparing to travel overseas to fight.

This information was revealed after Sydney teenager Abdullah Elmir, 17, became
the third Australian teenager to walk out on his family in June bound for Iraq
to fight in the troubled war zone.

He went missing from his family's Bankstown home - in Western Sydney - almost
three weeks ago, and has only been heard from once when he contacted his mother
to say he was in Turkey.

Ten Australians have died while fighting for extremists in Syria and Iraq.

The latest is a 22-year-old Sydney man, Zakaria Raad, who appeared in a
recruitment video for the terror group Islamic State - formerly known as the
'Islamic State of Iraq and the Levant' and 'Islamic State of Iraq and Syria' -
shortly before he was ambushed in Syria.

In one of the recruitment videos entitled There Is No Life Without Jihad, an
Australian man who calls himself Abu Yahya ash Shami said he wanted to send 'a
message...from a Muslim brother's heart to another brother's heart'.

He appeals to Australian Muslims to come join him in the Middle East to restore
'honour' in the region, saying: 'Wake up, wake up and be part of this effort.'

LOAD-DATE: July 14, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDM


                   Copyright 2014 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              241 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                   MailOnline

                       July 14, 2014 Monday 12:09 AM GMT

Snowden attacks the terror Bill prompted by his treason: Fugitive says plans to
monitor communications 'defies belief'

BYLINE: IAN DRURY

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 742 words



     ·    Edward Snowden causes fury for attack on Britain's new surveillance
          bill
     ·    Defence contractor wanted for treason for leaking spy agency documents
     ·    David Cameron claims new laws necessary because of Snowden's leaks
     ·    Comes amid concern of new bomb making threats from Al Qaeda


Fugitive CIA worker Edward Snowden caused fury last night by attacking Britain
for introducing emergency legislation to foil terrorist plots.

His critics said the new surveillance Bill was being pushed through Parliament
today largely because of his treachery in leaking Britain's spy secrets.

Snowden, who has become one of the world's most wanted men, said the measures to
allow the security services and police to monitor the public's phone, email and
internet records 'defied belief'.

He is wanted for treason after stealing classified documents from the US
National Security Agency.

The defence contractor, a computer specialist at an intelligence centre in
Hawaii, leaked highly damaging revelations of attempts by state spy agencies -
including Britain's GCHQ and MI5 - to monitor citizens' private information.

After he revealed how intelligence agents had access to data compiled by the
likes of Google and Yahoo, some of the internet giants - under pressure from
civil liberties groups - became reluctant to co-operate with the Government and
say they may withhold crucial intelligence.

David Cameron insisted last week that new snooping laws were urgently needed
because Snowden had compromised the ability of the spy agencies to keep track of
dangerous extremists.

Last night, in an interview with the Guardian newspaper conducted in Russia
where the 31-year-old has been granted temporary asylum, Snowden blasted the
Government for passing emergency laws in peace time.

He said: 'We don't have bombs falling. We don't have U-boats in the harbour.'

He added that the move to introduce anti-terror legislation so quickly mirrored
the way the US brought in the Protect America Act in 2007 after the NSA lost
cooperation from telecom and internet companies.

'The NSA could have written this draft,' he said. 'They passed it under the same
sort of emergency justification. They said we would be at risk. They said
companies will no longer cooperate with us. [They said] We're losing valuable
intelligence that puts the nation at risk.'

Snowden also questioned why the Home Office had introduced new laws following a
judgement by the European courts that declared some existing surveillance
measures invalid. Communications firms are obliged by a 2006 EU directive to
store records such as who a person called, where from and when for at least a
year.

But this was ruled unlawful by the EU Court of Justice in April and companies
had told the  Government that, if they did not pass the new law, they would
begin destroying crucial phone records.

Snowden said: 'Is it really going to be so costly for us to take a few days to
debate where the line should be drawn about the authority and what really serves
the public interest?

'If these surveillance authorities are so interested, so invasive, the courts
are actually saying they violate fundamental rights, do we really want to
authorise them on a new, increased and more intrusive scale without any public
debate?'

He said the British government had been silent in the year since he had exposed
the scale of surveillance by the NSA and GCHQ.

Snowden said: 'Yet suddenly we're told there's a brand new Bill. And we don't
have time to debate it, despite the fact that this was not a priority, this was
not an issue that needed to be discussed at all, for an entire year. It defies
belief.' The Government has justified the legislation amid intelligence fears
that Islamist militants are plotting to blow up a transatlantic airliner having
developed a stealth bomb undetectable to airport scanners.

There are mounting concerns that Al Qaeda's top bomb-maker Ibrahim Al-Asiri has
developed a non-metallic bomb that can be hidden inside human bodies or
electronic devices.

Civil liberties groups have cast doubt on Government claims that the Bill will
not increase the powers of the surveillance agencies.

But Tory MP Julian Smith said: 'Edward Snowden and the Guardian continue with
their crackpot conspiracy theories and we should take no lessons from them.

'This will protect our country from paedophiles and technologically savvy
terrorists. This legislation is proportionate and couldn't come fast enough
given the threats our country is under.'

LOAD-DATE: July 14, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDM


                   Copyright 2014 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              242 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                 BBC Monitoring Former Soviet Union - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                             July 15, 2014 Tuesday

Metro crash not terrorist attack - Moscow official

LENGTH: 68 words


Text of report by privately-owned Russian news agency Interfax

Moscow, 15 July: The version of a terror attack as a cause of the accident in
the Moscow metro has been completely excluded, Moscow authorities say.

Answering journalists' question whether there was a blast in the metro, deputy
Moscow mayor Petr Biryukov said: "No, there wasn't."

Source: Interfax news agency, Moscow, in Russian 1033 gmt 15 Jul 14

LOAD-DATE: July 15, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2014 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              243 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                               Daily Star Online

                       July 15, 2014 Tuesday 12:15 AM GMT

It's the attack of the cyber terrorists! David Cameron pledges to tackle foreign
attackers

BYLINE: Robin Cottle

LENGTH: 303 words


DAVID Cameron has pledged £1.1billion to tackle cyber terrorists threatening to
target Britain.

Spending on futuristic technology such as drones is a "national necessity" to
stop foreign attackers crippling the UK.

The PM made the announcement at the Farnborough International Air Show in
Hampshire yesterday as he looked to confront new threats to national security.

He said: "This investment demonstrates our approach to national security.

"We cannot defend the realm from the white cliffs of Dover.

"Terrorist plots hatched thousands of miles away threaten to cause harm on our
streets.

"Advancing these interests is not national vanity, it is national necessity. Our
national interest is served by Britain playing a role in the world."

The boost come days after Defence Secretary Philip Hammond, 58, warned the PM
about the dangers of further Armed Forces cuts.

Mr Cameron, 47, said: "The threats we face have changed utterly in 30 years,
from the clarity of the Cold War to the complex and shifting challenges of
today, global terrorism, hostage taking, cyber attacks and energy security.

"The enemy may be seen or unseen.

"It is not massed tanks on the European mainland we need, but the latest in
cyber warfare."

The Prime Minister also outlined plans to set up a UK Defence Solutions Centre
in Farnborough to develop the new technology.

And he tackled concerns that the defence budget could be slashed after next
year's general election.

Mr Cameron said: "Our national interest is served by Britain playing a role in
the world. We need to maintain this ability."

Related articles Bernie Ecclestone wary as David Cameron takes steps to allow
Formula 1 Grand Pix in London David Cameron's ex-aide jailed for phone-hacking
David Cameron's former aide court child porn charges Patrick Rock

LOAD-DATE: July 15, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDS


              Copyright 2014 Northern and Shell Media Publications
                              All Rights Reserved

                              244 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                   MailOnline

                       July 15, 2014 Tuesday 12:16 AM GMT

Terror attack on Aust soil inevitable: MP

BYLINE: AUSTRALIAN ASSOCIATED PRESS

SECTION: AAP

LENGTH: 301 words


A Bali-style terror attack on Australian soil is inevitable, a senior member of
a parliamentary security committee has warned.

Labor MP Anthony Byrne, who is deputy chair of the joint intelligence and
security committee, believes the threat to national security is accelerating.

"One of the grave concerns I have... is that eventually and inevitably in this
country an event will occur on this soil of the magnitude of the Bali event," he
told parliament on Monday night.

Mr Byrne said he does not want to be part of parliament that reacts to an event.

"I want to be part of a parliament that puts the laws in place to prevent that
event from taking place," he said.

Parliament should debate the merits of data retention legislation sooner rather
than later.

"If a government is concerned and is making the right noises about being
concerned about this nation's security, it must give its agencies all of the
suite of powers that they need to deal with the terrorist threat," Mr Byrne
said.

Crossbench senator David Leyonhjelm said he had deep concerns about data
retention.

"Data retention works on the assumption that we're all criminals and have to be
watched," the Liberal Democratic Party senator told reporters in Canberra.

Independent senator Nick Xenophon said the measure hadn't necessarily prevented
terrorist attacks overseas.

Greens senator Christine Milne said the terrorism threat shouldn't be used as a
excuse to infringe on privacy.

"We've got to a point in Australia where you just need to have to use the words
`terrorism' or `national security' to justify any changes to the law," Senator
Milne said.

Labor senator Sam Dastyari said it was important to balance civil liberties with
national security.

"I always start from a position of scepticism about anything in the area of data
retention," he said.

LOAD-DATE: July 15, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDM


                   Copyright 2014 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              245 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                               South Wales Argus

                             July 15, 2014 Tuesday

ARGUS ARCHIVE: 25 years ago - Rugby legend rescues baby from terror attack

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 125 words


GWENT rugby legend Charlie Faulkner told how he carried a baby 100 yards to
safety through a stampeding crowd after a suspected terror attack at Jerusalem's
Wailing Wall.

1000 Christians marched through Blackwood to proclaim their faith and protest
against a plan to open an occult centre in the town.

An arson attack on the post office parcel depot at Leeway Indistrial estate was
discovered to have been started by a 15-year-old boy to cover the fact that he
had burgled the factory three times and was trying to destroy evidence.

The future of Gwent's one remaining deep mine, Oakdale was to be put under
review. The announcement came on the day that British Coal finally closed
Merthyr Vale colliery, the pit at the centre of the 1966 Aberfan disaster.

LOAD-DATE: July 15, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2014 NewsQuest Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              246 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring Middle East - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                            July 16, 2014 Wednesday

Minister says Moroccan ISIS members plot terrorist attacks in kingdom

LENGTH: 950 words


Text of report by state-owned, government controlled Moroccan news agency MAP
website

A total of 1,122 Moroccans are affiliated to terrorist organizations in Iraq and
Syria, together with Moroccan-born European nationals whose number is estimated
at some 2,000 persons, the minister said during the question-time session at the
House of Representatives, noting that Moroccan authorities investigated 128
Moroccans who returned to Morocco.

These Moroccan fighters hold leadership positions at the ISIL (such as military
emir, emir of the financial commission, emir of the Turkman Mountains Zone and
emir of land borders), explained the minister who noted that that these
individuals join ISIL ranks, not only to fight but also to undergo trainings in
order to carry out attacks against the Kingdom. What is more worrying, he went
on, is that these enrolled Moroccans accept to carry out suicide attacks,
knowing that 20 Moroccan fighters have already conducted attacks of this type.

Hassad who answered a question from the National Rally of Independents (RNI),
Party for justice and development (PJD), Constitutional Union (UC), Istiqlal,
popular movement and the Party for Progress and socialism (PPS) stressed that
intelligence information revealed the existence of coordination between ISIL and
other extremist organizations active in the Sahel and North Africa regions to
designate parties that will carry out the terrorist plan in Morocco.

This information also revealed that the terrorist plot against Morocco targeted
public interests and personalities, he said, adding "we possess a list of these
personalities."

There are also audio and video recordings broadcast on the Internet of Moroccan
fighters threatening terrorist operations against Moroccan public figures, he
told representatives.

After surveying counter-terrorism strategies adopted by European and Arab
countries, the minister insisted that the Moroccan government's strategy seeks
to protect the kingdom against the phenomenon of terrorism, by reinforcing the
work of the intelligence services and coordination between the competent
parties, at the central and local levels as well as overseas.

This proactive policy has helped dismantle rings that were getting ready to
conduct terrorist attacks, he pointed out, explaining that the interior
ministry's integrated strategy of vigilance includes coordination between
various departments and defining the mission of each department as far as
prevention, intervention and repression are concerned.

Hassad further revealed that the governors nationwide have been instructed to
reinforce customary counter-terrorism measures and raise the level of controls
at airports and ports, as well as in the Kingdom's eastern provinces.

In this context, he paid tribute to efforts made by the security departments to
preserve the country's security and stability as well as their continuous
vigilance to foil any attempt to endanger Morocco's security.

While we have great confidence in the security services' capacity to face new
terrorist threats, as a result of their competence and dedication, these
services are facing, in the discharge of their duties, the behaviours of some
domestic associations and entities which are active, under the cover of human
rights defence, but do not hesitate to hold unfounded accusations against these
services, such as kidnapping, torture, and arbitrary detention, in order to
undermine their morale, harm the credibility of the security services' action
and cast doubts over the measures taken."

The Interior Minister argued that these practices are part of a well-devised
campaign serving the interests of some given services through the drafting and
presentation of inaccurate reports in order to lead some international
organizations and non-governmental organizations to oppose Morocco's interests,
including the Moroccan Sahara issue.

These organizations, he went, receive financial support and other advantages
from several foreign sources, he pointed out, noting that funds paid to these
organizations exceed by 60pc the funds of political parties.

The Interior Minister assured that Morocco will continue to preserve the margins
of freedoms, in accordance with the instructions of King Mohammed VI to deepen
the human rights culture and consolidate the state of institutions, adding that
the schemes plotted by these NGOs will not at all affect the authorities'
determination to perfect human rights reforms in keeping with the 2011
constitution.

Gains achieved so far exact that we contribute to deepen the democratic option
and show vigilance and mobilization to foil all criminal and terrorist attempts
seeking to undermine these endeavours, he concluded.

The parliamentary groups stressed the need to reinforce vigilance in various
regions, given the increasing number of Moroccans enrolled by this terrorist
organization and take preventive measures to confront these terrorist action and
terrorism advocacy through the Internet.

They also hailed the security services efforts and called for intensifying
coordination among the different departments. Preserving Morocco against
terrorist risks needs a scientific, intellectual and political preventive
approach in order to carry on the ongoing reforms meant to reinforce freedoms
and human rights and fulfil development, democracy and social justice, the MPs
said.

They also recommended that political parties, unions and associations should be
given more considerable means, noting the importance of conducting
awareness-promotion campaigns for citizens with the participation of political
parties, unions, the civil society and the media.

Source: MAP news agency website, Rabat, in Arabic 0001 gmt 16 Jul 14

LOAD-DATE: July 16, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2014 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              247 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                       BBC Monitoring Africa - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                             July 17, 2014 Thursday

Burkina Faso official says Ouagadougou blast not terror attack

LENGTH: 231 words


Text of report by French state-funded public broadcaster Radio France
Internationale on 16 July

[Presenter] Yesterday, an explosion in Burkina Faso killed four people and
injured about 40 people in Ouagadougou, the capital city. These are the latest
figures to be presented by the head of police during a press conference this
afternoon. The effects were felt several kilometres away from the explosion
place and 21 houses were destroyed with roofs and window panes flying away.
Burkina be authorities have formally rejected any hypothesis of this being an
attack. According to them, it is an accidental explosion in a private place.
Listen to Alain-Edouard Traore, the Burkina be government spokesman.

[Traore] It is a person who had put explosive material in a house that he had
rented. Investigations are leading us to (?this house) that use explosives.
[words indistinct] As far as what could have happened is concerned, could it be
that the material was badly handled? We do not know exactly what happened. All
in all it led to an explosion.

[Presenter] It was therefore accidental. Wasn't it a terrorist attack to cause
disturbance?

[Traore] No, not at all. Absolutely no. I am firm on this. There was no attack
as such and we are currently looking to the person who had rented this house so
that we can find him.

Source: Radio France Internationale, Paris, in French 1830 gmt 16 Jul 14

LOAD-DATE: July 17, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2014 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              248 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring Middle East - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                              July 18, 2014 Friday

Jordan condemns terror attack in Tunisia

LENGTH: 147 words


Text of report in English by privately-owned Jordan Times website on 17 July

Minister of State for Media Affairs and Communications Muhammad Mumani on
Thursday [17 July] denounced an assault by armed terrorist groups on two
Tunisian army posts in Chaambi region on Wednesday.

In a statement carried by the Jordan News Agency, Petra, Mumani underlined the
Kingdom's unwavering rejection of all forms of terrorism, regardless of motive
or origin.

He stressed Jordan's solidarity with the Tunisian government and people as they
stand up to confront terrorism and "blind" violence, which, he said, seek to
undermine the stability and security of Tunisia.

Mumani extended his condolences to the Tunisian government and people and for
the families of those who died in the assault and he wished the injured a speedy
recovery.

Source: Jordan Times website, Amman, in English 2355 gmt 17 Jul 14

LOAD-DATE: July 18, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2014 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              249 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                        BBC Monitoring Central Asia Unit
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                              July 18, 2014 Friday

Seven held for planning "terrorist attacks" in central Tajikistan

LENGTH: 217 words


Text of report by privately-owned Tajik Avesta website on 18 July

A total of seven people have been detained on suspicion of planning a series of
terrorist attacks in [central Tajikistan's] Tursunzoda town, the head of the
Tajik Interior Ministry's directorate for fighting against organized crime,
Safiallo Devonayev, told a news conference in Dushanbe today.

He said that the suspected terrorists were planning to organize a series of
explosions in Tursunzoda, including at the Tajik aluminium plant.

"It was also reported that they were trying to organize explosions at the
buildings of the town administration, the prosecutor's office as well as the
town police department in Tursunzoda. The terrorists' plans to commit the crimes
have been prevented thanks to the co-ordinated actions of the law-enforcement
agencies," Devonayev said.

He noted that all the detained people are citizens of Tajikistan and studied in
Islamic countries. "All of the detained people have been identified," Devonayev
said in conclusion.

The law-enforcement agencies reported [earlier] that a [separate] group of
suspected terrorists who were planning a terrorist attack on the premises of the
Tajik aluminium plant, were detained in Tursunzoda in early April 2014.

Source: Avesta website, Dushanbe, in Russian 0829 gmt 18 Jul 14

LOAD-DATE: July 18, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2014 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              250 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                            BBC Monitoring Kiev Unit
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                              July 18, 2014 Friday

Ukrainian security agency averts terrorist attacks in major city - ministry

LENGTH: 345 words


Text of report by private Ukrainian news agency UNIAN

Kiev, 18 July: Law enforcers have averted a series of terrorists attacks in
Dnipropetrovsk.

The website of the Interior Ministry reported that operatives from the
directorate for combating organized crime in Dnipropetrovsk Region, the SBU
[Security Service of Ukraine] employees and servicemen of the Sokil and Alfa
special units detained two members of a terrorist group who were preparing a
series of terrorist attacks.

According to operational information, the building of the Dnipropetrovsk
regional state administration, Merefo-Khersonskyy railway bridge and city
pipelines in Dnipropetrovsk were among the objects listed as targets for
terrorist attacks.

During a search at the temporary residence of the detainees, six RPG-18 (Mukha)
grenade launchers, topographic maps of Dnipropetrovsk, balaclava masks and other
equipment for carrying out terrorist acts were found.

The detainees were Ukrainian citizens and residents of Luhansk Region, Roman
Ohanesyan (nickname Boroda) and Eduard Klyuchkin (nickname Staff).

They arrived in Dnipropetrovsk earlier at the order of a terrorists group based
in Donbass. A Russian citizen is its leader.

Criminal proceedings were opened under Article 263, Part 1, carrying, storing,
purchasing and making firearms, munitions, explosive substances or devices, and
Article 258, terrorist attack, of the Criminal Code of Ukraine.

The preventive measure is being decided. Investigation and operational measures
are being undertaken to uncover other members of the terrorist group.

[At 1024 gmt, 5 Kanal showed SBU chief Valentyn Nalyvaychenko telling a briefing
that a Russian citizen Petrov V. nicknamed Batya provided instructions and
weapons for Ukrainian citizens to carry out terrorist attacks in Dnipropetrovsk.

At 1023 on the same day, UNIAN reported, quoting the press service of the
Zaporizhzhya prosecutor's office as saying, that terrorists were arrested at the
attempt to blow up the House of Press in Zaporizhzhya.]

Source: UNIAN news agency, Kiev, in Ukrainian 0801 gmt 18 Jul 14

LOAD-DATE: July 18, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2014 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              251 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                               dailyrecord.co.uk

                       July 18, 2014 Friday 11:29 AM GMT

Ex-football starlet fined £1000 for terror attack Facebook jibe;
RYAN Harbinson, formerly on St Johnstone's books, posted a comment about
torching a mosque following the murder of soldier Lee Rigby.

BYLINE: By dailyrecord

SECTION: NEWS,SCOTTISH NEWS

LENGTH: 119 words


A FORMER football starlet was fined £1000 yesterday for a Facebook comment about
torching a mosque after the murder of soldier Lee Rigby.

Ex-St Johnstone youth player Ryan Harbinson, 19, posted: "Any one up for
starting our own series of terrorist attacks, little bit of petroleum would set
fire to the mosque nicely."

It was reported to police on May 23 last year, the day after Fusilier Rigby was
killed by two Islamic extremists in London.

Falkirk Sheriff Court heard the Grangemouth teenager's football career ended
when he was stabbed in 2011.

He blamed the Facebook comments on post traumatic stress disorder and said he
"very much regrets" it.

Harbinson was found guilty of breach of the peace by Sheriff John Mundy.

LOAD-DATE: September 5, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDAR


                      Copyright 2014 Trinity Mirror, Plc.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              252 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                          The Daily Telegraph (London)

                              July 18, 2014 Friday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

EIGHT BRITONS FEARED DEAD IN 'TERROR ATTACK';
Airliner blown out of the sky Pro-Russian separatists blamed for killing 295 on
Malaysian jet Ukraine pleads for support from Obama in full-scale crisis Ukraine
calls on Britain to give military support

BYLINE: Martin Evans; Gordon Rayner

SECTION: NEWS; FRONT PAGE, TEASERS; Pg. 1,5

LENGTH: 900 words


EIGHT Britons were feared to be among 295 people killed yesterday when a
Malaysia Airlines passenger jet was apparently shot down over war-torn Ukraine.

Pro-Russian separatists, backed by Moscow, were thought to have downed the
airliner after mistaking it for a Ukrainian military plane. One rebel leader
boasted on a social networking site about shooting down an aircraft that had
entered "our skies".

There is now a full-blown diplomatic crisis between Russia and the West. Ukraine
ramped up the pressure on Russia still further by claiming it had intercepted
calls between two Russian military intelligence officers that showed Russian
involvement in the disaster.

Valentyn Nalivaychenko, Ukraine's state security chief, said: "Now you know who
carried out this crime. We will do everything for the Russian military who
carried out this crime to be punished."

President Barack Obama and David Cameron faced calls from Ukraine's government
to provide military support. There will be an emergency meeting of the UN
Security Council tonight.

With 23 Americans reported to be among the dead, Mr Obama will come under
intense pressure to respond with more than just sanctions against Russia and the
rebel forces. Mr Obama spoke to Russian president Vladimir Putin about the
crash, though the call took place just moments after the news broke, and before
reports that Americans were on board.

Mr Cameron expressed his "shock and sadness" at the tragedy as officials from
across Whitehall met to discuss their response. Petro Poroshenko, the Ukrainian
president described the incident as a "terrorist attack". Kiev claimed that
flight MH17 from Amsterdam to Kuala Lumpur was brought down by a Buk
surface-to-air missile of a type captured by the rebels only weeks ago.

Meanwhile rebel leaders claimed that the aircraft had been downed by a Ukrainian
fighter jet.

The incident happened just four months after the same airline lost another
passenger jet, flight MH370, en route from Kuala Lumpur to Beijing, though there
are no suggestions that the two tragedies are in any way linked. The Boeing 777
took off from Schipol airport with 280 passengers and 15 crew on board at
11.30am BST, and was cruising at 33,000ft when it disappeared from radar
screens.

Burning wreckage was scattered across a nine-mile wide area close to the village
of Grabovo in the Donetsk region, 25 miles from the Russian border. Less than
two hours after the crash, one of the leaders of the pro-Russian rebels, Igor
Strelkov, who is fighting Ukrainian government forces for control of eastern
Ukraine, boasted on a social networking site that his men had just shot down an
aircraft. He wrote: "In the district of Torez an An-26 was just shot down. We
warned them not to fly in 'our skies'. Here is video confirmation of the latest
'fallen bird'. The bird landed outside the residential zone, no peaceful
civilians were injured."

Mr Poroshenko said: "MH17 is not an incident or catastrophe, it is a terrorist
attack."

Witnesses reported seeing more than 100 bodies on the ground, fully clothed and
unmarked, some still strapped into their seats and surrounded by their luggage.
One local said: "I was working in the field on my tractor when I heard the sound
of a plane and then a bang. Then I saw the plane hit the ground and break in
two. There was thick black smoke."

Andrii Kuzmenko, the Ukrainian charge d'affairs, called on Britain to give his
country military support for the first time since the conflict began in
February.

He said: "We would like to hear from the British government comprehensive
support of Ukraine at the economical dimension, and at the military and
technical dimensions. The support could help us to respond properly to the
aggression we are facing."

Yuriy Sergeyev, Ukraine's UN ambassador, said: "Ukraine will present the
evidence of Russian military involvement into the Boeing crash. This crime
should be fully investigated."

Speaking at an event in Delaware, Mr Obama said: "Right now we're working to
determine whether there were American citizens on board.

"That is our first priority and I've directed my national security team to stay
in close contact with the Ukrainian government. The US will offer any assistance
we can to determine what happened and why."

Air crash investigators were heading to the scene last night, and the black box
flight recorder had reportedly been located.

Najib Razak, the Malaysian prime minister, said: "I am shocked by reports that
an MH plane crashed. We are launching an immediate investigation."

This week the US stepped up sanctions against Moscow after receiving
intelligence about a dozens of armoured vehicles crossing the border into
eastern Ukraine over the weekend.

Security sources said 150 vehicles including tanks, armoured personnel carriers,
and rocket launchers had crossed the border on Sunday night, under the cover of
darkness as the World Cup Final was being played.

The Daily Telegraph understands it represents one of the largest single
deliveries of military hardware to Ukraine's separatist rebels since fighting
began three months ago.

Last night there were questions as to why a commercial passenger jet was flying
over a region where three aircraft had been shot down in the past week.

On Monday a Ukrainian military transport plane was downed by a missile and on
Wednesday two military jets were also hit by missiles in the region.

LOAD-DATE: July 18, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: DMITRY LOVETSKY
Wreckage and human remains from Malaysia Airlines flight MH17 were strewn across
Officials in Kiev blamed pro-Russian separatists for bringing the airliner down
with a missile

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DTL


                  Copyright 2014 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              253 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                          The Daily Telegraph (London)

                              July 18, 2014 Friday
                                   Edition 2;
                                National Edition

SIX BRITONS KILLED IN 'TERROR ATTACK';
Airliner blown out of the sky Pro-Russian separatists blamed for killing 295 on
Malaysian jet Ukraine pleads for support from Obama in full-scale crisis Ukraine
calls on Britain to give military support

BYLINE: Martin Evans; Gordon Rayner

SECTION: NEWS; FRONT PAGE; Pg. 1,5

LENGTH: 934 words


AT LEAST SIX Britons were con-firmed among 295 people killed yesterday when a
Malaysia Airlines passenger jet was apparently shot down over war-torn Ukraine.

Pro-Russian separatists, backed by Moscow, were thought to have downed the
airliner, which was en route from Amsterdam to Kuala Lumpur, after mistaking it
for a Ukrainian military plane. One rebel leader boasted on a social networking
site about shooting down an aircraft that had entered "our skies". There is now
a full-blown diplomatic crisis between Russia and the West. Ukraine ramped up
the pressure on Russia still further by claiming it had intercepted calls
between two Russian military intelligence officers that showed Russian
involvement in the disaster.

Joseph Biden, the American vice president, also said at a press conference that
the Boeing 777 was "apparently" shot down. It was "not an accident," he said. It
was "blown out of the sky." There will be an emergency meeting of the UN
Security Council this afternoon.

Huib Gorter, the Malaysia Airlines senior vice president, said there were at
least 154 Dutch, 27 Australians, 23 Malaysians, 11 Indonesians, six Britons,
four Germans, four Belgians, three Filipinos and one Canadian aboard the Boeing
777.

There were a further 47 passengers whose nationality was not con-firmed last
night. All the 15 flight crew were Malaysian.

Valentyn Nalivaychenko, Ukraine's state security chief, said: "Now you know who
carried out this crime. We will do everything for the Russian military who
carried out this crime to be punished."

Barack Obama and David Cameron faced calls from Ukraine's government to provide
military support. With several Americans reported to be among the dead, Mr Obama
will come under intense pressure to respond with more than just sanctions
against Russia.

Mr Putin last night did not address claims his military had shot down the
airliner, saying instead that Ukraine "bears the full responsibility for this
terrible tragedy".

Kiev said that armed separatists had prevented investigators from recovering the
aircraft's black boxes. The rebels claimed they were prepared to hold a
ceasefire while the scene was investigated. Mr Cameron expressed his "shock and
sadness" at the tragedy.

Petro Poroshenko, the Ukrainian president described the incident as a "terrorist
attack". Kiev claimed that flight MH17 was brought down by a Buk surface-to-air
missile of a type captured by the rebels only weeks ago.

US intelligence believes a surface-to-air missile was fired at the aircraft. But
the intelligence has not confirmed the origin of the missile.

Rebel leaders claimed that the aircraft had been downed by a Ukrainian fighter
jet. The incident happened just four months after the same airline lost another
passenger jet, flight MH370, en route from Kuala Lumpur to Beijing. The Boeing
777 took off from Schiphol airport with 280 passengers and 15 crew on board at
11.30am BST, and was cruising at 33,000ft when it disappeared from radar
screens.

Burning wreckage an human remains were scattered across a nine-mile wide area
close to the village of Grabovo in the Donetsk region, 25 miles from the Russian
border. Last night Ukraine's security service released what it said was an
intercepted telephone conversation in which Igor Bezler, a rebel leader and
alleged Russian intelligence officer, says: "We have just shut down a plane".

In a second conversation, separatists allegedly express their surprise at
realising the plane was a civilian airliner. "There are lots of corpses of women
and children," says one.

When asked what a civilian flight was doing above Ukraine, another militant
reportedly replies: "That means they were carrying spies. They shouldn't be
f------ flying. There is a war going on."

Mr Poroshenko said: "MH17 is not an incident or catastrophe, it is a terrorist
attack."

Witnesses reported seeing more than 100 bodies on the ground, fully clothed and
unmarked, some still strapped into their seats and surrounded by their luggage.
One local said: "I was working in the field on my tractor when I heard the sound
of a plane and then a bang. Then I saw the plane hit the ground and break in
two. There was thick black smoke."

Andrii Kuzmenko, the Ukrainian chargé d'affaires, called on Britain to give his
country military support for the first time since the conflict began in
February. He said: "We would like to hear from the British government
comprehensive support of Ukraine at the economical dimension, and at the
military and technical dimensions. The support could help us to respond properly
to the aggression we are facing."

Yuriy Sergeyev, Ukraine's UN ambassador, said: "Ukraine will present the
evidence of Russian military involvement into the Boeing crash. This crime
should be fully investigated."

Last night Mr Obama said: "Right now we're working to determine whether there
were American citizens on board. The US will offer any assistance we can to
determine what happened and why."

Najib Razak, the Malaysian prime minister, demanded swift justice for those
responsible. He said Malaysia had not been able to verify what caused the plane
to crash, but said that it had not made a distress call. He added that he had
agreed in talks with President Barack Obama that investigators must get full
access to the site of the crash. "The Ukrainian authorities believe that the
plane was shot down," Mr Razak said in the statement. "We must, and we will,
find out precisely what happened to this www.flight.No stone will be left
unturned."

He added that Malaysia was sending a special flight to Kiev with a disaster
assistance team.

LOAD-DATE: July 18, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: DMITRY LOVETSKY
Wreckage and human remains from Malaysia Airlines flight MH17 were strewn across
a nine-mile wide area near the village of Grabovo in eastern Ukraine. Officials
in Kiev blamed pro-Russian separatists for bringing the airliner down with a
missile

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DTL


                  Copyright 2014 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              254 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                          Daily Record and Sunday Mail

                              July 18, 2014 Friday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

Teen fined for terror attack Facebook jibe

BYLINE: LAURA PATERSON

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 30

LENGTH: 119 words


A FORMER football starlet was fined £1000 yesterday for a Facebook comment about
torching a mosque after the murder of soldier Lee Rigby.

Ex-St Johnstone youth player Ryan Harbinson, 19, posted: "Any one up for
starting our own series of terrorist attacks, little bit of petroleum would set
fire to the mosque nicely."

It was reported to police on May 23 last year, the day after Fusilier Rigby was
killed by two Islamic extremists in London.

Falkirk Sheriff Court heard the Grangemouth teenager's football career ended
when he was stabbed in 2011.

He blamed the Facebook comments on post traumatic stress disorder and said he
"very much regrets" it.

Harbinson was found guilty of breach of the peace by Sheriff John Mundy.

LOAD-DATE: July 18, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: AT COURT Ryan Harbinson

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DRC


             Copyright 2014 Scottish Daily Record & Sunday Mail Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                              255 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                   MailOnline

                        July 18, 2014 Friday 8:04 AM GMT

Faces of the innocent victims: Melbourne real estate agent and his wife, a
student and leading AIDS doctors confirmed dead in Flight Mhl7 terrorist attack
that killed all 298 people on board

BYLINE: SARAH MICHAEL, SALLY LEE, CANDACE SUTTON, MICHAEL SEAMARK, DARREN BOYLE,
DANIEL MILLS and LILLIAN RADULOVA

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 7801 words



     ·    Malaysian Airlines flight Mhl shot down over territory held by
          Pro-Russian rebels in eastern Ukraine
     ·    Body parts and wreckage spread over nine-mile area, suggesting plane
          broke up mid-air
     ·    Airlines had been advised to cease flights over the region which is
          'effectively a war zone'
     ·    Dutch officials have said that 28 Australians are among the dead
     ·    Prime Minister Tony Abbott extended his most profound condolences to
          the families of Australian victims.
     ·    Australians concerned about their loved ones can call the DFAT hotline
          on 1300 555 135
     ·    Ukrainian interior ministry says plane was shot down by a BUK
          surface-to-air missile
     ·    President Petro Poroshenko issued robust denial that his forces were
          involved, and calls crash an 'act of terrorism'
     ·    Ukraine's state security chief accuses Russian military intelligence
          officers of involvement in crash
     ·    US senator John McCain vows there will be 'hell to pay' if missile was
          fired by rebels or Russian backers


A Victorian real estate agent, his wife, a Perth management consultant, a
Melbourne university student and a Sydney Catholic nun were among the 298 people
on board Malaysia Airlines flight Mhl that was shot down on the Russian-Ukraine
border.

The Boeing 777 aircraft was travelling from Amsterdam to Kuala Lumpur when it
was hit by a sophisticated surface-to-air missile over territory near Donetsk
held by pro-Russian rebels who the Ukrainian government says are backed by the
Kremlin.

The plane was shot down in an 'act of terrorism', killing all 298 passengers and
crew on board including 28 Australians.

Russian President Vladimir Putin has blamed Ukraine for the tragedy.

Malaysia Airlines has confirmed that 154 Dutch, 43 Malaysian (including 15 crew
and two infants), 12 Indonesian, nine British, four German, three Filipino, and
one Canadian citizen were also on the plane.

The airline added that all European flights operated by Malaysia Airlines will
now be taking alternative routes, avoiding the usual route over Ukraine.

Perth man Nick Norris and his grandchildren Mo, 12, Evie, 10, and Otis Maslin,
eight, were on board Mhl.

Scroll down for videos

Mr Norris, the managing director of management consulting firm Collaborative
Systemic Change Pty Ltd, is survived by his son Brack, who is the company's
marketing manager, and daughter Kirstin, a marine engineer with the Royal
Australian Navy. He was a well-known member of the South Perth Yacht Club.

A Catholic nun from Sydney was also on board the flight. Sister Philomena, a
teacher at girls' high school Kincoppal-Rose Bay, was the relative of school
students at St Mary's Catholic Primary School in North Sydney.

It has been confirmed that Malaysian student Elaine Teoh, who had been studying
at Melbourne University, was also on the flight, Channel Nine reported.

Recently retired pathologist Roger Guard and his wife Jill from Toowoomba in
Queensland, have also been identified from the Mhl flight.

Tawoomba's Mayor Paul Antonio said the entire Darling Down's community would be
shaken by the tragic news, reported the Brisbane Times.

Dr Guard was well regarded in the medical community, acting as the director
within the Pathology Queensland laboratory in Toowoomba Hospital. He also helped
perform autopsies on the victims of the Queensland flood and was well known for
organising local marathon events in his local community for the Toowoomba Road
Runner fitness group.

A Victorian couple Frankie Davison and her husband Liam were on Mhl. Mrs Davison
was a teacher at Toorak College Community, south-east of Melbourne.

'Toorak College Community is saddened by the loss of much loved teacher Frankie
Davison and her husband Liam who were on the Malaysian Airlines flight that was
brought down over Ukraine, this morning,' said a statement on the college
Facebook page.

'Our hearts and sympathy goes out to their children Milly and Sam, and family.
We are devastated by the news of this tragedy.'

Victorian real estate agent, Albert Rizk, and his wife Marie also died in the
crash.

AUSTRALIANS ON Mhl - WHERE WERE THEY FROM?

Premiers and chief ministers from around the country have confirmed their
state's number of victims in the Mhl tragedy. They are:

Victoria - Nine

Queensland - Nine

Western Australia - Seven

NSW - One

Canberra - One

Please note: DFAT has warned the Australian death toll could rise as the
nationality of 41 victims on board has not yet been confirmed

They had been in Europe on holidays for several weeks. They had been travelling
with family friends who took an earlier flight and were waiting for the Rizks to
arrive home in Sunbury, Victoria, where they were high-profile members of a
tight-knit community.

Mr Rizk was a director of Raine & Horne in Sunbury.

President of the Sunbury Football Club Phil Lithgow said Mr Rizk was a sponsor
of the AFL club as well as an enthusiastic community worker and his wife worked
in the club canteen.

Do you know anyone affected by the Mhl tragedy? Contact
sarah.michael@mailonline.com or +612 9383 6691

The couple's son James, who is also a real estate agent, plays football for the
Sunbury club.

'He is a very good footballer and Albert and Marie were just lovely people,' Mr
Lithgow told Daily Mail Australia.

'It is a shock to us all, Albert was just such a community person in the area.'

A spokesman for The University of Melbourne released a statement saying they
were 'saddened' to hear reports about one of their students.

'Ms Teoh graduated from the University of Melbourne with a Bachelor of Commerce
in 2008,' the spokesman said.

'Our thoughts are with her family and friends at this time.'

The spokesman added that the university was distressed to learn that HIV and
AIDS researchers were on the flight.

'This is a terrible loss to the global research community at a time when we were
getting ready to welcome them to the World AIDS Conference in Melbourne to share
the latest advances in the field,' the spokesman said.

'The impact of this devastating loss will no doubt be felt among the global
research community for years to come.'

There are unconfirmed reports that two Shell company employees may have been
aboard Mhl returning from a trip to Shell's Amsterdam head office.

'We are aware of the incident involving the Malaysia Airlines plane and we're
checking to see if any colleagues were on board,' a Shell Australia spokesman
said.

Victorian Premier Denis Napthine confirmed Mhl was to connect with Mhl9 arriving
in Melbourne this evening.

'It is with deep regret that I can now confirm nine Australian nationals from
Victoria are among those who have been killed in the Mhl tragedy,' he said.

'This is a sad and tragic day, not just for Victorians, but for all people and
all nations. The shooting down of a passenger aircraft full of innocent
civilians is an unspeakable act that will forever leave a dark stain on our
history.'

Queensland Premier Campbell Newman says it is believed nine people on board were
Queenslanders. Western Australian Premier Colin Barnett said seven people from
WA had been on board. A spokeswoman for the ACT Chief Minister confirmed one
Canberran was on the flight.

NSW Premier Mike Baird said: 'Sadly, we have been advised that one person from
NSW was on board the flight and I extend my sympathies and offer my support to
their family and friends.'

Also among the passengers were medical experts travelling to Melbourne for the
International Aids Conference that was to officially begin tomorrow. At least
100 passengers on board Mhl were bound for the conference, the Sydney Morning
Herald reported.

Leading HIV researchers, including former president of the International AIDS
Society Joep Lange, were en route to the 20th International AIDS Conference,
AIDS2014, which was to begin this weekend.

Daily Mail Australia has confirmed AIDS lobbyist Pim de Kuijer and other
researchers Martine de Schutter and Lucie van Mens were on the flight, along
with World Health Organisation media relations coordinator Glenn Thomas.

Dutch officials have confirmed 27 Australians were on board, but the Department
of Foreign Affairs and Trade warned that number could climb higher because the
nationalities of all those on board are not yet known.

Prime Minister Tony Abbott said he extended his most profound condolences to the
families of Australian victims.

'All I can say is that this would be the grimmest of grim mornings for the
family and the loved ones of Australians on that plane,' he told The Today Show.

'Our heart goes out to them, our prayers are with them and whatever assistance
we humanly can offer we will because Australians stick by each other in times of
trouble.'

Mr Abbott added: 'If it has been brought down by a missile that is an
unspeakable crime and we should be filled with revulsion against anything that
would do something horrible to innocent people.'

UKRAINE AND RUSSIA BLAME EACH OTHER FOR THE ATTACK

Russian President Vladimir Putin has blamed Ukraine for the tragedy that claimed
the lives of all 298 people on board, including around 100 children - but didn't
deny Russian-backed separatists were to blame for shooting it out of the sky.

Ukrainian authorities laid the blame for the attack on the rebels by denying any
responsibility for the missile launch, with President Petro Poroshenko called
the downing an act of terrorism as he called for an international investigation
into the crash.

TV pictures from the scene showed a pall of smoke billowing into the sky near
Donetsk, apparently from the stricken flight Mhl.

Witnesses say body parts are scattered over a distance of 15km, suggesting the
plane broke up in mid-air.

AUSTRALIAN CONSULAR STAFF TRYING TO ACCESS CRASH SITE

Foreign Minister Julie Bishop said she wanted the crash to be the subject of a
'detailed international inquiry'.

'We are seeking access to the crash site and we are seeking to send consular
staff from Warsaw to the crash site,' she said.

Commenting on reports Russian separatists had taken the plane's black box, Ms
Bishop said: 'Regardless of the circumstances we urge the separatists to
cooperate with an investigation into this crash. If they have taken the black
box that must be returned to authorities immediately.'

She added: 'This incident underlines the urgent need to deescalate the tensions
and the situation in eastern Ukraine.'

A Department of Foreign Affairs and Trade spokeswoman said anyone with concerns
for the welfare of Australian family or friends should attempt to directly
contact them.

If unable to contact them, people are urged to call DFAT's 24-hour Consular
Emergency Centre on + 61 2 6261 3305 from overseas, or 1300 555 135 within
Australia.

Ms Bishop said the hotline had received 170 calls by 9am.

AUSTRALIA-BOUND MALAYSIA AIRLINES PASSENGERS BREAK DOWN IN TEARS

Malaysia Airlines passengers landing at Sydney Airport from Kuala Lumpur this
morning have told of passengers bursting into tears when they learned the fate
of those on board flight Mhl, while others said they would be cancelling future
flights with the airline.

The 10am flight Mhl may well have had passengers on board the doomed Mhl if it
had not been shot down by terrorists in the Ukraine.

Olivia Pasternak, and friend Lucy Larkin, both 20, had flown home to Sydney from
the Malaysian capital after a holiday in Vietnam.

They were seated next to a pair of Dutch travellers who burst into tears when
they learned of the 153 fellow nationals who perished in the crash. They were
still on the plane when they heard the news.

'It was so sad,' Ms Pasternak said.

'We were on the Tarmac for so long we checked our phones and started reading it
all online.'

'There was a Dutch family near us and they broke down.'

Mhl - WHO WAS ON BOARD?

Among those thought to have been on board were:

154 Dutch

43 Malaysian

27 Australian

12 Indonesian

Nine British

Four German

Four Belgian

Three Filipino

One Canadian

41 unverified

The identities of others on board are yet to be determined

CONDOLENCES FOR PEOPLE WHO DIED ON WAY TO MELBOURNE CONFERENCE

Friends and colleagues of Mhl victims travelling to the 20th International AIDS
Conference in Melbourne have expressed their condolences.

Former US President Bill Clinton is one of the speakers at the conference, along
with musician activist Sir Bob Geldolf and UNAIDS Executive Director Michel
Sidibé.

U.S doctor Seema Yasmin described Dr Lange, who is believed to be a father to
five girls, as 'a kind man and a true humanitarian'.

She posted a series of tweets dedicated to Dr Lange, who was also the former
president of the International AIDS Society.

'I find out someone I've known at least half my life was on the plane. #Mhl,'
she wrote.

'How do we measure how much a person has done for humanity? People like Joep
change the course of epidemics.'

Yvette Fleming, manager of Stop Aids Now, tweeted there were other colleagues on
board the flight with Dr Lange.

'In shock! Lucie van Mens, Martine de Schutter, Pim de Kuijer, Joep Lange and
Jacqueline van Tongeren never arrived in Melbourne!' she wrote.

Daily Mail Australia has confirmed AIDS lobbyist Pim de Kuijer and other
researchers Martine de Schutter and Lucie van Mens were on the flight.

WHO media adviser Mr Thomas, 49, was a British national and a former journalist
and BBC reporter who originally came from north-west England.

A colleague and friend of his, photographer Rob Underdown told Daily Mail
Australia Mr Thomas had been looking forward to travelling to Australia in his
role as media relations co-ordinator for the World Health Organisation.

Mr Underdown, who said Mr Thomas was an all round nice guy with whom he had
worked around 23 years ago in Blackpool, lived with his partner and had a sister
living in Spain.

He had last been in contact a few weeks ago on Facebook, when Mr Thomas told him
he was off to the Melbourne AIDS conference.

He said he would get together with a group of Mr Thomas's old friends in the
British media to remember him.

US WARNS THERE WILL BE 'HELL TO PAY' IF MISSILE FIRE CONFIRMED

As shocking pictures of bodies and debris emerged, the tragedy sparked a
full-blown international crisis last night, increasing tension between Moscow
and Washington.

Mr Putin said: 'This tragedy would not have happened if there were peace on this
land, if the military actions had not been renewed in south-east Ukraine. And,
certainly, the state over whose territory this occurred bears responsibility for
this awful tragedy.'

Officials for the Obama administration - which had only yesterday stepped up
sanctions against Russia for backing the separatists - confirmed the plane was
hit by a single missile while at cruising speed and U.S. Vice President Joe
Biden said that 'it was not an accident', adding it was 'blown out of the sky'.

Biden, who had talked with Ukrainian President Poroshenko on the phone, is the
most senior US official to raise the idea that the aircraft was deliberately
brought down - but he did not divulge who he thought was responsible.

While Ukraine and Russia blamed each other, US senator John McCain vowed there
would be 'hell to pay' if it was confirmed that the surface-to-air missile had
been fired by the rebels or their Russian backers. Ukraine claimed to have
intercepted a phone call between separatists and Russian intelligence boasting
of downing the jet, while one rebel commander tweeted: 'We warned you - do not
fly in "our sky".'

Airlines were advised to cease flights over the region - and faced questions as
to why commercial jets had been flying over what is effectively a war zone.

Last night there was speculation that the doomed Flight Mhl had taken a
short-cut across the disputed region of eastern Ukraine to save fuel.

As relatives gathered at airports for news of missing loved ones, it emerged
that airlines had twice been warned about the risk of flying over an area where
two Ukrainian military aircraft had already been shot down this week.

In April, the International Civil Aviation Organisation advised carriers to
consider alternative routes after outlining 'the possible existence of serious
risks to the safety of international civil flights'.

On Monday, Eurocontrol - the body that coordinates all traffic across European
airspace - sent out an official note to airmen, known as a Notam, repeating the
warning and saying it 'strongly advises' avoiding the airspace.

But many carriers continued to use the route because it was shorter and
therefore cheaper.

Russian President Vladimir Putin and US President Barack Obama were speaking by
telephone in a pre-arranged call when news of the tragedy began to emerge.

Flight Mhl had taken off from Amsterdam at lunchtime and was flying at around
33,000ft on one of the main routes from Europe to Asia when it was struck by the
missile. It came down near a poultry farm in the village of Grabovo, an area
controlled by pro-Russian rebels about 30 miles from the Ukraine-Russia border.

Witnesses claimed to have seen bodies falling out of the stricken plane over the
village of Rassypnaya. Some residents feared they were being bombed.

Aleks Noit, whose relatives live nearby, said more than a dozen corpses, some
naked, were strewn around the village.

'Wreckage and bodies fell on the private houses in the village and near the
hospital. People in  uniform collected the  corpses,' he said.

Others described an entire field covered in debris from the plane and body parts
scattered across an area up to nine miles in diameter, suggesting the plane
broke up in mid-air.

BRITAIN CALLS FOR INTERNATIONAL INVESTIGATION INTO CAUSE OF CRASH

Schiphol Airport boss Jos Nijhuis confirmed at a press conference in Amsterdam
that there had been six British people on board.

The new British Foreign secretary Philip Hammond said tonight he believes there
were British nationals among those on board the plane but does not have detailed
information as to the exact number, or what had caused the plane to crash.

Speaking at the Foreign Office following emergency talks with ministers and
officials, he called for an international investigation led by the United
Nations to establish exactly what happened to the aircraft.

'I'm deeply shocked by this appalling incident and I send my heartfelt
condolences to all those who may have lost family and friends. We're determined
to get to the bottom of understanding what has happened here,' he said.

'As yet we do not have any definitive information about how this incident
occurred and I don't want to speculate at this stage. We believe that there must
be a UN-led international investigation of the facts.'

He said that Britain was prepared to make Air Accident Investigation Branch
assets and specialists available to assist such an investigation.

Prime Minister David Cameron said: 'I'm shocked and saddened by the Malaysian
air disaster. Officials from across Whitehall are meeting to establish the
facts.'

He has summoned officials from across Whitehall for urgent talks at 7pm to
discuss the latest on the crash, and what is known about any British casualties.

A Whitehall source said that this evening's meeting was involving Government
officials, rather than ministers, and was focused on establishing what needs to
be done for any British citizens caught up in the incident.

Britain has also requested an urgent meeting of the United Nations Security
Council in New York, the Foreign Office said.

The Foreign Office is also in talks with consular teams in Amsterdam and Kuala
Lumpur to obtain passenger lists to establish how many UK nationals were on
board.

'We are aware of the reports and are urgently working to establish what has
happened,' a Foreign Office spokesman said.

Asked about reports that up to 10 British people had been on board, the
spokesman added: 'Our first priority is to establish if there are any British
persons on board but we are not in a position to go beyond that line.'

US VICE PRESIDENT SAYS CRASH 'NOT AN ACCIDENT'

Meanwhile, Russian President Vladimir Putin in a telephone conversation told
U.S. President Barack Obama that a Malaysian airplane crashed on Ukrainian
territory, the Kremlin said.

The two leaders held a pre-planned call on the situation in Ukraine during which
information became available from air traffic controllers about the crash.

Twenty-three Americans are feared dead in the crash, which President Barack
Obama called a 'terrible tragedy'.

The president spoke briefly about the crash as he appeared in Wilmington,
Delaware on Thursday afternoon and said his national security team are working
to determine if there were any U.S. citizens on board the plane that was
carrying 298 people to Kuala Lumpur.

DESIGNED TO PROVIDE AIR DEFENCE FOR TROOPS FACING ATTACK: WHAT IS A BUK MISSILE
LAUNCHER?

The BUK missile system is a set of medium range surface-to-air missile systems
which were first developed in the Soviet Union and continue to be produced by
Russia.

Designed to take out cruise missiles, aircrafts, helicopters and short range
ballistic missiles, they can reach altitudes of up to 15.5miles, according to
the manufacturer's website.

Developed by Moscow firm Almaz-Antey, they are thought to have been used during
the Russian war with Georgia in the territory of South Ossetia in 2008.

The manufacturer's website, which also lists military equipment including radar
and naval missile systems, displays two models of Buk launchers - the Buk-M1-2
and the Buk-M2E.

A description of the Buk-M1-2, which has an altitude target range of up to 25km
(15.5 miles or 82,000ft), reads: 'The "Buk-M1-2" ADMC is designed to provide air
defence for troops and facilities against attacks from current and future
high-speed manoeuvring tactical and strategic aircraft, attack helicopters
including hovering helicopters, and tactical ballistic, cruise, and air-to-air
missiles, in conditions of heavy radio jamming and counter fire; as well as to
destroy water and ground surface targets.'

Meanwhile, the Buk-M2E 'is designed to destroy tactical and strategic aircraft,
helicopters, cruise missiles, and other aerodynamic aircraft at any point in
their range of operation, along with tactical ballistic and aircraft missiles,
and smart air bombs in conditions of heavy enemy counter fire and radio jamming;
as well as to attack water and ground surface contrast targets.'

'Our thoughts and prayers are with all the passengers' families,' he added.

Vice President Joe Biden, who was traveling to Detroit, spoke on the phone with
President Poroshenko when he offered assistance to help determine what happened
to the downed Boeing 777 and why, the White House said.

Biden said described the crash as apparently 'not an accident' and that the
passenger jet was 'blown out of the sky' in a speech in Detroit, in which he
said determining whether Americans had been on board was the first priority for
the United States.

Najib Razak, the Malaysian prime minister, said: 'I am shocked by reports that
an MH plane crashed. We are launching an immediate investigation.'

Later, addressing a press briefing, he described it as: 'A tragic day in a
tragic year', adding that the Malaysia Airlines jetliner did not make any
distress call before it went down in Ukraine, and that the flight route was
declared safe by the International Civil Aviation Organization.

'The Ukrainian authorities believe that the plane was shot down,' Najib said in
the statement.

'At this stage, however, Malaysia is unable to verify the cause of this tragedy.
But we must, and we will, find out precisely what happened to this flight. No
stone will be left unturned.

'If it transpires that the plane was indeed shot down, we insist that the
perpetrators must swiftly be brought to justice.'

SHOT OUT OF THE SKY: OTHER PLANES HIT MID-FLIGHT

April 20, 1978: Korean Airlines Flight 902, which diverted from its planned
course on a flight from Paris to Seoul and strayed over the Soviet Union.

After being fired upon by an interceptor aircraft, the crew made a forced
landing at night on the surface of a frozen lake. Two of the 97 passengers were
killed by the hostile fire

September 1, 1983:

Korean Air Lines Flight 007 shot down by at least one Soviet air-to-air missile
after the 747 had strayed into Soviet airspace. All 240 passengers and 29 crew
were killed

July 3, 1988:

Iran Air Flight 655 Aircraft was shot down by a surface to air missile from the
American naval vessel U.S.S. Vincennes. All 16 crew and 274 passengers were
killed

He said also that Malaysia was sending a special flight to Kiev with a disaster
assistance and rescue team.

Dutch Prime Minister Mark Rutte, who had been attending a European Union summit
in Brussels, has headed back to the Netherlands to deal with fall-out from the
crash.

The aircraft, which was carrying 280 passengers and 15 crew, was flying between
Amsterdam and Kuala Lumpur after taking off at lunchtime today.

It is believed the plane was struck by BUK surface-to-air missile at 33,000ft
around 20 miles before entering Russian airspace.

The missile system is an old Soviet-built weapon designed to engage light
aircraft, cruise missiles and drones.

Ukrainian President Poroshenko issued a robust denial that his forces were
involved in shooting down the plane, saying: 'We do not exclude that this plane
was shot down, and we stress that the Armed Forces of Ukraine did not take
action against any airborne targets.'

'We are sure that those who are guilty in this tragedy will be held
responsible,' he added.

Ukraine's state security chief accused two Russian military intelligence
officers of involvement in the downing of a Malaysian passenger plane in eastern
Ukraine on Thursday and said they must be punished for their 'crime'.

SBU chief Valentyn Nalivaychenko said he based his allegation on intercepts of
phone conversations between the two officers.

'Now you know who carried out this crime. We will do everything for the Russian
military who carried out this crime to be punished,' he told journalists.

Pro-Russian rebels denied they were involved in the attack, saying they believed
the plane had been shot down by the Ukrianian air force.

One pro-Russia rebel leader said they now  intend to call a three-day ceasefire
to allow an investigation of the crash.

Rebel leader Alexander Borodai told the RIA-Novosti agency that discussions were
under way with Ukrainian authorities on calling the short truce for humanitarian
reasons.

He said international organisations would be allowed into the region.

Earlier, pro-Russia rebels claimed responsibility for surface-to-air missile on
two Ukrainian Sukhoi-25 jets yesterday.

The Ukrainian Defense Ministry said the second jet was hit by a portable
surface-to-air missile - not a BUK - adding that the pilot was unscathed and
managed to land his plane safely.

Defence experts have expressed fears in the past they could be used to target at
civil aircraft.

Earlier, defence analyst Major Charles Heyman, who edited a book called Armed
Forces of the European Union, believes it could have been downed by a 'slack'
Ukraine air defence centre.

He told Sky News: 'It looks like confusion. It's possible that Ukraine thought
it was hostile and not civilian and shot it down.'

Malaysian Airlines said they have no information about any survivors.

In a tweet, the airline said: 'Malaysia Airlines has lost contact of Mhl from
Amsterdam. The last known position was over Ukrainian airspace. More details to
follow.'

A Boeing spokesman said: 'Our thoughts and prayers are with those on board the
Malaysia Airlines airplane lost over Ukrainian airspace, as well as their
families and loved ones.

'Boeing stands ready to provide whatever assistance is requested by
authorities.'

As the drama unfolded, several other passenger jets were flying through
Ukrainian airspace on one of the main routes from Europe to Asia for air
traffic.

Today's calamity will prompt questions about why the route was still being used
given previous incidents.

A UK Civil Aviation Authority (CAA) spokesman said: 'The Ukrainian authorities
are responsible for managing their airspace and the UK or other countries cannot
enforce airspace restrictions in the area.

'However, the CAA has previously issued advice to UK airlines on operating in
this area and following this incident, Eurocontrol (the European air traffic
control body) has issued advice to airlines to plan routes that avoid the area.'

This evening, the Department for Transport in London said flights were now being
diverted.

A DfT spokesman said: 'Flights already airborne are being routed around the area
by air traffic control in the region. Pilots around the world have been advised
to plan routes that avoid the area by Eurocontrol, the European organisation for
the safety of air navigation.'

Airliner tracking sites seemed to indicated that traffic was now steering clear
of Ukrainian airspace, and other airlines said they would be monitoring the
situation, and re-routing flights if needed.

Why was Mhl flying through a warzone? European safety watchdog warned against
using Ukraine airspace since APRIL

Air accident investigators are planning to inspect the proposed flight plan
lodged by pilots on board Malaysian Airlines flight Mhl.

The 17-year-old jet was shot down over Donetsk in Eastern Ukraine despite
commercial aircraft being warned against using the airspace because of the
ongoing conflict.

One of the major questions is whether the Malaysian flight crew received the
warning from flight safety officials about the risk to safety.

The jet was travelling at 33,000 feet at 490 knots when it disappeared from
radar screens over Donetsk.

It is believed that the Malaysian Airlines pilots ignored several warnings to
avoid the airspace over Ukraine. It is understood the Malaysian Airline jet used
the Ukrainian route to save fuel as diverting north or south would have taken
longer.

In April, the European Aviation and Safety Agency warned: 'Taking into
consideration the recent publication by the Russian Federation of a series of
notices to airmen (NOTAMs) modifying the Simferopol FIR which is under the
responsibility of Ukraine, and their intent to provide air traffic services
(ATS) within this airspace, the Agency draws the aviation communities' attention
to the possible existence of serious risks to the safety of international civil
flights.

'Due to the unsafe situation where more than one ATS provider may be controlling
flights within the same airspace from 3 April 2014, 0600 UTC onwards,
consideration should be given to measures to avoid the airspace and
circumnavigate the Simferopol FIR with alternative routings. '

On July 8, the State Aviation Administration of Ukraine closed its airspace to
civilian aircraft after rebels shot a military transport aircraft that was
flying over 20,000 feet.

The restriction, warned commercial aircraft from transiting

British aircraft were warned to avoid the area altogether. A Notice to Airmen,
seen by Mail Online warned: 'Due to the potential for conflicting air traffic
control (ATC) instructions from Ukrainian and Russian authorities and for the
related potential for misidentification of civil aircraft, UK aircraft operators
are strongly advised to avoid, until further notice, the airspace over Crimea,
the Black Sea and the Sea of Azov.'

The EASA supplied airlines with a list of alternative routes avoiding the
conflict zone.

The US Federal Aviation Authority had also banned its aircraft from the Crimea
region.

The suspected shooting down of a large passenger plane while flying at altitude
presents airlines and their passengers with an extremely serious new development
in air travel, according to aviation experts.

They also question the future of Malaysia Airlines - caught in the global glare
of bad publicity following the disappearance of flight MH 370 earlier this year.

If today's incident is confirmed as a deliberate act then Ukraine airspace could
well be closed down, meaning diversions for UK carriers who currently fly to and
over the area.

'This could be a very serious development,' said David Kaminski-Morrow, air
transport editor of Flightglobal magazine.

He went on: 'If reports are true, we are not talking about small-arm fire but
serious weaponry. Normally even if planes fly over a war zone they can go high
enough for the conflict not to be a worry.

'Any decision about the opening or closing of Ukranian airspace will be a matter
for the Ukrainians. It could well be that part or all of that airspace will now
be closed.

'Also, individual airlines, including UK carriers, could decide to detour around
Ukraine.'

Mr Kaminski-Morrow continued: 'It's really quite incredible that it should be
Malaysia Airlines involved in this, after what happened earlier in the year.

'This is not a small airline on a faraway route. This was a major airline flying
from a European destination to a capital in the Far East. There must be serious
concerns about how the airline can recover from this.

'There will obviously be political as well as aviation concerns from all this.
This will run and run.'

In a statement, Virgin Atlantic said: 'Our thoughts are with all involved in the
recent Malaysian Airlines incident. We are closely monitoring the situation and
as a precautionary measure are re-routing a small number of flights this
evening.'

The two flights are the Heathrow to Dubai route and the Mumbai to Heathrow
route.

A British Airways spokesman added: 'The safety and security of our customers is
always our top priority.

'Our flights are not using Ukrainian airspace with the exception of our
once-a-day service between Heathrow and Kiev. We are keeping this service under
review but Kiev is several hundred kilometres from the incident site.'

North American pilots' organisation Alpa said: 'We are deeply troubled by
reports of the loss of Malaysian Airlines Flight 17. Our thoughts are with the
families of the crew, passengers, and all those affected by the event.

'Information about the situation continues to emerge and myriad questions remain
unanswered. We urge the exercise of extreme caution before speculating on the
details of the reported accident or events surrounding it.

'As always, Alpa stands ready, through the International Federation of Airline
Pilots' Associations to assist the international aviation community in every way
possible with the shared goal of advancing a safer air transportation system
around the globe.'

The jet would have been flying at high altitude on an intercontinental flight
that took it over the crisis hit region of Ukraine, where the authorities have
accused Russia-backed separatists of previous attacks on aircraft.

Earlier today the Ukrainian authorities said one of their fighter jets was shot
down by an air-to-air missile from a Russian plane and Ukrainian troops were
fired upon by missiles from a village inside Russia.

The alleged episodes mark what Ukraine says is mounting evidence that Moscow is
directly supporting separatist insurgents in eastern Ukraine who have
substantial quantities of powerful weapons.

WHAT WILL MH-17 MEAN FOR AIR TRAVEL, AND WHAT WILL THE FUTURE HOLD FOR MALAYSIA
AIRLINES?

The suspected shooting down of a large passenger plane while flying at altitude
presents airlines and their passengers with an extremely serious new development
in air travel, according to aviation experts.

They also question the future of Malaysia Airlines - caught in the global glare
of bad publicity following the disappearance of flight MH 370 earlier this year.

If today's incident is confirmed as a deliberate act then Ukraine airspace could
well be closed down, meaning diversions for UK carriers who currently fly to and
over the area.

'This could be a very serious development,' said David Kaminski-Morrow, air
transport editor of Flightglobal magazine.

He went on: 'If reports are true, we are not talking about small-arm fire but
serious weaponry. Normally even if planes fly over a war zone they can go high
enough for the conflict not to be a worry.

'Any decision about the opening or closing of Ukranian airspace will be a matter
for the Ukrainians. It could well be that part or all of that airspace will now
be closed.

'Also, individual airlines, including UK carriers, could decide to detour around
Ukraine.'

Mr Kaminski-Morrow continued: 'It's really quite incredible that it should be
Malaysia Airlines involved in this, after what happened earlier in the year.

'This is not a small airline on a faraway route. This was a major airline flying
from a European destination to a capital in the Far East. There must be serious
concerns about how the airline can recover from this.

'There will obviously be political as well as aviation concerns from all this.
This will run and run.'

Ukraine said a military transport plane was shot down Monday by a missile fired
from Russian territory. Security Service chief Mr Nalyvaichenko said he had
'unconditional evidence' that Russia was involved in downing that aircraft.

A Labour MP called for the House of Commons to delay its summer recess, which is
due to begin on July 22, if it is found that the missile used to down the
aircraft was supplied by the Russian government.

Bassetlaw MP John Mann said: 'This is a very troubling development which raises
serious issues that Parliament will want to consider. It cannot do this if it is
not sitting. By delaying our recess we will be able to discuss this matter and
give it the attention it merits.

'Two hundred and ninety-five innocent people have tragically lost their lives
and their families will want to know how and why this has happened.

'Parliamentarians will want to take stock of these tragic events, given that
they have serious implications for the future of Europe.'

The crash comes four months after the mysterious disappearance of Malaysian
Airlines flight Mhl0 which is though to have crashed into the Indian Ocean.

Two weeks ago, investigators say what little evidence they have to work with
suggests the plane was deliberately diverted thousands of kilometres from its
scheduled route before eventually plunging into the Indian Ocean.

The search was narrowed in April after a series of acoustic pings thought to be
from the plane's black box recorders were heard along a final arc where analysis
of satellite data put its last location.

HOW WILL THE WEST RESPOND TO FLIGHT Mhl BEING SHOT DOWN ABOVE UKRAINE?

The extraordinary pictures of smoke billowing from Flight Mhl are being watched
closely in London and Washington, but will little idea about how the West can
respond.

David Cameron and Barack Obama have stepped up the rhetoric aimed at Russia, but
it has fallen largely on deaf ears.

If it emerges that pro-Russian separatists brought down the Malaysia Airlines
flight, it will further increase Vladmir Putin's status as a pariah on the world
stage - something he appears to revel in.

Since Russian troops seized Crimea in March, Britain and America have been
strong on condemnation but unable to back it up with significant action.

Pro-Russian separatists have shot down military aircraft in the past, but
downing a passenger  aircraft with 298 people would be a new low. So far at
least no-one is taking responsibility.

Hours before the Malaysia Airlines plane came down, Ukrainian authorities said
one of their fighter jets was shot down by an air-to-air missile from a Russian
plane.

Ukrainian troops have also been fired upon by missiles from a village just
across the border inside Russia.

On Monday a military transport plane was also shot down by a missile fired from
Russian territory.

In the immediate aftermath of the incident, Ukrainian airspace could be closed
down altogether.

David Kaminski-Morrow, air transport editor of Flightglobal magazine, said:
'This could be a very serious development.

'If reports are true, we are not talking about small-arm fire but serious
weaponry. Normally even if planes fly over a war zone they can go high enough
for the conflict not to be a worry.

'Any decision about the opening or closing of Ukrainian airspace will be a
matter for the Ukrainians. It could well be that part or all of that airspace
will now be closed.

'This is not a small airline on a faraway route. This was a major airline flying
from a European destination to a capital in the Far East. There must be serious
concerns about how the airline can recover from this.

'There will obviously be political as well as aviation concerns from all this.
This will run and run.'

Just last night President Obama escalated sanctions on Russia in an attempt to
bring Moscow into line.

To date, attempts to target major companies and oligarchs appears to have had
little impact on President Putin's continued support for Ukrainian separatists.

President Obama said: 'I've repeatedly made it clear that Russia must halt the
flow of weapons of fighters across the border into Ukraine, that Russia must
urge separatists to release hostages, and support a ceasefire, that Russia needs
to pursue internationally mediated talks and agreed to meaningful monitors on
the border. I have made this clear to Mr Putin.

He added: 'So far Russia has failed to take any of the steps that I mentioned.
In fact Russia's support for the separatists, and violations of Ukraine's
sovereignty, has continued.'

It all sounded eerily familiar. Last month, after EU leaders met in Brussels, Mr
Cameron pleaded with Russia to respect a 'genuine ceasefire, release hostages
and return occupied border posts to the Ukrainian authorities'.

But so far at least there is little sign that the West will do much more to
stand up to Moscow.

This became all too clear last summer when President Putin refused to reign in
his ally Bashar al-Assad in Syria, accused of using chemical weapons against its
own people.

Mr Cameron pushed for Britain to take military action, and was ready to back the
US.

But he lost a crunch vote in the Commons, as the appetite for UK involvement in
another war evaporated.

However, the big difference this time is the people on board the Malaysian
Airlines flight could come from countries around the globe.

Already it is thought a substantial number are from the Netherlands.

Public pressure means that an escalation in the war of words will not be enough.

But a month later, officials conceded the wreckage was not in that concentrated
area, some 1,000 miles off the northwest coast of Australia, and the search area
would have to be expanded.

The next phase of the search is expected to start in August and take a year,
covering some 60,000 sq km at a cost of AU$60 million ($56 million) or more. The
search is already the most expensive in aviation history.

The new priority search area is around 2,000km west of Perth, a stretch of
isolated ocean frequently lashed by storm force winds and massive swells.

Today's downing of a Malaysian Airlines passenger plane is a grim reminder of
events more than 30 years involving a Korean Airlines flight.

In an incident still shrouded in controversy and conspiracy theories, a Korean
Airlines flight 007, flying from Alaska to Seoul in South Korea, was shot down
by a Russian fighter on September 1 1983.

The aircraft came down at sea, killing all 269 people on board.

It had entered Soviet airspace and it later transpired that it had flown a long
way off course. But this was the height of the Cold War and there were 61
Americans on board the doomed plane, so immediately recriminations began.

The Soviets assumed the passenger plane was a US spy aircraft while the US
President Ronald Reagan called it 'a massacre' and 'a crime against humanity'.

Initially, the Soviet Union denied responsibility. Years later the Russians
conceded that the Soviet action had been tragic but necessary, given just how
far off course the civilian plane had got.

HIJACKINGS, CRASHES AND UNSOLVED MYSTERIES: A TIMELINE OF OTHER  DISASTERS TO
HIT MALAYSIA AIRLINES

December, 4 1977 - Flight Mhl3 was hijacked and crashed in Tanjung Kupang,
Johor, killing all 100 people on board.

September 15, 1995 - Flight Mhl33 touched down too far along the runway at Tawau
Airport, Sabah, killing 32 passengers and two crew members.

March 15, 2000 - Flight Mhl, travelling to Kuala Lumpur to Beijin, was damaged
by the chemical oxalyl chloride, which leaked from canisters during unloading.
The Airbus A330-300 was sufficiently damaged to be written-off.

March 8, 2014 - Fight Mhl0, carrying 12 Malaysian crew members and 227
passengers, went missing on a flight from Kuala Lumpur International Airport to
Beijing Capital International Airport.

The Boeing 777 has still yet to be found, despite months of extensive searches
in the southern Indian Ocean where it was believed to have crashed. The next
phase of the search is expected to start in August and take a year, covering
some 60,000 sq km at a cost of AU$60 million ($56 million) or more.

March 24, 2014 - Flight Mhl6, travelling from Kuala Lumper to Incheon, South
Korea, was forced to make an emergency landing in Hong Kong after its main
electricity generator failed.

Passengers onboard the flight later revealed they were told to prepare for an
emergency water landing. However, the plane landed safely in Hong Kong in the
early hours of the morning.

April 21, 2014 - Flight Mhl2, carrying 166 people, was forced to turn back to
Kuala Lumpur while flying to India after a tyre burst and the right-hand landing
gear malfunctioned.  Police later confirmed an investigation had begun into
whether the flight had been interfered with before take-off.

April 24, 2014 - A plane belonging to Firefly Airlines (a subsidiary of Malaysia
Airlines) was forced to return to Penang after suffering problems with its
landing gear.

A statement on the company's website said: 'This was because the aircraft's
landing gear was unable to retract after being airborne. As safety is of utmost
priority to Firefly Airlines, the aircraft was required to turn back to Penang.'

July 17, 2014 - Flight Mhl was shot down on the Russian-Ukraine border, killing
all 298 people on board.

LOAD-DATE: July 18, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDM


                   Copyright 2014 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              256 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                   MailOnline

                        July 18, 2014 Friday 5:58 AM GMT

Terrorist attacks on civilians

BYLINE: AUSTRALIAN ASSOCIATED PRESS

SECTION: AAP

LENGTH: 511 words


THIS IS NOT THE FIRST TIME AUSTRALIANS HAVE BEEN CAUGHT UP IN SUCH ATTACKS

FIRST BALI BOMBINGS

- A total of 88 Australia were killed in the first Bali bombings on October 12,
2002, Australia's worst death toll in a terror attack. Two bombs exploded at
Bali's tourist hub Kuta, killing 202 people from 21 countries, also including 38
Indonesians and 28 Britons. The militant group Jemaah Islamiah orchestrated the
blasts which involved a suicide bomber inside Paddy's Bar and a much more
powerful car bomb at the nearby Sari Club.

9/11

- Ten Australians are known to have died in the September 11 attacks in the US
in 2001. Nearly 3000 people from 57 countries were killed when Islamic extremist
group al-Qaeda hijacked four large passenger planes and crashed them into major
landmarks in the United States, including into the twin towers of the World
Trade Center in New York City.

SECOND BALI BOMBINGS

- Four Australians were killed in the second Bali bombings on October 1, 2005.
Suicide bombers blow up three Bali restaurants killing 26 people, including four
Australians. Three explosions ripped through three restaurants, two in the
Jimbaran beach resort and the third in Kuta 30km away. Islamists terrorists were
blamed.

JAKARTA HOTEL ATTACKS

- Three Australians were killed in the Jakarta hotels bombings on July 17, 2009:
Two luxury hotels, the JW Marriott and Ritz-Carlton, in Indonesia's capital are
bombed five minutes apart, killing at least seven people. The two suspected
suicide bombers also died.

LONDON BOMBINGS

- One Australian was killed and several badly wounded in the bomb attacks in
London on July 7, 2005. More than 50 people were killed and more than 700
wounded when Muslim extremists detonated a series of bombs on the London
transport network. The co-ordinated attacks hit during the morning rush hour
with the first three bombs going off on Underground trains and a final explosion
an hour later on a double-decker bus.

NAIROBI MALL ATTACK

- An Australian man and his pregnant Dutch partner were killed in the Nairobi
shopping mall attack from September 21-24, 2013. Gunmen armed with assault
weapons stormed an upmarket shopping mall in Nairobi, Kenya, shooting and
hurling grenades at shoppers and staff. At least 67 people were killed and more
than 170 injured. Somalia's al-Shabab Islamic militant group claimed
responsibility.

JAKARTA EMBASSY ATTACK

- No Australians were killed, but the Australian embassy in Jakarta was the
target of the September 9, 2004 attack. A total of 12 people died when an
explosives-filled van explodes in front of the Australian Embassy in Jakarta.

OTHERS

MUMBAI ATTACKS

- No Australians were killed but several were caught up in the Mumbai attacks on
November 26, 2008. The Mumbai attacks involved coordinated shooting and bombings
that lasted four days across India's financial capital of Mumbai. The terrifying
assault by 10 heavily-armed Islamist gunmen left 166 people dead. More than 600
people managed to escape the Taj Mahal Palace hotel, the Oberoi-Trident hotel
and Nariman House, which were held by the attackers.

LOAD-DATE: July 18, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDM


                   Copyright 2014 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              257 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                   MailOnline

                        July 18, 2014 Friday 3:47 AM GMT

Victorian real estate agent and famous Dutch HIV doctor on his way to Melbourne
for AIDS conference killed in Malaysian Airlines Mhl7 terrorist attack, with 27
Australians among the 298 dead

BYLINE: SARAH MICHAEL, SALLY LEE, CANDACE SUTTON, MICHAEL SEAMARK and DARREN
BOYLE

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 7061 words



     ·    Malaysian Airlines flight Mhl shot down over territory held by
          Pro-Russian rebels in eastern Ukraine
     ·    Body parts and wreckage spread over nine-mile area, suggesting plane
          broke up mid-air
     ·    Airlines had been advised to cease flights over the region which is
          'effectively a war zone'
     ·    Dutch officials have said that 27 Australians are among the dead
     ·    Prime Minister Tony Abbott extended his most profound condolences to
          the families of Australian victims.
     ·    Australians concerned about their loved ones can call the DFAT hotline
          on 1300 555 135
     ·    Ukrainian interior ministry says plane was shot down by a BUK
          surface-to-air missile
     ·    President Petro Poroshenko issued robust denial that his forces were
          involved, and calls crash an 'act of terrorism'
     ·    Ukraine's state security chief accuses Russian military intelligence
          officers of involvement in crash
     ·    US senator John McCain vows there will be 'hell to pay' if missile was
          fired by rebels or Russian backers


An Australian real estate agent, his wife and a Victorian university student
were among the 298 people on board Malaysia Airlines flight Mhl that was shot
down on the Russian-Ukraine border.

The Boeing 777 aircraft was travelling from Amsterdam to Kuala Lumpur when it
was hit by a sophisticated surface-to-air missile over territory near Donetsk
held by pro-Russian rebels who the Ukrainian government says are backed by the
Kremlin.

The plane was shot down in an 'act of terrorism', killing all 298 passengers and
crew on board including 27 Australians.

Victorian real estate agent, Albert Rizk, and his wife Marie died in the crash.

They had been in Europe on holidays for several weeks. They had been travelling
with family friends who took an earlier flight and were waiting for the Rizks to
arrive home in Sunbury, Victoria, where they were high-profile members of a
tight-knit community.

Mr Rizk was a director of Raine & Horne in Sunbury.

President of the Sunbury Football Club Phil Lithgow said Mr Rizk was a sponsor
of the AFL club as well as an enthusiastic community worker and his wife worked
in the club canteen.

The couple's son James, who is also a real estate agent, plays football for the
Sunbury club.

'He is a very good footballer and Albert and Marie were just lovely people,' Mr
Lithgow told Daily Mail Australia.

'It is a shock to us all, Albert was just such a community person in the area.'

It has been confirmed that Malaysian student Elaine Teoh, who had been studying
at Melbourne University, was also on the flight, Channel Nine reported.

Victorian Premier Denis Napthine confirmed Mhl was to connect with Mhl9 arriving
in Melbourne this evening.

'On behalf of all Victorians, I express our deepest condolences to the friends,
family and loved ones of all 298 victims who were aboard the Malaysia Airlines
Mhl flight.

'Unfortunately, I can now confirm that a number of Victorians are among those
who have been killed, although we are not yet in a position to say how many,' he
said.

'This is a sad and tragic day, not just for Victorians, but for all people and
all nations. The shooting down of a passenger aircraft full of innocent
civilians is an unspeakable act that will forever leave a dark stain on our
history.'

Scroll down for videos

Queensland Premier Campbell Newman says it is believed nine people on board were
Queenslanders.

Among the passengers were medical experts travelling to Melbourne for the
International Aids Conference that was to officially begin tomorrow.

Leading HIV researchers, including former president of the International AIDS
Society Joep Lange, were also on flight Mhl en route to the 20th International
AIDS Conference, AIDS2014, which was to be held from July 20 to 25.

Daily Mail Australia has confirmed AIDS lobbyist Pim de Kuijer and other
researchers Martine de Schutter and Lucie van Mens were on the flight, along
with World Health Organisation media relations coordinator Glenn Thomas.

Russian President Vladimir has blamed Ukraine for the tragedy that claimed the
lives of all 298 people on board, including around 100 children - but didn't
deny Russian-backed separatists were to blame for shooting it out of the sky.

Ukrainian authorities laid the blame for the attack on the rebels by denying any
responsibility for the missile launch, with President Petro Poroshenko called
the downing an act of terrorism as he called for an international investigation
into the crash.

TV pictures from the scene showed a pall of smoke billowing into the sky near
Donetsk, apparently from the stricken flight Mhl.

Witnesses say body parts are scattered over a distance of 15km, suggesting the
plane broke up in mid-air.

Dutch officials said 27 Australians were on board. The Department of Foreign
Affairs and Trade warned that number could climb higher because the
nationalities of all those on board are not yet known.

Do you know anyone involved in Mhl? Contact sarah.michael@mailonline.com or +612
9383 6691

Prime Minister Tony Abbott said he extended his most profound condolences to the
families of Australian victims.

'All I can say is that this would be the grimmest of grim mornings for the
family and the loved ones of Australians on that plane,' he told The Today Show.

'Our heart goes out to them, our prayers are with them and whatever assistance
we humanly can offer we will because Australians stick by each other in times of
trouble.'

Mr Abbott added: 'If it has been brought down by a missile that is an
unspeakable crime and we should be filled with revulsion against anything that
would do something horrible to innocent people.'

Foreign Minister Julie Bishop said she wanted the crash to be the subject of a
'detailed international inquiry'.

'We are seeking access to the crash site and we are seeking to send consular
staff from Warsaw to the crash site,' she said.

Commenting on reports Russian separatists had taken the plane's black box, Ms
Bishop said: 'Regardless of the circumstances we urge the separatists to
cooperate with an investigation into this crash. If they have taken the black
box that must be returned to authorities immediately.'

She added: 'This incident underlines the urgent need to deescalate the tensions
and the situation in eastern Ukraine.'

A Department of Foreign Affairs and Trade spokeswoman said Dutch authorities had
advised 27 Australians were on board Mhl.

'The Department is urgently seeking to confirm this number and the identities of
the Australians involved,' she said.

She added that anyone with concerns for the welfare of Australian family or
friends should attempt to directly contact them.

If unable to contact them, people are urged to call DFAT's 24-hour Consular
Emergency Centre on + 61 2 6261 3305 from overseas, or 1300 555 135 within
Australia.

Ms Bishop said the hotline had received 170 calls by 9am.

A Malaysia Airlines spokesman told Daily Mail Australia the airline was in the
process of contacting the family members of Mhl passengers and crew.

'And then after we will look into releasing the details of the passengers,' he
said.

Malaysia Airlines has confirmed that 154 Dutch, 43 Malaysian (including 15 crew
and two infants), 12 Indonesian, nine British, four German, three Filipino, and
one Canadian citizen were also on the plane.

The airline added that all European flights operated by Malaysia Airlines will
now be taking alternative routes, avoiding the usual route.

CONDOLENCES EXPRESSED FOR PEOPLE WHO DIED TRAVELLING TO MELBOURNE CONFERENCE

Friends and colleagues of Mhl victims travelling to the 20th International AIDS
Conference in Melbourne have expressed their condolences.

Former US President Bill Clinton is one of the speakers at the conference, along
with musician activist Sir Bob Geldolf and UNAIDS Executive Director Michel
Sidibé.

U.S doctor Seema Yasmin described Dr Lange, who is believed to be a father to
five girls, as 'a kind man and a true humanitarian'.

She posted a series of tweets dedicated to Dr Lange, who was also the former
president of the International AIDS Society.

'I find out someone I've known at least half my life was on the plane. #Mhl,'
she wrote.

'How do we measure how much a person has done for humanity? People like Joep
change the course of epidemics.'

Yvette Fleming, manager of Stop Aids Now, tweeted there were other colleagues on
board the flight with Dr Lange.

'In shock! Lucie van Mens, Martine de Schutter, Pim de Kuijer, Joep Lange and
Jacqueline van Tongeren never arrived in Melbourne!' she wrote.

Daily Mail Australia has confirmed AIDS lobbyist Pim de Kuijer and other
researchers Martine de Schutter and Lucie van Mens were on the flight.

WHO media adviser Mr Thomas, 49, was a British national and a former journalist
and BBC reporter who originally came from north-west England.

A colleague and friend of his, photographer Rob Underdown told Daily Mail
Australia Mr Thomas had been looking forward to travelling to Australia in his
role as media relations co-ordinator for the World Health Organisation.

Mr Underdown, who said Mr Thomas was an all round nice guy with whom he had
worked around 23 years ago in Blackpool, lived with his partner and had a sister
living in Spain.

He had last been in contact a few weeks ago on Facebook, when Mr Thomas told him
he was off to the Melbourne AIDS conference.

He said he would get together with a group of Mr Thomas's old friends in the
British media to remember him.

US WARNS THERE WILL BE 'HELL TO PAY' IF MISSILE FIRE CONFIRMED

As shocking pictures of bodies and debris emerged, the tragedy sparked a
full-blown international crisis last night, increasing tension between Moscow
and Washington.

Mr Putin said: 'This tragedy would not have happened if there were peace on this
land, if the military actions had not been renewed in south-east Ukraine. And,
certainly, the state over whose territory this occurred bears responsibility for
this awful tragedy.'

Officials for the Obama administration - which had only yesterday stepped up
sanctions against Russia for backing the separatists - confirmed the plane was
hit by a single missile while at cruising speed and U.S. Vice President Joe
Biden said that 'it was not an accident', adding it was 'blown out of the sky'.

Biden, who had talked with Ukrainian President Poroshenko on the phone, is the
most senior US official to raise the idea that the aircraft was deliberately
brought down - but he did not divulge who he thought was responsible.

While Ukraine and Russia blamed each other, US senator John McCain vowed there
would be 'hell to pay' if it was confirmed that the surface-to-air missile had
been fired by the rebels or their Russian backers. Ukraine claimed to have
intercepted a phone call between separatists and Russian intelligence boasting
of downing the jet, while one rebel commander tweeted: 'We warned you - do not
fly in "our sky".'

Airlines were advised to cease flights over the region - and faced questions as
to why commercial jets had been flying over what is effectively a war zone.

Last night there was speculation that the doomed Flight Mhl had taken a
short-cut across the disputed region of eastern Ukraine to save fuel.

As relatives gathered at airports for news of missing loved ones, it emerged
that airlines had twice been warned about the risk of flying over an area where
two Ukrainian military aircraft had already been shot down this week.

In April, the International Civil Aviation Organisation advised carriers to
consider alternative routes after outlining 'the possible existence of serious
risks to the safety of international civil flights'.

On Monday, Eurocontrol - the body that coordinates all traffic across European
airspace - sent out an official note to airmen, known as a Notam, repeating the
warning and saying it 'strongly advises' avoiding the airspace.

But many carriers continued to use the route because it was shorter and
therefore cheaper.

Russian President Vladimir Putin and US President Barack Obama were speaking by
telephone in a pre-arranged call when news of the tragedy began to emerge.

Flight Mhl had taken off from Amsterdam at lunchtime and was flying at around
33,000ft on one of the main routes from Europe to Asia when it was struck by the
missile. It came down near a poultry farm in the village of Grabovo, an area
controlled by pro-Russian rebels about 30 miles from the Ukraine-Russia border.

Witnesses claimed to have seen bodies falling out of the stricken plane over the
village of Rassypnaya. Some residents feared they were being bombed.

Aleks Noit, whose relatives live nearby, said more than a dozen corpses, some
naked, were strewn around the village.

'Wreckage and bodies fell on the private houses in the village and near the
hospital. People in  uniform collected the  corpses,' he said.

Others described an entire field covered in debris from the plane and body parts
scattered across an area up to nine miles in diameter, suggesting the plane
broke up in mid-air.

BRITAIN CALLS FOR INTERNATIONAL INVESTIGATION INTO CAUSE OF CRASH

Schiphol Airport boss Jos Nijhuis confirmed at a press conference in Amsterdam
that there had been six British people on board.

The new British Foreign secretary Philip Hammond said tonight he believes there
were British nationals among those on board the plane but does not have detailed
information as to the exact number, or what had caused the plane to crash.

Speaking at the Foreign Office following emergency talks with ministers and
officials, he called for an international investigation led by the United
Nations to establish exactly what happened to the aircraft.

'I'm deeply shocked by this appalling incident and I send my heartfelt
condolences to all those who may have lost family and friends. We're determined
to get to the bottom of understanding what has happened here,' he said.

Mhl - WHO WAS ON BOARD?

Among those thought to have been on board were:

154 Dutch

43 Malaysian

27 Australian

12 Indonesian

Nine British

Four German

Four Belgian

Three Filipino

One Canadian

41 unverified

The identities of others on board are yet to be determined

'As yet we do not have any definitive information about how this incident
occurred and I don't want to speculate at this stage. We believe that there must
be a UN-led international investigation of the facts.'

He said that Britain was prepared to make Air Accident Investigation Branch
assets and specialists available to assist such an investigation.

Prime Minister David Cameron said: 'I'm shocked and saddened by the Malaysian
air disaster. Officials from across Whitehall are meeting to establish the
facts.'

He has summoned officials from across Whitehall for urgent talks at 7pm to
discuss the latest on the crash, and what is known about any British casualties.

A Whitehall source said that this evening's meeting was involving Government
officials, rather than ministers, and was focused on establishing what needs to
be done for any British citizens caught up in the incident.

Britain has also requested an urgent meeting of the United Nations Security
Council in New York, the Foreign Office said.

The Foreign Office is also in talks with consular teams in Amsterdam and Kuala
Lumpur to obtain passenger lists to establish how many UK nationals were on
board.

'We are aware of the reports and are urgently working to establish what has
happened,' a Foreign Office spokesman said.

Asked about reports that up to 10 British people had been on board, the
spokesman added: 'Our first priority is to establish if there are any British
persons on board but we are not in a position to go beyond that line.'

US VICE PRESIDENT SAYS CRASH 'NOT AN ACCIDENT'

Meanwhile, Russian President Vladimir Putin in a telephone conversation told
U.S. President Barack Obama that a Malaysian airplane crashed on Ukrainian
territory, the Kremlin said.

The two leaders held a pre-planned call on the situation in Ukraine during which
information became available from air traffic controllers about the crash.

Twenty-three Americans are feared dead in the crash, which President Barack
Obama called a 'terrible tragedy'.

The president spoke briefly about the crash as he appeared in Wilmington,
Delaware on Thursday afternoon and said his national security team are working
to determine if there were any U.S. citizens on board the plane that was
carrying 298 people to Kuala Lumpur.

DESIGNED TO PROVIDE AIR DEFENCE FOR TROOPS FACING ATTACK: WHAT IS A BUK MISSILE
LAUNCHER?

The BUK missile system is a set of medium range surface-to-air missile systems
which were first developed in the Soviet Union and continue to be produced by
Russia.

Designed to take out cruise missiles, aircrafts, helicopters and short range
ballistic missiles, they can reach altitudes of up to 15.5miles, according to
the manufacturer's website.

Developed by Moscow firm Almaz-Antey, they are thought to have been used during
the Russian war with Georgia in the territory of South Ossetia in 2008.

The manufacturer's website, which also lists military equipment including radar
and naval missile systems, displays two models of Buk launchers - the Buk-M1-2
and the Buk-M2E.

A description of the Buk-M1-2, which has an altitude target range of up to 25km
(15.5 miles or 82,000ft), reads: 'The "Buk-M1-2" ADMC is designed to provide air
defence for troops and facilities against attacks from current and future
high-speed manoeuvring tactical and strategic aircraft, attack helicopters
including hovering helicopters, and tactical ballistic, cruise, and air-to-air
missiles, in conditions of heavy radio jamming and counter fire; as well as to
destroy water and ground surface targets.'

Meanwhile, the Buk-M2E 'is designed to destroy tactical and strategic aircraft,
helicopters, cruise missiles, and other aerodynamic aircraft at any point in
their range of operation, along with tactical ballistic and aircraft missiles,
and smart air bombs in conditions of heavy enemy counter fire and radio jamming;
as well as to attack water and ground surface contrast targets.'

'Our thoughts and prayers are with all the passengers' families,' he added.

Vice President Joe Biden, who was traveling to Detroit, spoke on the phone with
President Poroshenko when he offered assistance to help determine what happened
to the downed Boeing 777 and why, the White House said.

Biden said described the crash as apparently 'not an accident' and that the
passenger jet was 'blown out of the sky' in a speech in Detroit, in which he
said determining whether Americans had been on board was the first priority for
the United States.

Najib Razak, the Malaysian prime minister, said: 'I am shocked by reports that
an MH plane crashed. We are launching an immediate investigation.'

Later, addressing a press briefing, he described it as: 'A tragic day in a
tragic year', adding that the Malaysia Airlines jetliner did not make any
distress call before it went down in Ukraine, and that the flight route was
declared safe by the International Civil Aviation Organization.

'The Ukrainian authorities believe that the plane was shot down,' Najib said in
the statement.

'At this stage, however, Malaysia is unable to verify the cause of this tragedy.
But we must, and we will, find out precisely what happened to this flight. No
stone will be left unturned.

'If it transpires that the plane was indeed shot down, we insist that the
perpetrators must swiftly be brought to justice.'

SHOT OUT OF THE SKY: OTHER PLANES HIT MID-FLIGHT

April 20, 1978: Korean Airlines Flight 902, which diverted from its planned
course on a flight from Paris to Seoul and strayed over the Soviet Union.

After being fired upon by an interceptor aircraft, the crew made a forced
landing at night on the surface of a frozen lake. Two of the 97 passengers were
killed by the hostile fire

September 1, 1983:

Korean Air Lines Flight 007 shot down by at least one Soviet air-to-air missile
after the 747 had strayed into Soviet airspace. All 240 passengers and 29 crew
were killed

July 3, 1988:

Iran Air Flight 655 Aircraft was shot down by a surface to air missile from the
American naval vessel U.S.S. Vincennes. All 16 crew and 274 passengers were
killed

He said also that Malaysia was sending a special flight to Kiev with a disaster
assistance and rescue team.

Dutch Prime Minister Mark Rutte, who had been attending a European Union summit
in Brussels, has headed back to the Netherlands to deal with fall-out from the
crash.

The aircraft, which was carrying 280 passengers and 15 crew, was flying between
Amsterdam and Kuala Lumpur after taking off at lunchtime today.

It is believed the plane was struck by BUK surface-to-air missile at 33,000ft
around 20 miles before entering Russian airspace.

The missile system is an old Soviet-built weapon designed to engage light
aircraft, cruise missiles and drones.

Ukrainian President Poroshenko issued a robust denial that his forces were
involved in shooting down the plane, saying: 'We do not exclude that this plane
was shot down, and we stress that the Armed Forces of Ukraine did not take
action against any airborne targets.'

'We are sure that those who are guilty in this tragedy will be held
responsible,' he added.

Ukraine's state security chief accused two Russian military intelligence
officers of involvement in the downing of a Malaysian passenger plane in eastern
Ukraine on Thursday and said they must be punished for their 'crime'.

SBU chief Valentyn Nalivaychenko said he based his allegation on intercepts of
phone conversations between the two officers.

'Now you know who carried out this crime. We will do everything for the Russian
military who carried out this crime to be punished,' he told journalists.

Pro-Russian rebels denied they were involved in the attack, saying they believed
the plane had been shot down by the Ukrianian air force.

One pro-Russia rebel leader said they now  intend to call a three-day ceasefire
to allow an investigation of the crash.

Rebel leader Alexander Borodai told the RIA-Novosti agency that discussions were
under way with Ukrainian authorities on calling the short truce for humanitarian
reasons.

He said international organisations would be allowed into the region.

Earlier, pro-Russia rebels claimed responsibility for surface-to-air missile on
two Ukrainian Sukhoi-25 jets yesterday.

The Ukrainian Defense Ministry said the second jet was hit by a portable
surface-to-air missile - not a BUK - adding that the pilot was unscathed and
managed to land his plane safely.

Defence experts have expressed fears in the past they could be used to target at
civil aircraft.

Earlier, defence analyst Major Charles Heyman, who edited a book called Armed
Forces of the European Union, believes it could have been downed by a 'slack'
Ukraine air defence centre.

He told Sky News: 'It looks like confusion. It's possible that Ukraine thought
it was hostile and not civilian and shot it down.'

Malaysian Airlines said they have no information about any survivors.

In a tweet, the airline said: 'Malaysia Airlines has lost contact of Mhl from
Amsterdam. The last known position was over Ukrainian airspace. More details to
follow.'

A Boeing spokesman said: 'Our thoughts and prayers are with those on board the
Malaysia Airlines airplane lost over Ukrainian airspace, as well as their
families and loved ones.

'Boeing stands ready to provide whatever assistance is requested by
authorities.'

As the drama unfolded, several other passenger jets were flying through
Ukrainian airspace on one of the main routes from Europe to Asia for air
traffic.

Today's calamity will prompt questions about why the route was still being used
given previous incidents.

A UK Civil Aviation Authority (CAA) spokesman said: 'The Ukrainian authorities
are responsible for managing their airspace and the UK or other countries cannot
enforce airspace restrictions in the area.

'However, the CAA has previously issued advice to UK airlines on operating in
this area and following this incident, Eurocontrol (the European air traffic
control body) has issued advice to airlines to plan routes that avoid the area.'

This evening, the Department for Transport in London said flights were now being
diverted.

A DfT spokesman said: 'Flights already airborne are being routed around the area
by air traffic control in the region. Pilots around the world have been advised
to plan routes that avoid the area by Eurocontrol, the European organisation for
the safety of air navigation.'

Airliner tracking sites seemed to indicated that traffic was now steering clear
of Ukrainian airspace, and other airlines said they would be monitoring the
situation, and re-routing flights if needed.

Why was Mhl flying through a warzone? European safety watchdog warned against
using Ukraine airspace since APRIL

Air accident investigators are planning to inspect the proposed flight plan
lodged by pilots on board Malaysian Airlines flight Mhl.

The 17-year-old jet was shot down over Donetsk in Eastern Ukraine despite
commercial aircraft being warned against using the airspace because of the
ongoing conflict.

One of the major questions is whether the Malaysian flight crew received the
warning from flight safety officials about the risk to safety.

The jet was travelling at 33,000 feet at 490 knots when it disappeared from
radar screens over Donetsk.

It is believed that the Malaysian Airlines pilots ignored several warnings to
avoid the airspace over Ukraine. It is understood the Malaysian Airline jet used
the Ukrainian route to save fuel as diverting north or south would have taken
longer.

In April, the European Aviation and Safety Agency warned: 'Taking into
consideration the recent publication by the Russian Federation of a series of
notices to airmen (NOTAMs) modifying the Simferopol FIR which is under the
responsibility of Ukraine, and their intent to provide air traffic services
(ATS) within this airspace, the Agency draws the aviation communities' attention
to the possible existence of serious risks to the safety of international civil
flights.

'Due to the unsafe situation where more than one ATS provider may be controlling
flights within the same airspace from 3 April 2014, 0600 UTC onwards,
consideration should be given to measures to avoid the airspace and
circumnavigate the Simferopol FIR with alternative routings. '

On July 8, the State Aviation Administration of Ukraine closed its airspace to
civilian aircraft after rebels shot a military transport aircraft that was
flying over 20,000 feet.

The restriction, warned commercial aircraft from transiting

British aircraft were warned to avoid the area altogether. A Notice to Airmen,
seen by Mail Online warned: 'Due to the potential for conflicting air traffic
control (ATC) instructions from Ukrainian and Russian authorities and for the
related potential for misidentification of civil aircraft, UK aircraft operators
are strongly advised to avoid, until further notice, the airspace over Crimea,
the Black Sea and the Sea of Azov.'

The EASA supplied airlines with a list of alternative routes avoiding the
conflict zone.

The US Federal Aviation Authority had also banned its aircraft from the Crimea
region.

The suspected shooting down of a large passenger plane while flying at altitude
presents airlines and their passengers with an extremely serious new development
in air travel, according to aviation experts.

They also question the future of Malaysia Airlines - caught in the global glare
of bad publicity following the disappearance of flight MH 370 earlier this year.

If today's incident is confirmed as a deliberate act then Ukraine airspace could
well be closed down, meaning diversions for UK carriers who currently fly to and
over the area.

'This could be a very serious development,' said David Kaminski-Morrow, air
transport editor of Flightglobal magazine.

He went on: 'If reports are true, we are not talking about small-arm fire but
serious weaponry. Normally even if planes fly over a war zone they can go high
enough for the conflict not to be a worry.

'Any decision about the opening or closing of Ukranian airspace will be a matter
for the Ukrainians. It could well be that part or all of that airspace will now
be closed.

'Also, individual airlines, including UK carriers, could decide to detour around
Ukraine.'

Mr Kaminski-Morrow continued: 'It's really quite incredible that it should be
Malaysia Airlines involved in this, after what happened earlier in the year.

'This is not a small airline on a faraway route. This was a major airline flying
from a European destination to a capital in the Far East. There must be serious
concerns about how the airline can recover from this.

'There will obviously be political as well as aviation concerns from all this.
This will run and run.'

In a statement, Virgin Atlantic said: 'Our thoughts are with all involved in the
recent Malaysian Airlines incident. We are closely monitoring the situation and
as a precautionary measure are re-routing a small number of flights this
evening.'

The two flights are the Heathrow to Dubai route and the Mumbai to Heathrow
route.

A British Airways spokesman added: 'The safety and security of our customers is
always our top priority.

'Our flights are not using Ukrainian airspace with the exception of our
once-a-day service between Heathrow and Kiev. We are keeping this service under
review but Kiev is several hundred kilometres from the incident site.'

North American pilots' organisation Alpa said: 'We are deeply troubled by
reports of the loss of Malaysian Airlines Flight 17. Our thoughts are with the
families of the crew, passengers, and all those affected by the event.

'Information about the situation continues to emerge and myriad questions remain
unanswered. We urge the exercise of extreme caution before speculating on the
details of the reported accident or events surrounding it.

'As always, Alpa stands ready, through the International Federation of Airline
Pilots' Associations to assist the international aviation community in every way
possible with the shared goal of advancing a safer air transportation system
around the globe.'

The jet would have been flying at high altitude on an intercontinental flight
that took it over the crisis hit region of Ukraine, where the authorities have
accused Russia-backed separatists of previous attacks on aircraft.

Earlier today the Ukrainian authorities said one of their fighter jets was shot
down by an air-to-air missile from a Russian plane and Ukrainian troops were
fired upon by missiles from a village inside Russia.

The alleged episodes mark what Ukraine says is mounting evidence that Moscow is
directly supporting separatist insurgents in eastern Ukraine who have
substantial quantities of powerful weapons.

WHAT WILL MH-17 MEAN FOR AIR TRAVEL, AND WHAT WILL THE FUTURE HOLD FOR MALAYSIA
AIRLINES?

The suspected shooting down of a large passenger plane while flying at altitude
presents airlines and their passengers with an extremely serious new development
in air travel, according to aviation experts.

They also question the future of Malaysia Airlines - caught in the global glare
of bad publicity following the disappearance of flight MH 370 earlier this year.

If today's incident is confirmed as a deliberate act then Ukraine airspace could
well be closed down, meaning diversions for UK carriers who currently fly to and
over the area.

'This could be a very serious development,' said David Kaminski-Morrow, air
transport editor of Flightglobal magazine.

He went on: 'If reports are true, we are not talking about small-arm fire but
serious weaponry. Normally even if planes fly over a war zone they can go high
enough for the conflict not to be a worry.

'Any decision about the opening or closing of Ukranian airspace will be a matter
for the Ukrainians. It could well be that part or all of that airspace will now
be closed.

'Also, individual airlines, including UK carriers, could decide to detour around
Ukraine.'

Mr Kaminski-Morrow continued: 'It's really quite incredible that it should be
Malaysia Airlines involved in this, after what happened earlier in the year.

'This is not a small airline on a faraway route. This was a major airline flying
from a European destination to a capital in the Far East. There must be serious
concerns about how the airline can recover from this.

'There will obviously be political as well as aviation concerns from all this.
This will run and run.'

Ukraine said a military transport plane was shot down Monday by a missile fired
from Russian territory. Security Service chief Mr Nalyvaichenko said he had
'unconditional evidence' that Russia was involved in downing that aircraft.

A Labour MP called for the House of Commons to delay its summer recess, which is
due to begin on July 22, if it is found that the missile used to down the
aircraft was supplied by the Russian government.

Bassetlaw MP John Mann said: 'This is a very troubling development which raises
serious issues that Parliament will want to consider. It cannot do this if it is
not sitting. By delaying our recess we will be able to discuss this matter and
give it the attention it merits.

'Two hundred and ninety-five innocent people have tragically lost their lives
and their families will want to know how and why this has happened.

'Parliamentarians will want to take stock of these tragic events, given that
they have serious implications for the future of Europe.'

The crash comes four months after the mysterious disappearance of Malaysian
Airlines flight Mhl0 which is though to have crashed into the Indian Ocean.

Two weeks ago, investigators say what little evidence they have to work with
suggests the plane was deliberately diverted thousands of kilometres from its
scheduled route before eventually plunging into the Indian Ocean.

The search was narrowed in April after a series of acoustic pings thought to be
from the plane's black box recorders were heard along a final arc where analysis
of satellite data put its last location.

HOW WILL THE WEST RESPOND TO FLIGHT Mhl BEING SHOT DOWN ABOVE UKRAINE?

The extraordinary pictures of smoke billowing from Flight Mhl are being watched
closely in London and Washington, but will little idea about how the West can
respond.

David Cameron and Barack Obama have stepped up the rhetoric aimed at Russia, but
it has fallen largely on deaf ears.

If it emerges that pro-Russian separatists brought down the Malaysia Airlines
flight, it will further increase Vladmir Putin's status as a pariah on the world
stage - something he appears to revel in.

Since Russian troops seized Crimea in March, Britain and America have been
strong on condemnation but unable to back it up with significant action.

Pro-Russian separatists have shot down military aircraft in the past, but
downing a passenger  aircraft with 298 people would be a new low. So far at
least no-one is taking responsibility.

Hours before the Malaysia Airlines plane came down, Ukrainian authorities said
one of their fighter jets was shot down by an air-to-air missile from a Russian
plane.

Ukrainian troops have also been fired upon by missiles from a village just
across the border inside Russia.

On Monday a military transport plane was also shot down by a missile fired from
Russian territory.

In the immediate aftermath of the incident, Ukrainian airspace could be closed
down altogether.

David Kaminski-Morrow, air transport editor of Flightglobal magazine, said:
'This could be a very serious development.

'If reports are true, we are not talking about small-arm fire but serious
weaponry. Normally even if planes fly over a war zone they can go high enough
for the conflict not to be a worry.

'Any decision about the opening or closing of Ukrainian airspace will be a
matter for the Ukrainians. It could well be that part or all of that airspace
will now be closed.

'This is not a small airline on a faraway route. This was a major airline flying
from a European destination to a capital in the Far East. There must be serious
concerns about how the airline can recover from this.

'There will obviously be political as well as aviation concerns from all this.
This will run and run.'

Just last night President Obama escalated sanctions on Russia in an attempt to
bring Moscow into line.

To date, attempts to target major companies and oligarchs appears to have had
little impact on President Putin's continued support for Ukrainian separatists.

President Obama said: 'I've repeatedly made it clear that Russia must halt the
flow of weapons of fighters across the border into Ukraine, that Russia must
urge separatists to release hostages, and support a ceasefire, that Russia needs
to pursue internationally mediated talks and agreed to meaningful monitors on
the border. I have made this clear to Mr Putin.

He added: 'So far Russia has failed to take any of the steps that I mentioned.
In fact Russia's support for the separatists, and violations of Ukraine's
sovereignty, has continued.'

It all sounded eerily familiar. Last month, after EU leaders met in Brussels, Mr
Cameron pleaded with Russia to respect a 'genuine ceasefire, release hostages
and return occupied border posts to the Ukrainian authorities'.

But so far at least there is little sign that the West will do much more to
stand up to Moscow.

This became all too clear last summer when President Putin refused to reign in
his ally Bashar al-Assad in Syria, accused of using chemical weapons against its
own people.

Mr Cameron pushed for Britain to take military action, and was ready to back the
US.

But he lost a crunch vote in the Commons, as the appetite for UK involvement in
another war evaporated.

However, the big difference this time is the people on board the Malaysian
Airlines flight could come from countries around the globe.

Already it is thought a substantial number are from the Netherlands.

Public pressure means that an escalation in the war of words will not be enough.

But a month later, officials conceded the wreckage was not in that concentrated
area, some 1,000 miles off the northwest coast of Australia, and the search area
would have to be expanded.

The next phase of the search is expected to start in August and take a year,
covering some 60,000 sq km at a cost of AU$60 million ($56 million) or more. The
search is already the most expensive in aviation history.

The new priority search area is around 2,000km west of Perth, a stretch of
isolated ocean frequently lashed by storm force winds and massive swells.

Today's downing of a Malaysian Airlines passenger plane is a grim reminder of
events more than 30 years involving a Korean Airlines flight.

In an incident still shrouded in controversy and conspiracy theories, a Korean
Airlines flight 007, flying from Alaska to Seoul in South Korea, was shot down
by a Russian fighter on September 1 1983.

The aircraft came down at sea, killing all 269 people on board.

It had entered Soviet airspace and it later transpired that it had flown a long
way off course. But this was the height of the Cold War and there were 61
Americans on board the doomed plane, so immediately recriminations began.

The Soviets assumed the passenger plane was a US spy aircraft while the US
President Ronald Reagan called it 'a massacre' and 'a crime against humanity'.

Initially, the Soviet Union denied responsibility. Years later the Russians
conceded that the Soviet action had been tragic but necessary, given just how
far off course the civilian plane had got.

HIJACKINGS, CRASHES AND UNSOLVED MYSTERIES: A TIMELINE OF OTHER  DISASTERS TO
HIT MALAYSIA AIRLINES

December, 4 1977 - Flight Mhl3 was hijacked and crashed in Tanjung Kupang,
Johor, killing all 100 people on board.

September 15, 1995 - Flight Mhl33 touched down too far along the runway at Tawau
Airport, Sabah, killing 32 passengers and two crew members.

March 15, 2000 - Flight Mhl, travelling to Kuala Lumpur to Beijin, was damaged
by the chemical oxalyl chloride, which leaked from canisters during unloading.
The Airbus A330-300 was sufficiently damaged to be written-off.

March 8, 2014 - Fight Mhl0, carrying 12 Malaysian crew members and 227
passengers, went missing on a flight from Kuala Lumpur International Airport to
Beijing Capital International Airport.

The Boeing 777 has still yet to be found, despite months of extensive searches
in the southern Indian Ocean where it was believed to have crashed. The next
phase of the search is expected to start in August and take a year, covering
some 60,000 sq km at a cost of AU$60 million ($56 million) or more.

March 24, 2014 - Flight Mhl6, travelling from Kuala Lumper to Incheon, South
Korea, was forced to make an emergency landing in Hong Kong after its main
electricity generator failed.

Passengers onboard the flight later revealed they were told to prepare for an
emergency water landing. However, the plane landed safely in Hong Kong in the
early hours of the morning.

April 21, 2014 - Flight Mhl2, carrying 166 people, was forced to turn back to
Kuala Lumpur while flying to India after a tyre burst and the right-hand landing
gear malfunctioned.  Police later confirmed an investigation had begun into
whether the flight had been interfered with before take-off.

April 24, 2014 - A plane belonging to Firefly Airlines (a subsidiary of Malaysia
Airlines) was forced to return to Penang after suffering problems with its
landing gear.

A statement on the company's website said: 'This was because the aircraft's
landing gear was unable to retract after being airborne. As safety is of utmost
priority to Firefly Airlines, the aircraft was required to turn back to Penang.'

July 17, 2014 - Flight Mhl was shot down on the Russian-Ukraine border, killing
all 298 people on board.

LOAD-DATE: July 18, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDM


                   Copyright 2014 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              258 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                   MailOnline

                        July 18, 2014 Friday 3:06 AM GMT

Pope demands justice for Argentina terror attack

BYLINE: ASSOCIATED PRESS

SECTION: AP

LENGTH: 804 words


BUENOS AIRES, Argentina (AP) - Pope Francis is demanding justice for the victims
of Argentina's worst terrorist attack, using what is increasingly becoming his
signature way of communicating: an amateur smartphone video message, recorded on
the fly by a visiting friend in the comfort of Francis' Vatican hotel room.

To be aired Friday during the official commemoration of the 1994 bombing of a
Jewish community center in Buenos Aires that killed 85 people, the video is the
latest evidence that Francis has no qualms about circumventing the Vatican's
media machine to get his message out - for better or worse.

A close friend of the pope's, Claudio Epelman, executive director of the Latin
American Jewish Congress, shot the video last month on his Samsung phone when he
visited Francis at the Vatican. Epelman said he asked Francis, who was an
auxiliary bishop in Buenos Aires at the time of the attack, if he would like to
send a message to Argentina's Jewish community to mark the anniversary.

"He thought about it for half a second and said, 'Do you have your cellphone
with you?'" Epelman told The Associated Press. "And I said 'yes' and then he
said, 'Good, let's record it now!'"

In the message, the pope speaks off-the-cuff, with the hum of passing cars
audible through the open windows of his hotel room. He condemns terrorism as
"lunacy" and says Argentina must come to terms with the damage and pain the
unsolved crime still causes.

"Today, together with my solidarity and my prayers for all the victims, comes my
desire for justice. May justice be done!" he says.

Last year, Argentina and Iran approved a "truth commission" aimed at moving the
investigation forward by enabling Argentine prosecutors to travel to Tehran to
question former Iranian officials suspected of organizing the attack. But little
progress has been made and Jewish groups say Argentina's failure to press Iran
guarantees impunity. Tehran denies any involvement.

It's the second time Francis has provided a homemade smartphone message to issue
a directed message, and confirms that the 77-year-old pope is perfectly
comfortable using new media and technology to communicate, even though he grew
up listening to opera on Argentine radio on Sunday afternoons, keeps a
hand-written agenda and has never owned a cellphone.

Earlier this year, he caused shockwaves by recording an iPhone video message of
brotherly friendship to a gathering of Pentecostals, one of the Catholic
Church's fiercest competitors for Christian souls around the world. It was shot
by an evangelical clergyman friend and broadcast at a Pentecostal conference,
whose participants responded by praying in tongues for the pope and sending back
a video message of thanks.

While Emeritus Pope Benedict XVI sent the first papal tweet from the Vatican's
@Pontifex account in 2012, it was a carefully orchestrated affair arranged by
his Vatican communications team. Francis is breaking new ground by going it
alone, granting audiences and interviews he arranges himself and allowing
trusted friends to deliver messages to groups he might otherwise have a hard
time reaching through official Vatican channels.

"Pope Francis is clearly very comfortable communicating in new ways, and seems
unconstrained by the 'old ways' of doing things," said the Rev. James Martin, a
Jesuit author. "And like Jesus, he grasps that the best way to communicate is by
speaking to people plainly, and by using accessible media. For Jesus, that
medium was often the parable; for Francis it might be an encyclical, but it also
might be YouTube or a smartphone."

Francis' willingness to shun the Vatican's bulky press operation in favor of the
immediacy and unstuffiness of new and unofficial media has come at a cost. Just
last week, the Vatican spokesman, the Rev. Federico Lombardi, was forced to
issue a lengthy clarification after Francis chatted with an Italian atheist and
journalist, Eugenio Scalfari.

In the interview published in the left-leaning newspaper La Repubblica, Scalfari
quoted the pope as saying that there were cardinals among pedophile clergymen
and that he would find a solution to the problem surrounding the celibate
priesthood.

Scalfari has admitted he doesn't take notes or record his interviews, and merely
reconstructs them after the fact as he remembers them. As a result, Lombardi
said, the quotes attributed to Francis cannot be confirmed. And he suggested
Scalfari might have intentionally manipulated the pope's words "for naive
readers."

Francis clearly doesn't seem to care: It was the second interview he has given
Scalfari. After the first, Lombardi was forced to issue a clarification as well.

___

Associated Press writer Nicole Winfield reported this story from New York and
Almudena Calatrava reported in Buenos Aires.

___

Nicole Winfield on Twitter: www.twitter.com/nwinfield

LOAD-DATE: July 18, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDM


                   Copyright 2014 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              259 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                               UK Government News

                       July 18, 2014 Friday 1:09 PM  EST

FOREIGN OFFICE MINISTER CONDEMNS TERRORIST ATTACK IN TUNISIA

LENGTH: 153 words


LONDON, July 18 -- Foreign and Comonwealth Office issued the following news:

Foreign Office Minister condemns terrorist attack in Tunisia and offers
condolences to the victims and their families.

Speaking after the attack which took place on 16 July, the Minister for the
Middle East and North Africa Tobias Ellwood said:

I was shocked and saddened to learn of the deaths and injuries sustained by
Tunisia's security forces in the Chaambi Mountain region of Tunisia. My thoughts
are with the families of the victims. I condemn this cowardly attack and
reaffirm the UK's solidarity with the Tunisian government and people in their
fight against terrorism.

I also welcome the progress that Tunisia continues to make in its democratic
transition. The UK will continue to support this process." For any query with
respect to this article or any other content requirement, please contact Editor
at htsyndication@hindustantimes.com

LOAD-DATE: July 21, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newswire


                        Copyright 2014 HT Media Limited.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              260 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                                  The Express

                             July 19, 2014 Saturday
                                   Edition 3;
                                National Edition

Israel to step up attack on Gaza terror tunnels

BYLINE: Anil Dawar

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 468 words


ISRAEL is ready to "significantly widen" its ground offensive against Hamas
militants in the Gaza Strip, Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu said yesterday.

Israeli troops, backed by tanks, artillery fire and air strikes, moved into the
Palestinian state, dramatically escalating the conflict.

One Israeli soldier and at least 25 Palestinians were killed.

UN Secretary-General Ban Ki-moon will travel to the Middle East today in a bid
to end the fighting, a senior official said last night.

Political affairs chief Jeffrey Feltman told the Security Council: "Israel has
legitimate security concerns and we condemn the indiscriminate rocket fire from
Gaza into Israel that ended yesterday's temporary ceasefire.

"But we are alarmed by Israel's heavy response."

Defiant

The Israeli ground operation is targeting a tunnel network allegedly used by the
Palestinian fighters to fire missiles at Israel.

Mr Netanyahu said the tunnels cannot be targeted "only from the air".

The incursion comes after 10 days of Hamas missiles and deadly retaliatory air
strikes by Israel. Hamas, the Palestinian group that controls Gaza, vowed Israel
will "pay a high price".

The United Nations reported that the number of people displaced by the conflict
had nearly doubled from 22,000 to more than 40,000.

Mr Netanyahu addressed his ministers in a televised cabinet meeting telling
them: "Last night our forces began a ground operation to hit the terror tunnels
crossing from Gaza into Israel's territory."

He said the ground offensive came after Israel agreed to two different
ceasefires but found its civilians were still being fired on by Hamas. "We chose
to begin this operation after other options were exhausted," he said. "And with
the understanding that without the operation the price we will pay can be very
high."

A Hamas spokesman remained defi-ant, vowing: "The ground offensive does not
scare us. We pledge to drown the occupation army in Gaza mud."

Israel Defence Forces (IDF) claimed to have struck more than 100 targets,
allegedly destroying 20 missile launchers and uncovering 10 tunnels. It said it
had arrested at least 13 Palestinian militants after catching them on Israeli
soil using a tunnel to try to mount an attack on a nearby kibbutz. But Israel
saw its first military death of the latest conflict in the early hours of the
ground assault when Staff Sergeant Eitan Barak, 20, died.

Health officials in Gaza said that the 25 Palestinians killed include three
teenage siblings from one family. A tank shell hit their home as they slept.

Countless more Gazans were fleeing their homes yesterday. Some 271 Palestinians
- three-quarters of them civilians - have died since Israel launched air
strikes.

US President Barack Obama has urged Israel to minimise civilian deaths but
supports its right to defend itself.

LOAD-DATE: July 19, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Palestinian families fleeing homes in southern Gaza
Pictures: REUTERS
Smoke fills Gaza City skyline yesterday after an Israeli missile strike

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DXP


                       Copyright 2014 Express Newspapers
                              All Rights Reserved

                              261 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                               Independent.co.uk

                      July 19, 2014 Saturday 12:09 AM GMT

When Ginn Fourie's daughter died in a terrorist attack in South Africa she was
determined to track down the killer - but not for revenge;
Ginn's daughter Lyndi was 23 years old when she was shot during an early New
Year celebration in a Cape Town pub in 1993

BYLINE: Susie Mesure

SECTION: AFRICA

LENGTH: 1818 words


The man who killed 23-year-old Lyndi Fourie was nowhere near the rifle that
ended her young life on 30 December 1993, when an early New Year celebration in
a Cape Town pub turned into one of the worst tragedies of South Africa's brutal
apartheid regime. Neither was he present at the criminal trial the following
year when three different men - "mere puppets" according to the judge - stood in
the dock, charged with murdering four people, including Lyndi.

But distance, more than 1,200km in the case of that fateful night, cannot
absolve guilt, something Lyndi's mother, Ginn Fourie, knew all too well as she
sat "howling" day after day, mourning the loss of her only daughter. And that is
why, amid the grieving, Ginn knew that even to begin to make sense of what had
happened, she had to find out who was responsible. "The injustice of Lyndi
dying. Was that God's fault? No, it wasn't God's fault; it was the people who
pulled the trigger. And not knowing who they were caused the anger."

The Heidelberg Tavern, in Cape Town's Observatory suburb, was a popular student
hang-out. Which is why Lyndi, six months from finishing a civil engineering
degree, sat chatting to friends, including Quentin Cornelius, when a hail of
bullets shattered one of the windows. M26 rifle grenades, studded with nails,
and automatic rifle fire quickly followed, turning the cosy tavern into an
instant morgue. The random bullets were indiscriminate, killing and maiming
blacks as well as whites. That the country was but four months from holding its
first democratic elections only amplified the tragedy for South Africa.

Within days, the armed wing of the Pan Africanist Congress - the Azanian
People's Liberation Army (Apla) - had claimed responsibility: the attack was
retaliation for the South African defence forces killing five - black -
schoolchildren one month earlier. It took a week for the three Apla soldiers
involved - Humphrey Gqomfa, Brian Madasi, and Zola Mabala - to be caught ahead
of a trial later that year.

The ultimate irony is that it was Lyndi, of all people, who was caught in the
violence; Lyndi who had grown up among black people on a farm in the Eastern
Cape; "colour-blind" Lyndi, who, Ginn says, "had lots of black friends, and who,
when she was doing civil engineering, really empathised with the plight of black
people because she had to do field work, and during the lunch hour they would
talk to her, and tell her that they were labourers, and absolutely no way could
they ever rise above that." Damp-eyed, Ginn adds: "Whereas she, as a
22-year-old, was at university doing a degree. She used to tell me about it,
weeping, saying, 'How grossly unfair'."

An utter horror story and yet Ginn, who is relaxing into a soft sofa in a warm
London drawing room, can today talk softly and calmly about what happened. True,
her eyes speak of sorrow - and rather than rehash the exact details of how she
heard about Lyndi's death, she directs me to a new documentary she is in the UK
to promote - but her demeanour is astonishing. Even more extraordinary, however,
is the presence of a large man sitting next to her, albeit with an
upholstery-enforced gap. He is none other than Letlapa Mphahlele, the former
Apla leader and self-avowed freedom fighter, and yes, the man who ordered the
Cape Town carnage. His was the name Ginn had been seeking but failing to find
during those bleakest months two decades ago. And the reason? She needed someone
to forgive. If that sounds odd, Ginn explains how mercy was the only possible
exit from her tunnel of grief. "Forgiveness is part of moving from victim to
survivor to wounded healer." That last bit describes her life now, running the
Lyndi Fourie Foundation, set up in her daughter's memory. And the first bit
explains her choice of partner: Mphahlele himself.

Forgiving came, she adds, from a personal pledge she had made two years before
Lyndi died and a book she had read, Stephen Covey's global bestseller: The 7
Habits of Highly Effective People. "One of the habits is to establish your
mission statement so you know the direction of your life. I made mine to extend
God's grace to every person I met." And with divine grace comes extreme empathy,
or as Ginn puts it: "I define forgiveness as a process in which you take a
principled decision to give up your justifiable right to revenge". Initially
this was hard; it meant giving up "anger and hate [which] I wasn't able to do. I
couldn't affect my emotions. But I could affect my cognition. And once I'd taken
the decision to forgive, then the emotional aspect takes care of itself."

But first she had to track down Mphahlele, or Letlapa as she calls him, friend
to friend. And that wasn't easy. She remembers the frustration of knowing the
three men charged with the massacre "had been foot soldiers... but at the
criminal trial they wouldn't name where the orders came from". That revelation
had to wait until 1997 and South Africa's Truth and Reconciliation Commission
hearings, Archbishop Desmond Tutu's groundbreaking initiative to put an entire
country on the path to forgiveness. Even then, Letlapa wasn't playing ball
because he had mixed feelings about the process, which invited perpetrators to
seek amnesty. "I loathed that all applicants for TRC had to be coached by
lawyers... I think the truth was compromised big-time with the TRC," he says, in
the slow, studied voice of the South African politician he became.

It was to take a further five years before the two would meet, at a book launch
in 2002 for Letlapa's autobiography, Child of this Soil: My Life as a Freedom
Fighter. Ginn, who had heard about the event only by chance, on the radio while
driving to work, remembers bracing herself to meet a monster. "It was very
emotional for me at the Waterfront [the city's historic harbour; now home to
many shops and restaurants]. That emotion was experiencing Letlapa as a human
being, not as a devil with horns and a tail, because I had this perception of
anyone who could do that as an evil person. You think of someone who's hard and
callous and there was a real human being instead."

Afterwards, Letlapa begged her to meet him later that week, in private. "I don't
know if I liked him," she says, recalling her first impressions, "but I was
really moved. The way he greeted me was so profound." She turns sideways on the
sofa, asking him: "Will you show the handshake?" He extends the clenched fist of
black power to her, a white woman now in her sixties whose ancestors had fought
in the Anglo-Boer war. "It was unbelievably humbling. I could see the remorse in
his body language."

In the documentary, Beyond Forgiving, made with support from Initiatives of
Change, a global organisation set up in the 1930s to transform societies,
Letlapa, aged 53, remembers that day. "She said, 'In spite of the pain that you
caused me, I forgive you'. It was like being struck by lightning out of the blue
on a cloudless day. It was something that I was never prepared for." He wanted
to meet, "soul to soul, heart to heart" to tell her "who I was. How I was talked
into the political fray by the circumstances of the time".

The clincher in their remarkable journey towards friendship came with his
invitation for Ginn to speak at his homecoming ceremony in the tiny Seleteng
community in South Africa's far north-east. By then, Ginn was midway through a
doctorate on the causes of violence. She recalls, laughing, how she was advised
not to attend. "When I invited my doctoral supervisors to come, they warned me I
was going beyond my limits. They were quite nervous for my safety; they weren't
prepared to come." She was one of only a handful of whites amid a sea of blacks,
but her talk hit a nerve.

"I told them I'd spoken to my ancestors to know why we were in the situation we
were in and that they were deeply sorry about the hurt and the pain they'd
caused through slavery, through colonisation, through the war, and through
apartheid. The response was enormous. The cheering. People just made their
resonance with what I had said, known." She added: "I understood that shame and
humiliation breed violence. And we shamed and humiliated; we got the violence".

Despite South Africa's unique history, and those remarkable TRC hearings, which
investigated 35 years of human-rights abuses, granting 849 prisoners amnesty,
including the Heidelberg killers, Ginn admits her stance is unusual. "There were
some radical opinions from the white people, and a bit of hate mail." Even her
family has struggled. Lyndi's brother Ant, who lives in Margaret River,
Australia, took his time over backing his mother; and Ginn's husband, whom she'd
rather not name, "would rather be left out of this journey altogether",
disapproving of the pair's unlikely friendship. She names two other Heidelberg
victims, both maimed, admitting neither "journey the same path".

Although it was faith that pointed Ginn towards clemency, she quashes my
suggestion that faith was a prerequisite. "I think forgiveness is a human
attribute. Letlapa has forgiven equally and he's an atheist." She's unsure
whether there is anything particularly South African about her mercy. "That's an
interesting question. I don't know that there's been any survey done to find
out. I think the human heart wants revenge; it's only human." That said, she
adds: "There's a lot of forgiveness that's been offered, and I think the fact
that there are any whites present in South Africa is a tribute to black
forgiveness". Not that there are any guarantees about that mindset lasting. She
points to Julius Malema, a 33-year-old firebrand, whose Economic Freedom
Fighters movement, which he started last July, won 27 seats in the May
elections. "His supporters have placards saying, 'Whites must go' and 'Whites
must die', so that's frightening sort of stuff for South Africans," Ginn adds.

Today, the Lyndi Fourie Foundation exists to push Ginn and Letlapa's message of
"conciliation and hope" in South Africa and beyond. Not that Ginn expects
everyone to follow suit. "I'm not there to prescribe. I understand that for some
people it's very difficult because of the ongoing challenges they experience."
It does happen, though. Take the woman in the Solomon Islands whose brother was
beheaded in a marketplace and for 10 years had said nothing. "She saw our
documentary and then told us about his head, just lying there. All that grief
bottled up. We were able to support her. And a little lady in Glasgow, who heard
us talk at the cathedral and said she'd been meaning to write a letter of
forgiveness for 30 years and she was going to go home that very night and write
it."

And all because justice wasn't enough for one woman who had lost her only
daughter; she needed to forgive as well.

The film, 'Beyond Forgiving', can be watched on YouTube:
youtube.com/watch?v=lt5Uy-iSGMA. For more on the Lyndi Fourie Foundation, visit
lyndifouriefoundation.org.za

LOAD-DATE: July 19, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBI


           Copyright 2014 Independent Digital News and Media Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              262 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring Middle East - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                              July 20, 2014 Sunday

Egypt announces three days of mourning for victims of border terrorist attack

LENGTH: 106 words


Text of report by Egyptian state-run news agency MENA

Egypt announces three days of mourning for victims of border terrorist attack

Cairo, 19 July: Egypt announced three days of mourning for the victims of the
deadly terrorist attack on border guards in Farafra in the New Valley at dusk on
Saturday [19 July].

President Abd-al-Fattah al-Sisi issued a decree to declare national mourning on
20, 21 and 22 July ambassador Ihab Badawi, the spokesman for the presidency
said.

Prime Minister Ibrahim Mahlab has condemned the hideous attack which left 21
killed and another four wounded.

Source: MENA news agency, Cairo, in English 0413gmt 20 Jul 14

LOAD-DATE: July 20, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2014 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              263 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring Middle East - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                              July 20, 2014 Sunday

Jordan condemns "terrorist" attack on Egyptian checkpoint

LENGTH: 137 words


Text of report in English by official Jordanian news agency Petra-JNA website

Amman, July 20 (Petra) -Minister of State for Media Affairs and Communications,
Mohammed Al-Momani, condemned the terrorist attack on a border checkpoint in
Egypt's western desert on Saturday.

Al-Momani, who is also the government spokesperson, reiterated Jordan's position
which rejects all acts of terrorism and violence regardless of the motives and
sources.

He also expressed the Kingdom's solidarity with the people of Egypt in facing
terrorism compromising the security, safety and stability of their country.

A spokesman for the Egyptian army has announced that 12 Egyptian soldiers were
killed during an attack on a border checkpoint in Egypt's western desert region
near Libya.

Source: Petra-JNA website, Amman, in English 0820 gmt 20 Jul 14

LOAD-DATE: July 20, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2014 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              264 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring Middle East - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                              July 20, 2014 Sunday

Arab League Secretary General condemns Egypt border terror attack

LENGTH: 143 words


Text of report by Egyptian state-run news agency MENA

Arabi condemns Egypt border terror attack

Cairo, 20 July: Arab League Secretary General Nabil al-Arabi Sunday [20 July]
condemned a "cowardly terror attack" that targeted border guards in Farafra, the
New Valley [southwest of Cairo], on Saturday.

The attack is just a desperate bid to destabilize the country, Arabi said.

"The Arab League supports the Egyptian state in combating and uprooting all
forms of terrorism," he noted.

He extended condolences to the victims' families, the Egyptian government and
people, hoping the attackers would be identified and brought to justice.

Twenty-one border guards were killed and four others injured in the attack that
targeted a border checkpoint near Farafra oasis.

A three-day national mourning was declared.

Source: MENA news agency, Cairo, in English 1156gmt 20 Jul 14

LOAD-DATE: July 20, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2014 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              265 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                               UK Government News

                       July 20, 2014 Sunday 12:56 PM  EST

FCO MINISTER, ELLWOOD CONDEMNS TERROR ATTACK IN EGYPT

LENGTH: 186 words


LONDON, July 20 -- Foreign and Comonwealth Office issued the following news:

Mr. Ellwood offers condolences following terrorist attack on Egyptian checkpoint
and support for Egyptian investigation.

Commenting on a terrorist attack on a border-guard checkpoint near Farafra in
Egypt's Western Desert reported to have killed more than 20 people, Minister for
North Africa Tobias Ellwood said:

I strongly condemn the appalling terrorist attack on a border guard checkpoint
near Farafra on Saturday. My thoughts are with the families of those killed and
wounded and all those affected. The Egyptian authorities have our support as
they investigate this incident and seek to prevent further attacks.

NEWSDESK

Follow the Foreign Office on Twitter @foreignoffice

Follow the Foreign Office on Facebook at
https://www.facebook.com/foreignoffice?ref=hl and Google+ at
https://plus.google.com/b/105922144104190309938/+foreignoffice/posts

MEDIA ENQUIRIES

Email newsdesk@fco.gov.uk

News Desk 020 7008 3100 For any query with respect to this article or any other
content requirement, please contact Editor at htsyndication@hindustantimes.com

LOAD-DATE: July 21, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newswire


                        Copyright 2014 HT Media Limited.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              266 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                               UK Government News

                       July 20, 2014 Sunday 10:01 AM  EST

FCO MINISTER CONDEMNS TERROR ATTACK IN EGYPT

LENGTH: 142 words


LONDON, July 20 -- The United Kingdom Foreign & Commonwealth Office issued the
following press release:

Mr Ellwood offers condolences following terrorist attack on Egyptian checkpoint
and support for Egyptian investigation

Commenting on a terrorist attack on a border-guard checkpoint near Farafra in
Egypt's Western Desert reported to have killed more than 20 people, Minister for
North Africa Tobias Ellwood said:

"I strongly condemn the appalling terrorist attack on a border guard checkpoint
near Farafra on Saturday. My thoughts are with the families of those killed and
wounded and all those affected. The Egyptian authorities have our support as
they investigate this incident and seek to prevent further attacks." For any
query with respect to this article or any other content requirement, please
contact Editor at htsyndication@hindustantimes.com

LOAD-DATE: July 21, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newswire


                        Copyright 2014 HT Media Limited.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              267 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring Middle East - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                              July 21, 2014 Monday

Israel's Bennett says ground operation prevented "mega-terrorist attack"

LENGTH: 507 words


Text of report in English by Israeli newspaper The Jerusalem Post on 21 July

[Report by Gil Hoffman: "Bennett: Ground invasion stopped mega-attack"]

Israel's ground campaign in the Gaza Strip prevented terrorists from carrying
out a mega-terrorist attack on the scale of the 11 September 2001 attacks in the
United States, Economy and Trade Minister Naftali Bennett said Sunday [20 July].

Bennett, who is a member of the security cabinet that approved the invasion,
said that in retrospect, he is relieved that the HAMAS did not agree to an
Egyptian-brokered cease-fire. He said that had there been a cease-fire, there
would not have been a ground operation and the network of tunnels from the Gaza
Strip would not have been discovered.

"A whole city of terror tunnels has been found," Bennett told IDF Radio.
"Without the ground operation, we would have woken up one day to an Israeli
9/11." Despite IDF casualties, Bennett (Jewish Home) said the operation saved
civilian lives. He called the discovery of the tunnels by the ground forces "a
miracle."

Intelligence Services Minister Yuval Steinitz (Likud) said in a radio interview
that Israel would have no choice but to take control over the entire Gaza Strip.
He said that had been his opinion for years.

Qadima leader Shaul Mofaz, who is a former IDF chief of general staff, said the
Gazan tunnels had become a strategic threat to Israel and not merely a tactical
one. He said removing the threat was necessary to prevent ongoing serious danger
to Israel.

Opposition leader Yitzhaq Herzog gave full support to the ground operation. He
said his visit to agricultural communities in the Sha'ar Hanegev Regional
Council that have been threatened by the tunnels proved to him that the ground
operation was necessary.

So far the only Knesset members who have demonstrated against the ground
operation have been Balad MKs. Balad leader Jamal Zehalka complained Sunday that
no Jewish MK had joined protests against the invasion. "Anyone with a conscience
should be against this dirty, criminal war," he said. Zehalka and his Balad
colleague, MK Hanin Zu'abi, filed complaints with police, accusing officers of
physically attacking them at a demonstration in Haifa on Friday. He said they
would file complaints with the Knesset Tuesday after taking part in a general
strike in the Arab sector against the war on Monday. "I will ask to convict the
policemen who attacked me," Zehalka said. "When I told them I am an MK, the
commander just looked on satisfied and told the police to continue hitting me.
Despite the way they hit us, we will continue the struggle against this war. "

Deputy Interior Minister Faina Kirschenbaum (Yisra'el Beytenu) said Sunday that
she would try to revoke the citizenship of Zu'abi. Zu'abi said in response that
Kirschenbaum was a fascist and that no one could prevent her from protesting
against the and ending the bloodshed that she said was encouraged by
Kirschenbaum and Yisra'el Beytenu leader Avigdor Lieberman.

Source: The Jerusalem Post, Jerusalem, in English 21 Jul 14

LOAD-DATE: July 21, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2014 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              268 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                       BBC Monitoring Africa - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                             July 22, 2014 Tuesday

Rwanda "concerned" over terror attacks in Kenya

LENGTH: 341 words


Text of report by Ibrahim Oruko entitled "Rwanda warns Kenya opposition"
published by privately-owned Kenyan daily newspaper The Star on 22 July

Rwanda is concerned by the insecurity and threats posed by terrorists in Kenya.
The Speaker of its Senate, Jean Damascene Ntawukuliryayo, said the security
situation in Kenya creates a threat peace in the region.

He told the Kenya government that Rwanda is ready to support any initiative that
will ensure peace in the region. Ntawukuliryayo urged the Kenyan opposition
leaders to "watch their utterances".

"Rwanda is strongly concerned. We are looking at whatever is happening with keen
interest. Rwanda is at your service in case you want any help," he said.

Ntawukuliryayo, who is in the country on an official tour, was speaking during a
meeting with the two Speakers of Kenya's parliament yesterday. He separately met
Ekwee Ethuro, Justin Muturi and the senate defence committee.

Ntawukuliryayo is expected to address the senate this afternoon. He said
security matters are sensitive and require concerted efforts by actors within
and outside the government.

"Let the [Kenyan] opposition watch its utterances because security is not a
preserve of the government. They must speak the same language as the government
and help eliminate threats of terror," Ntawukuliryayo said.

He called on the five EAC [East African Community] states to work together in
developing a common understanding and strategy to ensure peace in the region.
Ekwee briefed his counterpart on the history of the Kenyan senate and its
mandate in the new constitutional order.

"The Senate of Kenya is here to stay. Nothing else can happen to it the
challenge is for the members its role cascades to the villages," he said. Muturi
told his visitor Rwanda had preceded Kenya in adopting a presidential system of
government where cabinet secretaries do not sit in the House. "There is a lot
the two countries can learn from each other because our history is more or less
the same," Muturi said.

Source: The Star, Nairobi, in English 22 Jul 14

LOAD-DATE: July 22, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2014 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              269 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring Middle East - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                             July 22, 2014 Tuesday

Saudi police arrest 11 "terrorist" elements accused of attacking border

LENGTH: 341 words


Text of report in English by privately-owned Yemeni news website Yemen Fox on 21
July

[Unattributed report: "Saudi Police Arrests 11 Suspects Accused of Attacking
Saudi Border Guards"]

Saudi sources said that Saudi security forces arrested eleven terrorist from the
elements that attacked Saudi border guards in Farafra in Kilo 100 in al-Wadi
al-Jadeed province that claimed the lives of 23 soldiers from the Saudi armed
forces.

Sources added that Al-Qa'idah suspect were heading from Yemen, across the Libyan
territory, noting that security agencies have been continued to probe to
disclose the circumstances of the incident and the attack and how to implement
it in addition to who was behind such terrorist attack.

It is worth mentioning that Yemen police on Nov 2, 2013, arrested Omar Salem, a
prominent al-Qaeda leader by the security forces in the south-eastern province
of Hadramout as part as a sweeping campaign against the terror group.

The arrested terrorist Omar Salem is involved in the assassination of the deputy
head of the military college General Ali bin Freyjan.

On Nov 20, 2013 Yemen arrested women suspected of being al-Qaeda militants after
a security force operation in the country's south that left four soldiers dead.

The women and a number of children were arrested in Hadramawt.

On March 19 ,2014, Yemeni Special Forces at al-Azraqain checkpoint arrested
al-Qaeda suspect northern the capital city of Sana'a. The arrested suspected is
a dweller from Thi Na'am district of Bayda province. In the same day security
apparatuses detected a fugitive affiliated to al-Qaeda escaped from the Central
Prison of Bayda in 2012.

On April 2, 2014, Yemen's police arrested four al-Qaeda suspects at a Jabal Ras
security checkpoint in Hodeida province .The arrested were two Yemenis and the
other two were Saudi nationals.

On June 2014, Yemeni security apparatuses arrested two of the most wanted
terrorists affiliated to al-Qaeda, In the town of Say'un , in the southeastern
province of Hadramout .

Source: Yemen Fox, Sanaa, in English 21 Jul 14

LOAD-DATE: July 22, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2014 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              270 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring Middle East - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                             July 22, 2014 Tuesday

Sudan condemns "terrorist" attack on Egyptian soldiers

LENGTH: 222 words


Text of report by pro-government Sudanese Media Centre website on 22 July

The government of Sudan has condemned the terrorist act which soldiers from the
border guards were involved in the western dessert of Egyptian. The government
confirmed that it is keen on the security and stability of Egypt and at the same
time categorically denounced all the criminal acts which target the integrity of
the sisterly country and people of Egypt.

In a statement the government of Sudan condemned the criminal, terrorist attack
on a border point west of Al-Farafirah in the western dessert of Egypt last
Saturday [19 Jul], leading to the martyrdom and injury of a number of Egyptian
soldiers.

"The government of Sudan wishes to covey, through the ministry of foreign
ministry, its condolences and sympathies of the government and people of Sudan
to the government and people of the sisterly republic of Egypt and to the
families and relatives of the martyrs. We pray, during this holy month, that
Almighty Allah receives them [the martyrs] in heaven and quick recovery for the
injured" the statement adds.

A terrorist group attacked an Egyptian brigade from the border guard with rocket
propelled grenades near Al-Farafirah oasis and left 21 soldiers dead and others
were injured.

Source: Sudanese Media Centre website, Khartoum, in Arabic 22 Jul 14

LOAD-DATE: July 22, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2014 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              271 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring Middle East - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                             July 22, 2014 Tuesday

Egypt "terrorist" attack suspects identified - army spokesman

LENGTH: 185 words


Text of report by Egyptian state-run news agency MENA

Cairo, 22 July: Military Spokesman Muhammad Samir has said the security forces
identified the suspects who were involved in the killing of 22 Egyptian military
personnel on the Egyptian-Libyan border on Saturday night.

"Some 20 heavily-armed persons attacked the security point," he said.

"After multiple skirmishes with the security forces, they fired several RPG
shells at the security point," he added.

"As the clashes erupted, backup forces were dispatched to the scene, and forced
the assailants to flee into the nearby mountains," he pointed out.

He added that the investigations were underway to determine the circumstances of
the attack.

On Monday, the Ansar Bayt al-Maqdis, an Al-Qa'idah-linked group, has claimed
responsibility for the killing of 22 Egyptian soldiers.

The Sinai-based jihadist group had posted its claim on its Twitter account.

President Abd-al-Fattah al-Sisi issued a presidential decree of a three-day
mourning throughout Egypt starting Sunday after the killing of the soldiers.

Source: MENA news agency, Cairo, in English 1532gmt 22 Jul 14

LOAD-DATE: July 22, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2014 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              272 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                                  Daily Mirror

                             July 22, 2014 Tuesday
                                   Edition 1;
                                    Ireland

ISRAEL'S TANKS SHELL HOSPITAL;
Four killed and 60 hurt in Gaza attack 14 Hamas terror tunnels destroyed

BYLINE: CHRIS HUGHES

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 251 words


A DOZEN Israeli tank shells slammed into a hospital in Gaza yesterday, killing
four people and wounding 60.

The shells pounded into the third floor, landing in the intensive care and
surgery units, according to the Palestinian Health Ministry.

Mark Regev, spokesman for Israeli PM Benjamin Netanyahu, said he "was not aware"
of the attack at Al-Aqsa Hospital in the Strip but said the military was
"allowed" to hit targets where enemy Hamas hid rockets.

He said: "I have no doubt Hamas uses hospitals. We don't target civilians."

It came as ground troops blew up 14 tunnels going from Gaza to Israel, used by
Hamas to attack Israeli citizens.

A 10-man Hamas assault team was killed as they made their way through two
tunnels.

The hospital horror signalled a bloody day as the Palestinian death toll since
fighting started on July 8 passed 500. Neighbourhoods in Gaza were pulverised
yesterday and Israeli tanks opened fire on a family home, killing 10 people,
including four children and a baby.

Mahmoud Siyam, the head of the family, pleaded: "Without warning they began
bombarding us. What crime have we committed?"

Meanwhile, Israeli commanders reported that so far 20 soldiers had been killed -
18 in the ground offensive against Palestinian militants.

The UN called for a ceasefire but Mr Netanyahu said the attack would go on "as
long as necessary" to end Hamas attacks on Israeli civilians.

c. hughes@mirror.co.uk

They began bombarding us, but what crime have we committed? MAHMOUD SIYAM WHOSE
FAMILY HOME WAS HIT

LOAD-DATE: July 22, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: RUBBLE Building hit in air strike
burning anger Palestinian protests over Gaza invasion
THREAT Soldier on tank near border
CHAOS Inside hospital hit by shells yesterday

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DMR


                            Copyright 2014 MGN Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              273 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                  M2 PressWIRE

                             July 22, 2014 Tuesday

U.S. Condemns Terrorist Attack in Egypt's Western Desert

LENGTH: 104 words


July 21, 2014

Marie Harf

Deputy Department Spokesperson , Washington, DC

The United States strongly condemns Saturday's terrorist attack in Egypt's
western desert near al-Farafra, which killed more than 20 Egyptian soldiers. We
extend our condolences to the families of the victims, and hope for the quick
and full recovery of the wounded. A prosperous and dynamic Egypt requires an
environment of security and stability, and the United States continues to
support the Egyptian Government's efforts to counter the threat of terrorism in
Egypt as part of our commitment to the strategic partnership between our two
countries.

LOAD-DATE: July 22, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newswire

JOURNAL-CODE: M2PW


                      Copyright 2014 Normans Media Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              274 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                   MailOnline

                       July 22, 2014 Tuesday 10:22 PM GMT

Vaidik claims Pakistan's Punjab governor 'called to tell him about Mumbai terror
attacks'

BYLINE: ANUP DATTA

SECTION: INDIANEWS

LENGTH: 353 words


Hindi Press columnist Ved Pratap Vaidik could be on a verge of starting another
controversy after Mail Today on Tuesday gained access to a video of his speech,
in which he claimed Pakistan's Punjab governor called him up to inform him about
the November 2008 Mumbai terror attacks.

"Mumbai mein jab aatankwaadiyo ne kabja kiya hamare hotel par toh sabse pehle
Lahore se governor ne phone kara mujhe aur bole ki TV on kijiye... hamare yaha
ke gunday aapke yahan ghus gaye hain... maine kaha apkey gunday? Bole ki who jo
boli bol rahe hain who hamari hi boli hai jaise ki Punjabiyo ki hoti hai... aap
prime minister se kahiye ki unn par sakht karyawahi kare... who Lahore ke hain
toh iska matlab yeh nahi ki hamare agent hai..."

(When terrorists captured a hotel in Mumbai, the Lahore governor called me up
and said... please switch on your TV... hooligans from our country have entered
your territory... I asked your hooligans? He said, the language they are
speaking is of Punjabis (Sindh)... you tell your prime minister to take strict
actions against them... just because they are from Lahore, it doesn't mean that
they are our agents..." Vedik said, while addressing a symposium 'Bharat Ke
Bhavishya Ki Rajniti' (Politics of India's Future) on January 4, this year, at
Agar Malwa district headquarters in Madhya Pradesh.

Vedik refers to November 26, 2008, when terrorists executed an intricate attack
on India's financial and entertainment capital, Mumbai.

Vedik, in the video clip, further talks about his relationship with the people
of Pakistan.

"Yeh sab prem hai... Hamare padosiyo ke saath hamare sambandh aise hone chahiye
ki agar jhagda bhi kare to uski garima ho... (This is all love... our
relationship with our neighbours should be such that even when we fight, there
should be pride in it...)," he tells his audience at the symposium.

Vedik is already under attack from the Congress ever since the information of
his "hour-long conversation with Hafiz Muhammad Saeed " - the leader of
Jamaat-ud-Dawa and the one of the main accused in the planning and plotting of
the Mumbai terror attacks - was made public.

LOAD-DATE: July 22, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDM


                   Copyright 2014 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              275 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring Middle East - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                            July 23, 2014 Wednesday

Algeria closes Libyan civil planes air corridors for fears of terror attacks

LENGTH: 339 words


Excerpt from report by privately-owned Algerian newspaper El-Khabar website on
23 July

The National Defence Ministry has decided to deal in all seriousness with a
security warning to the effect that Libyan civil cargo aircraft might be
highjacked and used in terrorist attacks.

In this context, an informed source has disclosed that the Algerian air defence
forces command has closed a number of air corridors used by Libyan civil cargo
aircraft because of the unclear situation at the airport of the Libyan capital
Tripoli that has been the scene of clashes between Libyan armed factions in the
complete absence of the sovereign forces of the Libyan central government.

In fact the Algerian air defence command, in cooperation with civil air traffic
control towers, has closed a number of air corridors used by Libyan cargo
aircraft, following the outbreak of clashes at the Libyan capital Tripoli
airport. The informed source said that the measure does not cover all aircraft
coming from Libyan airspace but the air defence command deals with every flight
very cautiously, individually, and asks aircraft crews special, additional
details. The command also asks questions to control towers of airports in the
countries whose civil aircraft still use air corridors to Libya.

This measure was taken following a very secret security memo that has been
circulating in many countries and containing a warning that Libyan civil cargo
aircraft might be used in terrorist attacks against the interests of countries
hostile to Salafi jihadist groups. The security memo emanating from western
countries has caused a state of alert of the air defence services in Algeria
given that Libyan civil cargo aircraft might be used in terrorist attacks.

[Passage omitted: repetition]

In this connection, available information says that several European countries
are monitoring Tripoli airport from the air, 24 hours a day, to prevent Salafi
jihadist groups from taking control of any civilian aircraft.

Source: El-Khabar website, Algiers, in Arabic 23 Jul 14

LOAD-DATE: July 23, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2014 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              276 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                       BBC Monitoring Europe - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                            July 23, 2014 Wednesday

Romanian premier condemns "terrorist attacks" in Ukraine

LENGTH: 264 words


Text of report in English by Romanian government news agency Agerpres

[Unattributed report: "Ponta: Romania joins US and EU's position on Ukraine"]

Bucharest, July 23 /Agerpres/ - Prime Minister Victor Ponta on Wednesday [23
July] reiterated Romania's message of taking a coordinated position with the
political stand of the US and the EU concerning the situation in Ukraine, of
condemning the terrorist attacks that killed so many innocent people, that the
Russian Federation must be compelled to assume moral and political
responsibility, and also a message of support for determined action by the
European and transatlantic communities to punish those responsible.

'I wanted to send a very clear message on behalf of Romania with respect to what
happened in Ukraine, a message of solidarity and coordination with the political
position of the US, of our European partners, of condemnation of what happened
in Ukraine, where so many innocent lives were lost in the terrorist attacks, of
moral and political responsibility that should be assumed by the Russian
Federation and also a message reiterating Romania's readiness to back determined
actions by the European and transatlantic communities, so that such acts should
not go unpunished,' the Prime Minister said at the government meeting.

Victor Ponta also added that he and Minister of Foreign Affairs Titus Corlatean
sent a clear message according to which 'the European Union and our American
partners can rely on Romania in these extremely difficult moments.'

Source: Agerpres news agency, Bucharest, in English 1148 gmt 23 Jul 14

LOAD-DATE: July 23, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2014 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              277 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                          China Daily European Edition

                            July 23, 2014 Wednesday

Citizens' manual offers responses to terrorist attacks

BYLINE: Zhang Yan and Chen Mengwei

SECTION: SOCIETY

LENGTH: 428 words


Using text and cartoons, the manual offers instructions on 42 topics such as
"What to do after being abducted by terrorists" and "What to do if a gunfight
breaks out in the subway". It tells ordinary people how to protect themselves
from terrorists.

At a ceremony during which the manual was distributed in front of the Sogo mall
in Beijing, a demonstration was held to show how to deal with a terrorist. A
Special Weapons and Tactics agent waved a kitchen knife at another agent in a
mock attack.

Before the "attacker" could slash him, his partner swiftly used two hands in an
upward block to the attacker's wrist.

The audience was impressed.

"Could you do it again?" asked Hao Chensi, a woman in her 20s. "I'm a girl. I
don't think I'm strong enough to do that move."

"Give me your umbrella," said the agent teaching the defense skills. He then
threw the umbrella into his partner's face before anyone realized what was
happening.

"Always remember, ladies and children, your first principle is to save your
life," the agent explained. "Don't engage in combat. Just throw anything you
have into their face, as hard as you can. Then run!"

"I'll definitely teach the lessons to my parents and my best friends," Hao said
after the demonstration. "Just being able to calm down when facing bad people
might save our lives."

An Weixing, head of the Counterterrorism Bureau of the Ministry of Public
Security, said: "Distributing the manual for free is just a start. We will
increase counterterrorism education and training programs throughout the
country, so that we can build an anti-terrorism system that involves not only
the experts, but the whole society."

Extra efforts are also being made in some cities as citizens who provide
anti-terrorism information to public security officials stand to collect
substantial rewards.

Informants can be rewarded up to half a million yuan ($80,000) in Jiangsu and
Liaoning provinces, the Inner Mongolia autonomous region and major cities such
as Chengdu, Sichuan province, and Wuhan, Hubei province, according to government
websites.

Authorities in cities like Shenzhen and Zhongshan, Guangdong province, set no
limit for rewards, in a bid to gain valuable intelligence from members of the
public, according to Guangdong's public security officials.

Guo, the public security minister, reiterated the determination to fight a
"people's war against terrorism" during a visit on July 8 to officials working
on a special operation targeting violent and terrorist activities, part of a
yearlong national anti-terrorism campaign that began in April.

LOAD-DATE: July 23, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2014 China Daily Information Co
                              All Rights Reserved

                              278 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                            Evening Times (Glasgow)

                            July 23, 2014 Wednesday
                                   1 Edition

Terror attack on couple

BYLINE: NO BYLINE

SECTION: HS - NEWS; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 147 words


THREE masked men used a CS spray and weapons to rob a young couple in their
home.

They forced their way into the house in Elm Drive, Johnstone, and threatened the
25-year-old man and the 20-year-old woman, with a knife.

But the trio made off with only a two-figure sum of cash.

Police described the robbery as "absolutely terrifying" and urged any witnesses
to come forward.

The young couple were sprayed in the eyes with the "incapacitant spray" during
the incident.

It happened at around 11.30pm on Saturday and the suspects made off in a silver
saloon car.

The first thief is described as between 5ft 5in and 5ft 9in, slim, and wearing a
light blue zipper top, with a white logo, and light grey jogging bottoms.

The second man was wearing a dark hooded tracksuit top and bottoms and the third
man had on dark clothing.

Anyone with information is asked to contact Police Scotland on 101.

LOAD-DATE: July 23, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: ET


                      Copyright 2014 Newsquest Media Group
                              All Rights Reserved

                              279 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                             Paisley Daily Express

                            July 23, 2014 Wednesday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

Attack terror dog may be put to sleep;
COURT ; Man due to appear in court next month

BYLINE: Express Reporter

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 352 words


A dog which ran wild and bit two people may be put down after a sheriff heard
details about the incident.

The Crown has sought a Destruction Order to have the Lurcher/Alsatian cross dog
put down.

And its fate will be determined when accused Clifford Gibson Blades appears in
court next month.

He has been summoned to appear in person after admitting that he was in charge
of the dog when it ran loose and out of control in Elizabethan Way, Renfrew, on
October 16 last year.

The court was told he had been left in charge of the animal, which was owned by
his daughter, and should have kept it under better control.

The court heard that Dillan Alexander had been walking on common ground around
7pm when he became aware of the dog charging towards him across the grass.

Without provocation, it lunged at him and bit him on the arm, forcing him
momentarily to the ground.

He managed to get himself back on his feet and sought refuge in a nearby garden.
Others witnessed saw what had happened and, when the dog ran towards nearby
children, Patricia Downey emerged from her house and the dog attacked her too.

It bit her on the arm, causing a puncture wound which needed hospital treatment.

Blades, 58, came out of a nearby property, grabbed hold of the dog and took it
back inside.

Despite protestations, he made no attempt to see if any of the injured parties
required medical attention.

Police were informed and he was later arrested and quizzed about the incident.

Blades admitted being in charge of the dog which was dangerously out of control
and acted in the manner outlined, while it was not muzzled or kept on a lead and
was running freely in a public place.

Defence agent David Nicholson said the episode had caused his client "much
angst".

He said that following the incident, the local authority had served a Dog
Control Notice on the owner.

Sheriff Gordon Hamilton said he would not be able to consider disposal options
until background reports had been prepared.

He deferred sentence until August 12, ordering the accused to attend to learn
his fate and continued consideration of a Destruction Order until the same date.

LOAD-DATE: July 23, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: PDE


                           Copyright 2014 MGN Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              280 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                   MailOnline

                      July 24, 2014 Thursday 10:36 PM GMT

US pulls over 50 Peace Corps volunteers from Kenya for safety reasons as terror
attacks rise

BYLINE: ASSOCIATED PRESS

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 813 words



     ·    The Peace Corps is pulling more than 50 volunteers out of Kenya until
          threat levels decrease
     ·    Kenya has seen a rise of terror attacks in recent years including last
          year's attack at a mall that killed 67 people
     ·    The State Department also reduced the number of U.S. personnel in
          Kenya by moving a regional USAID office out of the country


The Peace Corps is suspending its programs in Kenya because of security concerns
and is pulling more than 50 volunteers out of the country until threat levels
decrease, the Peace Corps and State Department said on Thursday.

A statement to The Associated Press from the State Department said that the
Peace Corps 'has been closely monitoring the security environment in Kenya...
and has decided to officially suspend the program in Kenya.' The Peace Corps
will monitor the security situation and determine when volunteers can return, it
said.

The decision comes amid a tightening of security by the U.S. Embassy in Kenya,
which has seen dozens of grenade and gunfire attacks the last two years. Earlier
this year the U.S. increased the number of security personnel at the embassy and
put armed Marines behind sandbag bunkers on the embassy roof.

The State Department also reduced the number of U.S. personnel here by moving a
regional USAID office out of the country.

The decision to suspend the Peace Corps program has been in the works for a
while but was not announced publicly. U.S. warnings about the high risk of
terror attacks in Kenya always ruffle the feathers of Kenyan leaders, and the
State Department and Peace Corps statements underscored the long U.S.-Kenya
relationship and the hundreds of millions of dollars the U.S. pours into Kenya
every year.

But it was clear that given the grenade and gunfire assaults, as well as the
massive attack on Westgate Mall last year that killed at least 67 people, the
government felt that its Peace Corps volunteers - who live in far-flung villages
with little security protection - were vulnerable.

Underscoring the danger of random violence, a police officer in the coastal town
of Mombasa confirmed that a foreign woman had been shot and killed Thursday
while walking the city streets, the second foreigner killed this month in the
area.

Recent Peace Corps volunteers in Kenya said they felt the U.S. government
program did a good job of keeping them updated about security, including the
sending of security text messages, but they acknowledged that security was
deteriorating.

'Some volunteers weren't very pleased with the level of security they provided,
but I'm not sure what they were expecting. We don't have security guards to
protect us, and it's Kenya, so sometimes bad things happen regardless of any
preventative measures,' said Nik Schuetz, a 28-year-old volunteer in Kenya from
2009-11 now studying at the University of Kansas.

The Peace Corps, which was founded in 1961 after the suggestion of then-Sen.
John Kennedy, has some 7,000 volunteers in 65 countries working on education,
health and environmental issues. Nearly 50 percent of the program's volunteers
are in Africa.

The program has had to pull volunteers out of dangerous situations before,
including in Nepal in 2004 and in Kenya after the 2007-08 election violence. The
Peace Corps also suspended its program in Ukraine in April.

Schuetz was initially placed in western Kenya with a public health program but
his house was broken into and his belongings stolen, so the program moved him to
another province, where he stayed for two years.

'They taught us to be smart about our surroundings and to trust the hairs on the
back of our necks to sense whether it was a safe situation or not. And some
things like bombings or grenade attacks, you just can't prepare for other than
leaving the country,'he said

Anna Martin a Peace Corps volunteer in Busia, Kenya from 2010-12 who still lives
in the country, said she always felt safe as a Peace Corps volunteer because the
U.S. mission was 'always making the best decisions regarding our safety and
well-being.'

'My opinion... is that things just weren't getting better,' said Martin.

'Peace Corps had already taken measures to protect volunteers but had to
ultimately make a bigger decision. And it a wise one.'

At full strength the Peace Corps has had more than 125 volunteers in Kenya in
recent years, and the pull-outs will hurt communities receiving American
assistance.

Shira Kramer, the spokeswoman for the Peace Corps, said the program hopes the
volunteers can return 'to support the country in meeting its development goals.'

A third recent Peace Corps volunteer in Kenya, Travis Axe, said there was no
doubt that aid groups, schools and pharmacies would be negatively affected by
the pull-out.

'Kenya is spearheading the growth and trends of so many sectors in East Africa;
it is a shame to see such a wonderful program be cut from a country that has so
much potential,' he said.

LOAD-DATE: July 24, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDM


                   Copyright 2014 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              281 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                   MailOnline

                      July 24, 2014 Thursday 10:16 AM GMT

Syrian Islamist group planning terror attack on Norway in days, warns country's
intelligence service

BYLINE: SIMON TOMLINSON

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 297 words



     ·    Security service tipped off about imminent 'concrete threat' from
          jihadists
     ·    Intelligence chief has received 'reliable information' of attack
          'within days'
     ·    50 Norwegians travelled to Syria last month - and half have now
          returned


Norway's intelligence service today said it has received information about an
imminent 'concrete threat' against Norway from people with links to Islamic
fighters in Syria.

Benedicte Bjoernland, the head of Norwegian security service PST, said the
agency had received 'reliable information' from a foreign partner about some
kind of attack 'within days'.

'It was unspecific about what the target might be,' Bjoernland said, adding PST
has no information about how or when such an attack would take place.

The information involves people who have ties with foreign fighters in Syria,
she added.

According to PST's assessment last month, about 50 people have travelled to
Syria from Norway as foreign fighters, half of whom have now returned to Norway.

Bjoernland declined to give further details.

The concerns echo those in the UK, where it is thought as many as 1,500 young
British Muslims have answered the calls of rebels to travel to Syria and Iraq to
join the terror war.

David Cameron has warned that British jihadis coming back to the UK after
fighting in Syria and Iraq are 'the most serious threat to Britain's security
there is today'.

And in April, the Metropolitan Police issued a plea for people to come forward
with information about their family members if they were concerned about them
joining terrorist training camps in Syria.

Earlier this year, former Aberdeen schoolboy Abdul Raqib Amin, now 26, was
filmed alongside fellow British extremists Reyaad Khan and Nasser Muthana, both
20, urging other Muslims to fight for ISIS in the Middle East.

LOAD-DATE: July 24, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDM


                   Copyright 2014 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              282 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                    RTE News

                      July 24, 2014 Thursday 12:48 PM GMT

Norway told of imminent 'terrorist attack'

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 92 words



HIGHLIGHT: Norway told of 'imminent' attack


An Islamist militant group with ties to Syria may be planning an attack in
Norway, possibly within the coming days, Benedicte Bjoernland, the head of the
Norwegian Police Security Service, PST, has said.

"The PST has received information that persons related to an extreme (Islamist)
group in Syria may be planning to carry out a terrorist act in Norway," Ms
Bjoernland told a news conference.

"They may be planning to carry out the attack within a short period of time,
probably within a few days. But we do not know how, when and in what manner,"
she said.

LOAD-DATE: July 24, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication


     Copyright 2014 RTE Commercial Enterprises Ltd / Radio Telefís Éireann
                              All Rights Reserved

                              283 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                              Western Daily Press

                             July 24, 2014 Thursday

Global deaths in terrorism attacks soar

SECTION: NEWS:ARMED FORCES; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 326  words


The number of people killed in acts of terrorism across the world has risen by
nearly a third in the past year, British experts have found.

Bath-based risk analysis company Maplecroft found that over the last 12 months,
global deaths have risen 30 per cent compared to the previous five-year average.

The figures come as part of Maplecroft's Terrorism and Security Dashboard
(MTSD), released yesterday, which logs, analyses and maps every reported
incident of terrorism worldwide - forming a global ranking of 197 countries on
their risk of terror attacks.

It found that in the 12 months before July 1 there were 18,668 fatalities
compared to an average of 14,443 for the five years before that.

Over the same period, the MTSD recorded 9,471 attacks - an average of 26 a day -
down from a five-year average of 10,468. According to the dashboard, Iraq has
endured the highest number of attacks in the last year with 3,158 incidents,
while terrorism in Nigeria is the world's deadliest, recording the highest
number of deaths per attack, with an average of 24.

The dashboard, which draws on Maplecroft's seven years of global data to reveal
terrorism and security trends across the 197 countries, found that China, Egypt,
Kenya and Libya have seen the most significant increases in the risk of
terrorist attacks.

Chief executive Alyson Warhurst said: "The dynamic nature of terrorism means
individual events are impossible to predict. However, up-to-date global
intelligence on the intensity, frequency, precise location and type of attacks
can help organisations to make informed decisions relating to market entry,
security measures for in-country operations, duty of care obligations and supply
chain continuity."

It classifies 12 countries as "extreme risk", including Iraq at the top as most
at risk, as well as Afghanistan, Pakistan, Somalia, Yemen, Syria, Lebanon and
Libya. It also includes the growth economies of Nigeria, the Philippines,
Colombia and Kenya.

LOAD-DATE: July 23, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                           Copyright 2014 Localworld
                              All Rights Reserved

                              284 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                            Aberdeen Evening Express

                              July 25, 2014 Friday

Dons fans tell of fleeing in terror as 200 thugs attacked

BYLINE: Emma Lofgren

SECTION: NEWS; OTHER; Others; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 558 words


A DONS fan today described the moment the Red Army were attacked by 200
hooligans in the Netherlands.

The incidents happened before and after the Dons' 2-1 win in Groningen.

While the Reds fans were enjoying pre-match refreshments in the city centre fan
zone, hundreds of FC Groningen supporters charged at them, throwing chairs,
fireworks and smoke bombs.

Heating engineer Neil Anderson said he noticed the mood was starting to turn
sour moments before the attack.

The 27-year-old from the West End said: "We were all drinking and singing
together - Aberdeen and Groningen fans. But I noticed as the day went on a few
of the Groningen fans were starting to get in your face.

"Suddenly we saw all these people running and there must have been four or five
riot police vans there too.

"We went over to see what was happening and we could see chairs being thrown and
firecrackers and smoke bombs set off.

"I saw one boy coming away from the middle of it and his nose was gushing with
blood.

"It just all kicked off so quickly. The police didn't really know what to do.

"It was like they weren't expecting anything like this and didn't know how to
deal with it.

"Again after the game the ultras came to the city centre. They were just
taunting us but the riot police stepped in and they moved away."

Another fan Callum Burton, from Stonehaven, was terrified by what he saw.

The 23-year-old said: "I'd never seen anything like it. It was my first away
trip with the Dons and I was looking forward to the game.

"I know we won, but it put a real dampener on everything for me. "At the time I
was just terrified. I ran for safety."

Aberdeen-based Dons fan Steve Fraser, a member of the Northern Lights AFC
supporters' club, said he was charged at by a group of Groningen fans.

He said: "It was horrifying.

"Everyone was having so much fun marching behind the band, who were playing
Scottish songs, then it all kicked off.

"A bike was thrown at the band and we were than charged by a large group of men
and youths."

Steve added: "There was an ugly atmosphere for a wee while after the match.

"But there were a lot of police about so things soon calmed down.

"It's a shame because the vast majority of the Groningen fans were friendly
towards us."

A spokesman for the Dons said they had no reports of casualties.

He said: "We are in the process of trying to find out exactly what happened but
the information we have at the moment is the Groningen supporters tried to
attack the Aberdeen supporters, but the police stepped in immediately and dealt
with the issue.

"We have had no reports of any Aberdeen supporters being injured but we will
update the information as soon as possible."

The Dutch police had created a fan zone for the travelling support in an area of
bars in the centre of Groningen called Poeleplein and Poelestraat.

Police Scotland had also sent officers over to the Netherlands to liaise and
assist with the Dutch police and Dons supporters.

A Police Scotland spokesman said they had not received any reports back from
Groningen.

More than 1,100 Aberdeen fans were in Holland for the match, which saw the Reds
progress to the third qualifying round of the Europa League.

Goals from Adam Rooney and Niall McGinn saw the Dons through after a 0-0 draw at
Pittodrie last week.

Derek McInnes' men will now travel to Spain next week to take on Real Sociedad.

ajoseph@ajl.co.uk

LOAD-DATE: July 25, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: DRAMA Dons fans enjoying pre-match drinks divert their attention to see
what was happening after the attack.
PRESENCE: A police vehicle on the streets after the game.
MAKING THEIR WAY INTO EUROPE: The 1,100-strong Red Army was in fine voice during
Aberdeen's 2-1 victory in the Netherlands.
CHAOS: Fans rush to escape the melee in the Dutch city.
WITNESS: Fan Neil Anderson.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: EE


                      Copyright 2014 Aberdeen Journals Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                              285 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                            Aberdeen Evening Express

                              July 25, 2014 Friday

Dons fans tell of fleeing in terror as 200 thugs attack

BYLINE: Emma Lofgren

SECTION: NEWS; OTHER; Others; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 644 words


FOUR men have been arrested after "Groningen fanatics" attacked the Red Army in
the Netherlands.

Around 200 hooligans ambushed the Aberdeen supporters before and after the Dons'
2-1 win in at the Euroborg.

While the Reds fans were enjoying pre-match refreshments in the city centre fan
zone, FC Groningen ultras charged at them, throwing chairs, fireworks and smoke
bombs.

Dutch police spokesman Wouter de Vries said the trouble was caused by a known
hooligan element of the FC Groningen support, but confirmed one Scots supporter
had also been arrested.

He said: "We have arrested three Groningen supporters after the trouble
yesterday. One Scottish supporter was arrested for disturbing public order. But
the Aberdeen fans behaved very well and seemed to be having a pleasant time in
the city centre.

"We are now looking at the cameras to investigate this further. We will be
speaking to our police officer who deals with football and use his experience to
help with the investigation, because he knows the fanatics who cause trouble at
matches. We would like to wish Aberdeen FC all the best in the next round
against Real Sociedad."

Heating engineer Neil Anderson said he noticed the mood was starting to turn
sour moments before the attack.

The 27-year-old from Aberdeen's West End said: "We were all drinking and singing
together - Aberdeen and Groningen fans. But I noticed as the day went on a few
of the Groningen fans were starting to get in your face.

"Suddenly we saw all these people running and there must have been four or five
riot police vans there too.

"We went over to see what was happening and we could see chairs being thrown and
firecrackers and smoke bombs set off.

"I saw one boy coming away from the middle of it and his nose was gushing with
blood.

"It just all kicked off so quickly. The police didn't really know what to do.

"It was like they weren't expecting anything like this and didn't know how to
deal with it.

"Again after the game the ultras came to the city centre. They were just
taunting us but the riot police stepped in and they moved away."

Another fan Callum Burton, from Stonehaven, was terrified by what he saw.

The 23-year-old said: "I'd never seen anything like it. It was my first away
trip with the Dons and I was looking forward to the game.

"I know we won, but it put a real dampener on everything for me. "At the time I
was just terrified. I ran for safety."

Aberdeen-based Dons fan Steve Fraser, a member of the Northern Lights AFC
supporters' club, said he was charged at by a group of Groningen fans.

He said: "It was horrifying.

"Everyone was having so much fun marching behind the band, who were playing
Scottish songs, then it all kicked off.

"A bike was thrown at the band and we were than charged by a large group of men
and youths."

Steve added: "There was an ugly atmosphere for a wee while after the match.

"But there were a lot of police about so things soon calmed down.

"It's a shame because the vast majority of the Groningen fans were friendly
towards us."

A spokesman for the Dons said they had no reports of casualties.

He said: "We are in the process of trying to find out exactly what happened but
the information we have at the moment is the Groningen supporters tried to
attack the Aberdeen supporters, but the police stepped in immediately and dealt
with the issue."

The Dutch police had created a fan zone for the travelling support in an area of
bars in the centre of Groningen called Poeleplein and Poelestraat.

More than 1,100 Aberdeen fans were in the Netherlands for the match, which saw
the Reds progress to the third qualifying round of the Europa League.

It's understood that no Dons fans in Groningen required consular assistance from
the UK Government. However a spokeswoman for the Foreign Office said: "We are
aware of reports of trouble in Groningen and we are looking into this urgently."

ajoseph@ajl.co.uk

LOAD-DATE: July 25, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: DRAMA: Dons fans enjoying pre-match drinks divert their attention to
see what was happening after the attack.
HORRIFIED: Aberdeen supporter Steve Fraser.
MAKING THEIR WAY INTO EUROPE: The 1,100-strong Red Army was in fine voice during
Aberdeen's 2-1 victory.
CHAOS: Fans rush to escape the melee in the Dutch city.
WITNESS: Fan Neil Anderson.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: EE


                      Copyright 2014 Aberdeen Journals Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                              286 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring Middle East - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                              July 25, 2014 Friday

Saudi imams investigated for "ignoring order on terror attack"

LENGTH: 337 words


Text of report in English by Saudi newspaper Arab News website on 19 July

[Report from Ibrahim Naffee in Jedda: "17 imams face probe for 'not condemning
Sharura raid'"]

The Ministry of Islamic Affairs is investigating 17 imams in Riyadh for
allegedly ignoring a government order to highlight and condemn the recent
Sharura terror attack in their Friday sermons.

Most imams across the country had highlighted the incident and the dangers of
terrorism in their Friday sermons, as ordered by the ministry.

The ministry stated on Friday that it would penalize the imams if the
allegations are proven true.

Tawfiq Al-Sudairi, the ministry's undersecretary, confirmed that 17 imams at
mosques in Riyadh are under investigation for allegedly failing to highlight the
incident in their sermons.

A Saudi newspaper, meanwhile, reported that 100 imams across the country
allegedly ignored the ministry's order to condemn the Sharura attacks.

Al-Sheikh Salman Al-Hadi, an imam in Jedda, told Arab News that religious
leaders play an important role in creating awareness of terrorist activities in
the country.

He said people should be particularly aware of those who "deceive the young and
convince them to fight against their country and society."

The incident in the Kingdom's southern governorate of Sharura took place two
weeks ago when Al-Qaeda militants attacked the Wadia Saudi border post along the
Yemeni border.

The terrorists killed the Saudi commander. Saudi security officers killed three
of the assailants, and shot and captured two others.

This attack was preceded by an assault on the Yemeni side of the border post
with the terrorists detonating a car bomb killing one Yemeni soldier and
wounding another.

The suspected Al-Qaeda assailants were seeking to infiltrate Saudi Arabia from
Yemen, possibly with the intention of carrying out further terrorist attacks.

Saudi security forces seized machine guns and rocket-propelled grenades from the
vehicles used by the assailants.

Source: Arab News website, Jedda, in English 19 Jul 14

LOAD-DATE: July 25, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2014 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              287 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                 Express Online

                       July 25, 2014 Friday 10:32 AM GMT

Was it a terror attack? 'Disintegrated' wreckage of plane carrying 116 found in
Africa

BYLINE: Jane Mathews

LENGTH: 515 words


ALL 116 people on board an Air Algerie airliner which crashed in Mali have died,
Francois Hollande confirmed today.

A plane has gone missing in Africa [PH/Express]

The "disintegrated" wreckage of the plane has been located in a remote part of
the war-torn country.

Almost half of the passengers on board the aircraft were French.

Troops are on their way to secure the site, in the region of Gossi, southwest of
the northern Malian town of Gao.

Al Qaeda armed radicals operate in the area, and the French military is
preparing to help with the recovery of the plane.

The country still has a large number of soldiers in Mali where it is leading
operations against Islamist militants who want to overthrow the country's
government.

A French soldier was killed in a suicide bombing in the north of the country
this month.

Terrorism has not been ruled out for the downing of the Boeing MD-83, operated
by Spanish charter specialist Swiftair.

Air Algeria said emergency measures have bee launched [N/C]

French Interior Minister Bernard Cazeneuve said: "Terrorist groups are in the
zone. We know these groups are hostile to Western interests."

It was initially thought that flight Ahl17 may have been downed by bad weather
after it changed direction to avoid a storm.

However, some experts doubt a storm could have caused the crash.

Jean Serrat, a former French airline pilot, said the cause was more likely to be
"a terror strike on board".

His comments come after a missile strike brought down an Air Malaysia plane in
Ukraine last Thursday, killing 298 people.

A statement from French president Francois Hollande said the Air Algerie
aircraft had been "clearly identified in a state of disintegration".

He added: "All we know is that the crew signalled it wanted to change direction
because of particularly difficult weather conditions."

There were 51 French nationals on board, many of them expatriates on their way
back to Paris and Marseille for the summer holidays.

Swiftair said Air Algerie Flight Ahl17 took off from Ouagadougou, the capital of
Burkina Faso, at 1.17am on Thursday and was due to land in Algiers at 5.10am.

Bad weather seen over Burkina Faso earlier, from where the plane took off
[SAT24.COM]

There were 110 passengers, two pilots and four cabin crew on board the 18-year
old aircraft.

The Spanish pilots union said the pilots and crew were Spanish.

Kara Terki, from Air Algerie, said the other passengers included 24 Burkinabe,
eight Lebanese, four Algerians, two from Luxembourg, one Belgian, one Swiss, one
Nigerian, one Cameroonian, one Ukrainian and one Romanian.

A crisis centre has been set up by the French civil aviation authority, and an
official enquiry will follow.

Air Algerie's last accident was in March 2003, when a Boeing 737 crashed during
a domestic flight, killing all but one of the 103 people on board.

Yesterday's crash is the third disaster involving aircraft in a week.

Malaysia Airlines Flight Mhl was shot out of the sky over Ukraine by pro-Russian
separatists last Thursday.

On Wednesday, 48 people were killed in Taiwan after a plane crashed during bad
weather.

LOAD-DATE: July 25, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDE


              Copyright 2014 Northern and Shell Media Publications
                              All Rights Reserved

                              288 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                 Express Online

                        July 25, 2014 Friday 9:17 AM GMT

Was it a terror attack? 'Disintegrated' wreckage of plane carrying 116 found in
Africa

BYLINE: Jane Mathews

LENGTH: 497 words


THE 'disintegrated' wreckage of an Air Algerie airliner with 116 people on board
has been found in war-torn Mali today.

A plane has gone missing in Africa [PH/Express]

Almost half of the passengers on board were French.

French transport minister Frederic Cuvillier said: "Given the state of the
plane, it is highly unlikely that survivors will be found."

Mr Cuvillier said troops were on their way to secure the site, in the region of
Gossi, southwest of the northern Malian town of Gao.

Al Qaeda armed radicals operate in the area, and the French military is
preparing to help with the recovery of the plane.

Terrorism has not been ruled out for the downing of the Boeing MD-83, operated
by Spanish charter specialist Swiftair, although Mr Cuvillier ruled out a
missile being used.

It was initially thought that flight Ahl17 may have been downed by bad weather
after it changed direction to avoid a storm.

However, some experts doubt a storm could have caused the crash.

Air Algeria said emergency measures have bee launched [N/C]

Jean Serrat, a former French airline pilot, said the cause was more likely to be
"a terror strike on board".

His comments come after a missile strike brought down an Air Malaysia plane in
Ukraine last Thursday, killing 298 people.

A statement from French president Francois Hollande said the Air Algerie
aircraft had been "clearly identified in a state of disintegration".

He added: "All we know is that the crew signalled it wanted to change direction
because of particularly difficult weather conditions."

There were 51 French nationals on board, many of them expatriates on their way
back to Paris and Marseille for the summer holidays.

Swiftair said Air Algerie Flight Ahl17 took off from Ouagadougou, the capital of
Burkina Faso, at 1.17am on Thursday and was due to land in Algiers at 5.10am.

Bad weather seen over Burkina Faso earlier, from where the plane took off
[SAT24.COM]

There were 110 passengers, two pilots and four cabin crew on board the 18-year
old aircraft.

The Spanish pilots union said the pilots and crew were Spanish, and Mr Hollande
said 14 other nationalities on board.

Kara Terki, from Air Algerie, said these included 24 Burkinabe, eight Lebanese,
four Algerians, two from Luxembourg, one Belgian, one Swiss, one Nigerian, one
Cameroonian, one Ukrainian and one Romanian.

A crisis centre has been set up by the French civil aviation authority, and an
official enquiry will follow.

France still has a large number of soldiers in Mali where it is leading
operations against Islamist militants who want to overthrow the country's
government.

A French soldier was killed in a suicide bombing in the north of the country
this month.

Air Algerie's last accident was in March 2003, when a Boeing 737 crashed during
a domestic flight, killing all but one of the 103 people on board.

Yesterday's crash is the third incident involving aircraft in a week.

On Wednesday, 48 people were killed in Taiwan after a plane was downed during
bad weather.

LOAD-DATE: July 25, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDE


              Copyright 2014 Northern and Shell Media Publications
                              All Rights Reserved

                              289 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                 Express Online

                        July 25, 2014 Friday 9:02 AM GMT

Was it a terror attack? 'Disintegrated' wreckage of plane carrying 116 found in
Africa

BYLINE: Jane Mathews

LENGTH: 458 words


THE 'disintegrated' wreckage of an Air Algerie airliner with 116 people on board
was found in war-torn Mali today.

A plane has gone missing in Africa [PH/Express]

Almost half of its passengers were French, and the country's transport minister
Frederic Cuvillier said: 'Given the state of the plane, it is highly unlikely
that survivors will be found.'

Mr Cuvillier said troops were on their way to secure the site, in the region of
Gossi, southwest of the northern Malian town of Gao.

Al Qaeda armed radicals operate in the area. and the French military is already
in the country to help with the recovery of the plane.

Terrorism has not been ruled out for the downing of the Boeing MD-83, operated
by Spanish charter specialist Swiftair, although Mr Cuvillier ruled out a
missile being used.

While flight number Ahl17 clearly changed direction due to bad weather, some
experts doubted a storm could have caused a crash.

Air Algeria said emergency measures have bee launched [N/C]

Jean Serrat, a former French airline pilot, said the causes were more likely to
be 'a terror strike on board'.

A missile strike brought down an Air Malaysia plane in Ukraine last Thursday,
killing 298 people.

A statement from French president Francois Hollande said the Air Algerie
aircraft had been "clearly identified in a state of disintegration".

He added: "All we know is that the crew signalled it wanted to change direction
because of particularly difficult weather conditions."

There were 51 French nationals on board, many of them expatriates on their way
back to Paris and Marseille for the summer holidays.

Swiftair said Air Algerie Flight Ahl17 took off from Ouagadougou, the capital of
Burkina Faso, at 1.17am on Thursday and was due to land in Algiers at 5.10am.

Bad weather seen over Burkina Faso earlier, from where the plane took off
[SAT24.COM]

There were 110 passengers, two pilots and four cabin crew on board the 18-year
old aircraft.

The Spanish pilots union said the pilots and crew were Spanish, and Mr Hollande
said 14 other nationalities on board.

Kara Terki, from Air Algerie, said these included 24 Burkinabe, eight Lebanese,
four Algerians, two from Luxembourg, one Belgian, one Swiss, one Nigerian, one
Cameroonian, one Ukrainian and one Romanian.

A crisis centre has been set up by the French civil aviation authority, and an
official enquiry will follow.

France still has a large number of soldiers in Mali where it is leading
operations against Islamist militants who want to overthrow the country's
government.

A French soldier was killed in a suicide bombing in the north of the country
this month.

Air Algerie's last accident was in March 2003, when a Boeing 737 crashed during
a domestic flight, killing all but one of the 103 people on board.

LOAD-DATE: July 25, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDE


              Copyright 2014 Northern and Shell Media Publications
                              All Rights Reserved

                              290 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                               Independent.co.uk

                        July 25, 2014 Friday 9:16 AM GMT

Frank Lampard joins New York City FC: Lampard will visit memorial of September
11 terrorist attacks;
New York City FC midfielder hopes that the past 13 years have made up for his
error after being part of a drinking pinge in front of Americans 24 hours after
the attacks

BYLINE: Agency

SECTION: TRANSFERS

LENGTH: 250 words


Frank Lampard revealed he plans to visit the memorial dedicated to the victims
of the September 11 terrorist attacks after sealing his move to MLS side New
York City FC.

Lampard was one of four Chelsea players fined by the Premier League club in 2001
for taking part in a drinking binge in front of American tourists in a hotel
near Heathrow Airport just 24 hours after the attack on the World Trade Center.

The 36-year-old midfielder, who completed his move to the new MLS franchise on a
two-year deal on Thursday, insisted he never meant to cause offence and intends
to visit the National September 11 Memorial and Museum to pay his respects.

He told the Daily Mail: "I categorically did not set out to insult anyone or
behave badly in front of the Americans and this is an excellent chance to say
that. I'm very sensitive to the issue and the tragedy.

"I was naive and a young boy at the time. I was out on a day I shouldn't have
been - I certainly wouldn't do it today. I've tried in the last 13 years at
Chelsea to be not just a good footballer, but a good man off the pitch."

Video: Lampard moves to USA in latest transfer talk

When asked about whether he would visit the memorial which is located where the
Twin Towers stood until that fateful day in 2001, Lampard said: "It's a huge
memorial and I will certainly go there to pay my respects."

Lampard left Chelsea in June following a 13-year stint with the west London
club. He is the club's record goalscorer with 211 goals in his 649 appearances.

PA

LOAD-DATE: July 25, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBI


           Copyright 2014 Independent Digital News and Media Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              291 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                   MailOnline

                        July 25, 2014 Friday 8:54 PM GMT

Was Mali plane crash a terror attack? French president refuses to rule out
prospect that Air Algeria jet was brought down as it is revealed a Briton was
among the 116 victims

BYLINE: JOHN HALL, PETER ALLEN and JENNIFER NEWTON

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 2868 words



     ·    Francois Hollande refuses to rule out crash was caused by terrorism
     ·    Says France will spare no efforts to uncover why the plane crashed
     ·    Foreign Office confirm that a British national was on board the flight
     ·    Wreckage scattered around crash site after aircraft exploded on impact
     ·    First images and details emerge of the passengers on board doomed
          flight
     ·    10 people across three generations of a single French family lost
          their lives
     ·    Details emerge as it is revealed student ranted about 'rotten' plane
          online
     ·    YouTube video posted by French man two weeks ago described the
          Swiftair MD83 aircraft as 'old' and 'barely able to reach the airport
          terminals'


French president Francois Hollande has refused to rule out that an Air Algeria
plane, which crashed in Mali yesterday killing 116 people was caused by
terrorism.

Mr Hollande has said that France will spare no efforts to uncover the cause of
the crash as almost half of the passengers were French.

It comes as the Foreign Office confirmed that a British man was on board the
flight and was one of the victims of the crash.

Scroll down for video

Air navigation services lost track of the plane around 50 minutes after it took
off from Ouagadougou in Burkina Faso en route to the Algerian capital Algiers.

Mr Hollande said: 'There are hypotheses, notably weather-related, but we don't
rule out anything because we want to know what happened.

'What we know is that the debris is concentrated in a limited space, but it is
too soon to draw conclusions.'

While Interior minister Bernard Cazeneuve added: 'Terrorist groups are in the
zone.... We know these groups are hostile to Western interests.'

A spokesman from the Foreign Office also confirmed that they were offering
consular assistance to the family of the British victim.

Prime Minister David Cameron said he was 'deeply saddened' by the death of the
British man and said his thought were very much with friends and family.

Mr Cameron has also written to Mr Hollande 'to send sincere condolences for the
loss of so many French citizens', Downing Street said.

Images have also now emerged showing bodies and wreckage from the Swiftair MD83
plane scattered near remote Saharan village of Boulikessi on the Mali-Burkina
Faso border, confirming the world's third major aviation disaster in a week.

It was this afternoon revealed that the plane in question had been described as
'old and rotten' and 'barely able to reach the airport terminals' in a student's
YouTube rant posted online two weeks ago.

Identifying himself only by the name Fares, a video posted online on July 9
shows the student saying he had flown on the doomed plane on a 1,500 mile
journey from Paris to the Algerian town of Batna.

'Air Algerie makes us travel in a plane without a logo, the crew speaks Spanish
and they tell us nothing... Please Air Algerie, do your job. We pay a fortune
for your tickets, he added.

Despite claims the plane was obsolete and should no longer be carrying members
of the public, both Swiftair and Air Algerie have insisted that the plane was in
'good condition' and flightworthy.

But mechanical failure will be high on the list of probable causes of the
accident, which has been described as a 'national tragedy' by French president,
Francois Hollande.

News of the student's YouTube rant came as the first pictures of the
'disintegrated wreckage' of Flight Ahl17 were released and details and
photographs of those on the flight emerged.

Four members of the Daher family - mother Randa, her sons Ali, 17 and Salah, 15,
and her young daughter Shaima, five - were on board the Swiftair MD83 plane when
it came down.

They are among up to 20 Lebanese feared dead in the Air Algerie crash in eastern
Mali.

The country's foreign ministry said its embassy in Abidjan, Ivory Coast
estimated the number of Lebanese citizens on the flight was at least 20, some of
whom may have dual nationality.

Officially the nationality breakdown of the 110 passengers stands at eight
Lebanese, 51 French, 27 Burkina Faso nationals, six Algerians, five Canadians,
four Germans, two Luxemburg nationals, one Swiss, one Belgian, one Egyptian, one
Ukrainian, one Nigerian, one Cameroonian and one Malian.

The six crew members are Spanish, according to the Spanish pilots' union.

'We don't know anything yet. We have just heard from the news that the plane
went missing,' said Amina Daher, Randa's sister-in law. She also showed
journalists photographs of the family.

The family are understood to have lived in Burkina Faso and were travelling via
Algiers to Beirut, where Ms Daher and her three children hoped to visit family
and celebrate the Islamic religious festival Eid El-Fit.

Ten members of a single French family were also killed in the disaster.

Bernard Reynaud, from Lorette, in the Loire department of France, died alongside
his ex-wife, Michelle, who lived in Lyon.

With them were their sons Franck and Eric, and their respective wives Laure and
Estelle. The Reynaud's grandchildren, Nathan, Julie, Alexi and Zoe were also
killed.

All were on holiday in Burkina Faso, where they had friends in Ouagadougou - the
country's capital from where they took off on Thursday morning.

They were on 'the trip of a lifetime', according to friends, who said they had
travelled to Burkina Faso because a relative had married a Burkinabe.

Christian Plaza, who lives in Paris, said family had at the last minute thought
of cancelling the trip as one of the grandchildren, 16-year-old Nathan, had
broken his leg and the cast had yet to come off.

Nathan often spent holidays staying with him and his own son, Mr Plaza said,
adding: 'My son was waiting for him... he'll never come again. It is a tragedy.
It was the trip of a lifetime.'

Also aboard were five people originally from a single family from the central
Creuse department, including Bertrand Gineste, a 55-year-old chemist from the
town of Gueret.

Mr Gineste and his wife Veronique, and their three children, aged between 14 and
19, were all members of a development organisation in Burkina Faso.

Jean-Jacques Dupre, a friend of Mr Reynaud's, said: 'It's difficult, very
difficult, he was an exceptional friend. We worked together for 20 years, and
we've been friends for 40 years, we studied together'.

Mr Gineste employed 23 people at his Marche pharmacy in Gueret, and was also
treasurer of a group aiding Gueret-Zitenga, a department in Burkina twinned with
the French town.

Air navigation services lost track of the Air Algerie-operated Swiftair MD-83
around 50 minutes into the flight after the crew reportedly asked to change
course over fears it was flying into a storm.

Shepherds working in the area claim to have seen the plane burst into flames
after it was struck by lightning, adding that it broke up into hundreds of
pieces on impact with the ground.

A French Reaper drone based in Niger spotted the wreckage, French Transport
Minister Frederic Cuvillier told France-Info radio this morning.

Two helicopter teams also overflew, noting that the wreckage was in a
concentrated area. A column of soldiers in some 30 vehicles were dispatched to
the site, he said.

A statement from Hollande's office this morning added that the aircraft had been
clearly identified 'despite its state of disintegration.'

The plane, which is operated by Air Algerie, was last picked up on radar at
1.55am GMT en route from Burkina Faso to Algiers.

It should have landed in the Algerian capital around three hours later, but
didn't arrive.

French fighter jets, U.N. peacekeepers and others hunted for the wreckage of the
MD-83 in the remote region, where scattered separatist violence may hamper an
eventual investigation into what happened.

French officials have dispatched a military unit to secure the site, according
to a message posted on the website of President Francois Hollande this morning.

The plane was found about 31 miles from the border of Burkina Faso near the
village of Boulikessi in Mali, a Burkina Faso presidential aide said, adding
that it appears to have broken up on impact.

'We sent men, with the agreement of the Mali government, to the site, and they
found the wreckage of the plane with the help of the inhabitants of the area,'
said General Gilbert Diendere.

General Diendere is a close aide to Burkina Faso President Blaise Compaore and
head of the crisis committee set up to investigate the flight.

'They found human remains and the wreckage of the plane totally burnt and
scattered,' he added.

The list of passengers on the plane includes 51 French, 27 Burkina Faso
nationals, eight Lebanese, six Algerians, five Canadians, four Germans, two
Luxemburg nationals, one Swiss, one Belgian, one Egyptian, one Ukrainian, one
Nigerian, one Cameroonian and one Malian.

The six crew members are Spanish, according to the Spanish pilots' union.

The crash comes after a treacherous week for the aviation industry in which 298
people were killed when Air Malysia flight Mhl plane was shot down over Ukraine
and 48 people died in a crash in Taiwan.

Airlines have also cancelled flights into Tel Aviv due to the conflict in Gaza.

The flight path of Ahl17 from Ouagadougou, the capital of the west African
nation of Burkina Faso, to Algiers was not immediately clear.

However, Burkina Faso Transport Minister Jean Bertin Ouedragor said the flight
had been asked to change route because of a storm around 30 minutes after taking
off.

PRODUCTION OF MD-80 AIRCRAFT MODELS ENDED 15 YEARS AGO

Spanish airline company Swiftair has a relatively clean safety record, with five
accidents since 1977, two of which caused a total of eight deaths, according to
the Washington-based Flight Safety Foundation.

The MD-83 aircraft which crashed in north Africa is believed to be around 18
years old and one of four owned by the company.

The model is part of a series of jets built since the early 1980s by McDonnell
Douglas, a U.S. plane maker now owned by Boeing.

The jet's two engines are made by Pratt & Whitney, a unit of United
Technologies.

McDonnell Douglas stopped producing the MD-80 airliner family in 1999, but it
remains in widespread use.

According to British consultancy Flightglobal Ascend, there are 482 MD-80
aircraft in operation, many of them in the United States.

A source from Air Algerie told the AFP news agency said contact was lost while
it was still in Malian air space approaching the border with Algeria.

The source said: 'The plane was not far from the Algerian frontier when the crew
was asked to make a detour because of poor visibility and to prevent the risk of
collision with another aircraft on the Algiers-Bamako route.

'Contact was lost after the change of course.'

A diplomat in the Malian capital Bamako also confirmed said that the north of
the country - which lies on the plane's likely flight path - was struck by a
powerful sandstorm overnight.

The vast deserts and mountains of northern Mali fell under control of ethnic
Tuareg separatists and then al-Qaida-linked Islamic extremists after a military
coup in 2012.

The French-led intervention scattered the extremists, but the Tuaregs have
pushed back against the authority of the Bamako-based government.

Meanwhile, the threat from Islamic militants hasn't disappeared, and France is
giving its troops a new and larger anti-terrorist mission across the region.

A senior French official said it seems unlikely that fighters in Mali had the
kind of weaponry that could shoot down a jetliner at cruising altitude.

While al-Qaida's North Africa branch is believed to have an SA-7 surface-to-air
missile, also known as MANPADS, most airliners would normally fly out of range
of these shoulder-fired weapons.

They can hit targets flying up to roughly 12,000-15,000 feet.

The MD-83 is part of a series of long-range jets built since the early 1980s by
McDonnell Douglas, a U.S. plane maker now owned by Boeing.

'Boeing is aware of the report (on the missing aircraft). We are awaiting
additional information,' a spokesman for the planemaker said.

The crash comes as a recovery operation got underway in Taiwan to remove plane
seats and fuselage from homes after Wednesday's plane crash there killed 48
people.

Yesterday the airline announced that stormy weather trailing behind a typhoon
was the likely cause of the crash which also injured ten people on the plane and
five on the ground.

The ATR-72 operated by Taiwan's TransAsia Airways was carrying 58 passengers and
crew when it crashed while trying to land in the Penghu island chain in the
Taiwan Strait between Taiwan and China.

Meanwhile, an international investigation has been launched after Malaysia
Airlines flight Mhl was shot down by a surface-to-air missile over Ukraine,
killing all 298 people on board.

Concerns were first raised about the plane when it disappeared from radar
screens while passing over the city of Donetsk last Thursday.

The plane was travelling at 33,000 feet on a pre-determined flight path when it
suddenly vanished from trackers, immediately notifying air traffic controllers
of the prospect that the plane had either crashed or made an emergency landing.

Flight radars generally monitor moving objects only, so if an aircraft
disappears from the screens it either means the plane has become stationary or
there has been a fault with the tracking system.

Tragically in the case of Mhl the former was true - but it wasn't until body
parts and plane wreckage were spotted scattered over an eight square-mile area
in eastern Ukraine that a crash could be officially confirmed.

In the case of the missing Malaysia Airlines flight Mhl0, the latter was the
true, where it is believed the radar transponder system was deliberately turned
off by someone on board.

That plane is believed to have crashed in the Indian Ocean, killing all 239
people on board, but the wreckage has never been found and the cause of the
disaster is unknown.

One of Algeria's worst air disasters occurred in February this year, when a
C-130 military aircraft carrying 78 people crashed in the mountainous northeast,
killing more than 70 people.

Tamanrasset in the deep south was the site of the country's worst ever civilian
air disaster, in March 2003.

In that accident, all but one of 103 people on board were killed when an Air
Algerie passenger plane crashed on takeoff after one of its engines caught fire.

The sole survivor, a young Algerian soldier, was critically injured.

WILL YOU GET ON A PLANE AGAIN? AVIATION FATALITIES SOAR 300% - BUT EXPERTS
INSIST 2014 IS STILL ONE OF THE SAFEST YEARS IN HISTORY

In a week that has seen three major air disasters, just days before the busiest
weekend for airports over the summer holidays, questions are being raised about
the safety of air travel.

After a Swiftair flight crashed today, killing 119 people on board, a TransAsia
Airways jet fell from the sky yesterday with 47 dead, and the Malaysia Airlines
jet that was shot down over Ukraine last week with 298 fatalities, travellers
are asking whether it is safe to fly.

Aviation experts claim 2014 is one of the safest years in air transport history
in terms of the number of crashes.

However, figures reveal fatalities from air disasters have soared by 300 per
cent from last year, including the three major plane crashes in the past week.

There have been 763 passengers and crew killed in plane disasters so far this
year - 498 higher than the 265 people that died in 2013.

The figure is 396 higher than the 10-year average to July of 376.

It also makes July the fifth worst month in aviation history in terms of
aviation disaster fatalities.

However, air travel experts are urging holidaymakers that it is still safe to
fly.

Harro Ranter, president of the Aviation Safety Network, described 2014 as 'among
the safest years in modern aviation history - since 1946'.

He added the number of fatal plane accidents this year - including today's
Algerian jet - is 12 - five below the ten-year average to July 24.

The 12 incidents in the past seven months include the TransAsia aircraft that
crashed while trying to land on an island off Taiwan, killing all 47 people on
board.

The figure is down from the 10-year average of 17 fatal crashes.

Mr Ranter said: 'The recent accidents do not suggest that there is a specific
common underlying safety issue.'

However, figures by the network, which tracks crashes and fatalities worldwide,
reveal the number of people killed in air travel disasters has increased
significantly already this year, due to the two Malaysia Airlines disasters.

The total number of passengers and crew killed on board the missing Mhl0, and on
board the Mhl flight which was shot down while flying over Ukraine is 517.

Ranter told www.thestar.com: 'It has been an exceptional year because of these
two high-profile accidents, which really mark the safety profile of this year.

'[The number of fatal crashes is] quite significantly below the 10-year average,
although the number of fatalities is markedly higher because of these two
high-profile accidents.'

According to International Air Transport Association, which represents 240 of
the world's airlines, more than three billion people flew safely on 36.4 million
flights last year.

LOAD-DATE: July 25, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDM


                   Copyright 2014 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              292 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                   MailOnline

                        July 25, 2014 Friday 1:50 PM GMT

First images emerge of Air Algerie crash site and victims, as French president
refuses to rule out prospect of terror attack taking down plane and killing all
116 on board

BYLINE: JOHN HALL

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 2622 words



     ·    Four members of the Daher family were on board the doomed aircraft
     ·    Mother Randa Daher was travelling with three children to visit Lebanon
     ·    Group were hoping to arrive in Beirut in time for Islam's Eid El-Fit
          festival
     ·    Meanwhile three generations of a single family were also killed in the
          crash
     ·    Reynaud family from Lorette in France were visiting friends in Burkina
          Faso
     ·    Swiftair MD-83 vanished 50mins after take-off from capital Ouagadougou
     ·    Images of wreckage near Mali's Boulikessi desert village has now
          emerged
     ·    Plane 'made detour over fears it was flying into a storm over northern
          Mali'
     ·    Shepherds in the area say it caught fire after being struck by
          lightning
     ·    But Francois Hollande refuses to rule out a terrorist attack in area
          dominated by al-Qaeda linked militants and Tuareg separatists


The first images have emerged of the crash site and victims of an Air Algerie
flight which crashed in eastern Mali killing all 116 people on board.

Air navigation services lost track of the plane around 50 minutes after it took
off from Ouagadougou in Burkina Faso en route to the Algerian capital Algiers.

This morning French president Francois Hollande refused to rule out the prospect
that the plane was downed in a terror attack, although shepherds working in the
area say they saw the plane burst into flames after it was struck by lightning.

Images have now emerged showing bodies and wreckage from the Swiftair MD83 plane
scattered near remote Saharan village of Boulikessi on the Mali-Burkina Faso
border, confirming the world's third major aviation disaster in a week.

Scroll down for videos

Four members of the Daher family - mother Randa, her sons Ali, 17 and Salah, 15,
and her young daughter Shaima, five - were on board the Swiftair MD83 plane when
it came down.

They are among up to 20 Lebanese feared dead in the Air Algerie crash in eastern
Mali.

The country's foreign ministry said its embassy in Abidjan, Ivory Coast
estimated the number of Lebanese citizens on the flight was at least 20, some of
whom may have dual nationality.

Officially the nationality breakdown of the 110 passengers stands at eight
Lebanese, 51 French, 27 Burkina Faso nationals, six Algerians, five Canadians,
four Germans, two Luxemburg nationals, one Swiss, one Belgian, one Egyptian, one
Ukrainian, one Nigerian, one Cameroonian and one Malian.

The six crew members are Spanish, according to the Spanish pilots' union.

'We don't know anything yet. We have just heard from the news that the plane
went missing,' said Amina Daher, Randa's sister-in law. She also showed
journalists photographs of the family.

The family are understood to have lived in Burkina Faso and were travelling via
Algiers to Beirut, where Ms Daher and her three children hoped to visit family
and celebrate the Islamic religious festival Eid El-Fit.

Ten members of a single French family were also killed in the disaster.

Bernard Reynaud, from Lorette, in the Loire department of France, died alongside
his ex-wife, Michelle, who lived in Lyon.

With them were their sons Franck and Eric, and their respective wives Laure and
Estelle. The Reynaud's grandchildren, Nathan, Julie, Alexi and Zoe were also
killed.

All were on holiday in Burkina Faso, where they had friends in Ouagadougou - the
country's capital from where they took off on Thursday morning.

Also aboard were five people originally from a single family from the central
Creuse department, including Bertrand Gineste, a 55-year-old chemist from the
town of Gueret.

Mr Gineste and his wife Veronique, and their three children, aged between 14 and
19, were all members of a development organisation in Burkina Faso.

Jean-Jacques Dupre, a friend of Mr Reynaud's, said: 'It's difficult, very
difficult, he was an exceptional friend. We worked together for 20 years, and
we've been friends for 40 years, we studied together'.

Mr Gineste employed 23 people at his Marche pharmacy in Gueret, and was also
treasurer of a group aiding Gueret-Zitenga, a department in Burkina twinned with
the French town.

Air navigation services lost track of the Air Algerie-operated Swiftair MD-83
around 50 minutes into the flight after the crew reportedly asked to change
course over fears it was flying into a storm.

Shepherds working in the area claim to have seen the plane burst into flames
after it was struck by lightning, adding that it broke up into hundreds of
pieces on impact with the ground.

This morning French president Francois Hollande confirmed wreckage of the plane
was found near the remote Saharan village of Boulikessi on the Mali-Burkina Faso
border.

Speaking after a crisis meeting, Hollande also announced that one of the
aircraft's two black boxes has been found in the wreckage. It is now being taken
to the northern Mali city of Gao.

Mr Hollande has said that France will spare no efforts to uncover the cause of
the crash - the third major plane disaster around the world within a week.

'There are hypotheses, notably weather-related, but we don't rule out anything
because we want to know what happened,' the French president said.

'What we know is that the debris is concentrated in a limited space, but it is
too soon to draw conclusions.'

Interior minister Bernard Cazeneuve added: 'Terrorist groups are in the zone....
We know these groups are hostile to Western interests.'

A French Reaper drone based in Niger spotted the wreckage, French Transport
Minister Frederic Cuvillier told France-Info radio this morning.

Two helicopter teams also overflew, noting that the wreckage was in a
concentrated area. A column of soldiers in some 30 vehicles were dispatched to
the site, he said.

A statement from Hollande's office this morning added that the aircraft had been
clearly identified 'despite its state of disintegration.'

The plane, which is operated by Air Algerie, was last picked up on radar at
1.55am GMT en route from Burkina Faso to Algiers.

It should have landed in the Algerian capital around three hours later, but
didn't arrive.

French fighter jets, U.N. peacekeepers and others hunted for the wreckage of the
MD-83 in the remote region, where scattered separatist violence may hamper an
eventual investigation into what happened.

French officials have dispatched a military unit to secure the site, according
to a message posted on the website of President Francois Hollande this morning.

The plane was found about 31 miles from the border of Burkina Faso near the
village of Boulikessi in Mali, a Burkina Faso presidential aide said, adding
that it appears to have broken up on impact.

'We sent men, with the agreement of the Mali government, to the site, and they
found the wreckage of the plane with the help of the inhabitants of the area,'
said General Gilbert Diendere.

General Diendere is a close aide to Burkina Faso President Blaise Compaore and
head of the crisis committee set up to investigate the flight.

'They found human remains and the wreckage of the plane totally burnt and
scattered,' he added.

The list of passengers on the plane includes 51 French, 27 Burkina Faso
nationals, eight Lebanese, six Algerians, five Canadians, four Germans, two
Luxemburg nationals, one Swiss, one Belgian, one Egyptian, one Ukrainian, one
Nigerian, one Cameroonian and one Malian.

The six crew members are Spanish, according to the Spanish pilots' union.

The crash comes after a treacherous week for the aviation industry in which 298
people were killed when Air Malysia flight Mhl plane was shot down over Ukraine
and 48 people died in a crash in Taiwan.

Airlines have also cancelled flights into Tel Aviv due to the conflict in Gaza.

The flight path of Ahl17 from Ouagadougou, the capital of the west African
nation of Burkina Faso, to Algiers was not immediately clear.

However, Burkina Faso Transport Minister Jean Bertin Ouedragor said the flight
had been asked to change route because of a storm around 30 minutes after taking
off.

PRODUCTION OF MD-80 AIRCRAFT MODELS ENDED 15 YEARS AGO

Spanish airline company Swiftair has a relatively clean safety record, with five
accidents since 1977, two of which caused a total of eight deaths, according to
the Washington-based Flight Safety Foundation.

The MD-83 aircraft which crashed in north Africa is believed to be around 18
years old and one of four owned by the company.

The model is part of a series of jets built since the early 1980s by McDonnell
Douglas, a U.S. plane maker now owned by Boeing.

The jet's two engines are made by Pratt & Whitney, a unit of United
Technologies.

McDonnell Douglas stopped producing the MD-80 airliner family in 1999, but it
remains in widespread use.

According to British consultancy Flightglobal Ascend, there are 482 MD-80
aircraft in operation, many of them in the United States.

A source from Air Algerie told the AFP news agency said contact was lost while
it was still in Malian air space approaching the border with Algeria.

The source said: 'The plane was not far from the Algerian frontier when the crew
was asked to make a detour because of poor visibility and to prevent the risk of
collision with another aircraft on the Algiers-Bamako route.

'Contact was lost after the change of course.'

A diplomat in the Malian capital Bamako also confirmed said that the north of
the country - which lies on the plane's likely flight path - was struck by a
powerful sandstorm overnight.

The vast deserts and mountains of northern Mali fell under control of ethnic
Tuareg separatists and then al-Qaida-linked Islamic extremists after a military
coup in 2012.

The French-led intervention scattered the extremists, but the Tuaregs have
pushed back against the authority of the Bamako-based government.

Meanwhile, the threat from Islamic militants hasn't disappeared, and France is
giving its troops a new and larger anti-terrorist mission across the region.

A senior French official said it seems unlikely that fighters in Mali had the
kind of weaponry that could shoot down a jetliner at cruising altitude.

While al-Qaida's North Africa branch is believed to have an SA-7 surface-to-air
missile, also known as MANPADS, most airliners would normally fly out of range
of these shoulder-fired weapons.

They can hit targets flying up to roughly 12,000-15,000 feet.

The MD-83 is part of a series of long-range jets built since the early 1980s by
McDonnell Douglas, a U.S. plane maker now owned by Boeing.

'Boeing is aware of the report (on the missing aircraft). We are awaiting
additional information,' a spokesman for the planemaker said.

The crash comes as a recovery operation got underway in Taiwan to remove plane
seats and fuselage from homes after Wednesday's plane crash there killed 48
people.

Yesterday the airline announced that stormy weather trailing behind a typhoon
was the likely cause of the crash which also injured ten people on the plane and
five on the ground.

The ATR-72 operated by Taiwan's TransAsia Airways was carrying 58 passengers and
crew when it crashed while trying to land in the Penghu island chain in the
Taiwan Strait between Taiwan and China.

Meanwhile, an international investigation has been launched after Malaysia
Airlines flight Mhl was shot down by a surface-to-air missile over Ukraine,
killing all 298 people on board.

Concerns were first raised about the plane when it disappeared from radar
screens while passing over the city of Donetsk last Thursday.

The plane was travelling at 33,000 feet on a pre-determined flight path when it
suddenly vanished from trackers, immediately notifying air traffic controllers
of the prospect that the plane had either crashed or made an emergency landing.

Flight radars generally monitor moving objects only, so if an aircraft
disappears from the screens it either means the plane has become stationary or
there has been a fault with the tracking system.

Tragically in the case of Mhl the former was true - but it wasn't until body
parts and plane wreckage were spotted scattered over an eight square-mile area
in eastern Ukraine that a crash could be officially confirmed.

In the case of the missing Malaysia Airlines flight Mhl0, the latter was the
true, where it is believed the radar transponder system was deliberately turned
off by someone on board.

That plane is believed to have crashed in the Indian Ocean, killing all 239
people on board, but the wreckage has never been found and the cause of the
disaster is unknown.

One of Algeria's worst air disasters occurred in February this year, when a
C-130 military aircraft carrying 78 people crashed in the mountainous northeast,
killing more than 70 people.

Tamanrasset in the deep south was the site of the country's worst ever civilian
air disaster, in March 2003.

In that accident, all but one of 103 people on board were killed when an Air
Algerie passenger plane crashed on takeoff after one of its engines caught fire.

The sole survivor, a young Algerian soldier, was critically injured.

WILL YOU GET ON A PLANE AGAIN? AVIATION FATALITIES SOAR 300% - BUT EXPERTS
INSIST 2014 IS STILL ONE OF THE SAFEST YEARS IN HISTORY

In a week that has seen three major air disasters, just days before the busiest
weekend for airports over the summer holidays, questions are being raised about
the safety of air travel.

After a Swiftair flight crashed today, killing 119 people on board, a TransAsia
Airways jet fell from the sky yesterday with 47 dead, and the Malaysia Airlines
jet that was shot down over Ukraine last week with 298 fatalities, travellers
are asking whether it is safe to fly.

Aviation experts claim 2014 is one of the safest years in air transport history
in terms of the number of crashes.

However, figures reveal fatalities from air disasters have soared by 300 per
cent from last year, including the three major plane crashes in the past week.

There have been 763 passengers and crew killed in plane disasters so far this
year - 498 higher than the 265 people that died in 2013.

The figure is 396 higher than the 10-year average to July of 376.

It also makes July the fifth worst month in aviation history in terms of
aviation disaster fatalities.

However, air travel experts are urging holidaymakers that it is still safe to
fly.

Harro Ranter, president of the Aviation Safety Network, described 2014 as 'among
the safest years in modern aviation history - since 1946'.

He added the number of fatal plane accidents this year - including today's
Algerian jet - is 12 - five below the ten-year average to July 24.

The 12 incidents in the past seven months include the TransAsia aircraft that
crashed while trying to land on an island off Taiwan, killing all 47 people on
board.

The figure is down from the 10-year average of 17 fatal crashes.

Mr Ranter said: 'The recent accidents do not suggest that there is a specific
common underlying safety issue.'

However, figures by the network, which tracks crashes and fatalities worldwide,
reveal the number of people killed in air travel disasters has increased
significantly already this year, due to the two Malaysia Airlines disasters.

The total number of passengers and crew killed on board the missing Mhl0, and on
board the Mhl flight which was shot down while flying over Ukraine is 517.

Ranter told www.thestar.com: 'It has been an exceptional year because of these
two high-profile accidents, which really mark the safety profile of this year.

'[The number of fatal crashes is] quite significantly below the 10-year average,
although the number of fatalities is markedly higher because of these two
high-profile accidents.'

According to International Air Transport Association, which represents 240 of
the world's airlines, more than three billion people flew safely on 36.4 million
flights last year.

LOAD-DATE: July 25, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDM


                   Copyright 2014 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              293 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                   MailOnline

                        July 25, 2014 Friday 1:40 PM GMT

First images emerge of Air Algerie crash site and victims, as French president
refuses to rule out prospect of terror attack taking down plane and killing all
116 on board

BYLINE: JOHN HALL

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 2599 words



     ·    Four members of the Daher family were on board the doomed aircraft
     ·    Mother Randa Daher was travelling with three children to visit Lebanon
     ·    Group were hoping to arrive in Beirut in time for Eid El-Fit
          celebrations
     ·    Swiftair MD-83 vanished 50mins after take-off from capital of Burkina
          Faso
     ·    Mali president says wreckage was been found near Boulikessi desert
          village
     ·    Plane 'made detour over fears it was flying into a storm over northern
          Mali'
     ·    Shepherds in the area say it caught fire after being struck by
          lightning
     ·    France has sent troops to secure crash site, which is in territory
          dominated by al-Qaeda linked Islamist militants and Tuareg separatists


The first images have emerged of the crash site and victims of an Air Algerie
flight which crashed in eastern Mali killing all 116 people on board.

Air navigation services lost track of the plane around 50 minutes after it took
off from Ouagadougou in Burkina Faso en route to the Algerian capital Algiers.

This morning French president Francois Hollande refused to rule out the prospect
that the plane was downed in a terror attack, although shepherds working in the
area say they saw the plane burst into flames after it was struck by lightning.

Images have now emerged showing bodies and wreckage from the Swiftair MD83 plane
scattered near remote Saharan village of Boulikessi on the Mali-Burkina Faso
border, confirming the world's third major aviation disaster in a week.

Scroll down for videos

Four members of the Daher family - mother Randa, her sons Ali, 17 and Salah, 15,
and her young daughter Shaima, five - were on board the Swiftair MD83 plane when
it came down.

They are among up to 20 Lebanese feared dead in the Air Algerie crash in eastern
Mali.

The country's foreign ministry said its embassy in Abidjan, Ivory Coast
estimated the number of Lebanese citizens on the flight was at least 20, some of
whom may have dual nationality.

Officially the nationality breakdown of the 110 passengers stands at eight
Lebanese, 51 French, 27 Burkina Faso nationals, six Algerians, five Canadians,
four Germans, two Luxemburg nationals, one Swiss, one Belgian, one Egyptian, one
Ukrainian, one Nigerian, one Cameroonian and one Malian.

The six crew members are Spanish, according to the Spanish pilots' union.

'We don't know anything yet. We have just heard from the news that the plane
went missing,' said Amina Daher, Randa's sister-in law. She also showed
journalists photographs of the family.

The family are understood to have lived in Burkina Faso and were travelling via
Algiers to Beirut, where Ms Daher and her three children hoped to visit family
and celebrate the Islamic religious festival Eid El-Fit.

Ten members of a single French family were also killed in the disaster.

Bernard Reynaud, from Lorette, in the Loire department of France, died alongside
his ex-wife, Michelle, who lived in Lyon.

With them were their sons Franck and Eric, and their respective wives Laure and
Estelle. The Reynaud's grandchildren, Nathan, Julie, Alexi and Zoe were also
killed.

All were on holiday in Burkina Faso, where they had friends in Ouagadougou - the
country's capital from where they took off on Thursday morning.

Also aboard were five people originally from a single family from the central
Creuse department, including Bertrand Gineste, a 55-year-old chemist from the
town of Gueret.

Mr Gineste and his wife Veronique, and their three children, aged between 14 and
19, were all members of a development organisation in Burkina Faso.

Jean-Jacques Dupre, a friend of Mr Reynaud's, said: 'It's difficult, very
difficult, he was an exceptional friend. We worked together for 20 years, and
we've been friends for 40 years, we studied together'.

Mr Gineste employed 23 people at his Marche pharmacy in Gueret, and was also
treasurer of a group aiding Gueret-Zitenga, a department in Burkina twinned with
the French town.

Air navigation services lost track of the Air Algerie-operated Swiftair MD-83
around 50 minutes into the flight after the crew reportedly asked to change
course over fears it was flying into a storm.

Shepherds working in the area claim to have seen the plane burst into flames
after it was struck by lightning, adding that it broke up into hundreds of
pieces on impact with the ground.

This morning French president Francois Hollande confirmed wreckage of the plane
was found near the remote Saharan village of Boulikessi on the Mali-Burkina Faso
border.

Speaking after a crisis meeting, Hollande also announced that one of the
aircraft's two black boxes has been found in the wreckage. It is now being taken
to the northern Mali city of Gao.

Mr Hollande has said that France will spare no efforts to uncover the cause of
the crash - the third major plane disaster around the world within a week.

'There are hypotheses, notably weather-related, but we don't rule out anything
because we want to know what happened,' the French president said.

'What we know is that the debris is concentrated in a limited space, but it is
too soon to draw conclusions.'

Interior minister Bernard Cazeneuve added: 'Terrorist groups are in the zone....
We know these groups are hostile to Western interests.'

A French Reaper drone based in Niger spotted the wreckage, French Transport
Minister Frederic Cuvillier told France-Info radio this morning.

Two helicopter teams also overflew, noting that the wreckage was in a
concentrated area. A column of soldiers in some 30 vehicles were dispatched to
the site, he said.

A statement from Hollande's office this morning added that the aircraft had been
clearly identified 'despite its state of disintegration.'

The plane, which is operated by Air Algerie, was last picked up on radar at
1.55am GMT en route from Burkina Faso to Algiers.

It should have landed in the Algerian capital around three hours later, but
didn't arrive.

French fighter jets, U.N. peacekeepers and others hunted for the wreckage of the
MD-83 in the remote region, where scattered separatist violence may hamper an
eventual investigation into what happened.

French officials have dispatched a military unit to secure the site, according
to a message posted on the website of President Francois Hollande this morning.

The plane was found about 31 miles from the border of Burkina Faso near the
village of Boulikessi in Mali, a Burkina Faso presidential aide said, adding
that it appears to have broken up on impact.

'We sent men, with the agreement of the Mali government, to the site, and they
found the wreckage of the plane with the help of the inhabitants of the area,'
said General Gilbert Diendere.

General Diendere is a close aide to Burkina Faso President Blaise Compaore and
head of the crisis committee set up to investigate the flight.

'They found human remains and the wreckage of the plane totally burnt and
scattered,' he added.

The list of passengers on the plane includes 51 French, 27 Burkina Faso
nationals, eight Lebanese, six Algerians, five Canadians, four Germans, two
Luxemburg nationals, one Swiss, one Belgian, one Egyptian, one Ukrainian, one
Nigerian, one Cameroonian and one Malian.

The six crew members are Spanish, according to the Spanish pilots' union.

The crash comes after a treacherous week for the aviation industry in which 298
people were killed when Air Malysia flight Mhl plane was shot down over Ukraine
and 48 people died in a crash in Taiwan.

Airlines have also cancelled flights into Tel Aviv due to the conflict in Gaza.

The flight path of Ahl17 from Ouagadougou, the capital of the west African
nation of Burkina Faso, to Algiers was not immediately clear.

However, Burkina Faso Transport Minister Jean Bertin Ouedragor said the flight
had been asked to change route because of a storm around 30 minutes after taking
off.

PRODUCTION OF MD-80 AIRCRAFT MODELS ENDED 15 YEARS AGO

Spanish airline company Swiftair has a relatively clean safety record, with five
accidents since 1977, two of which caused a total of eight deaths, according to
the Washington-based Flight Safety Foundation.

The MD-83 aircraft which crashed in north Africa is believed to be around 18
years old and one of four owned by the company.

The model is part of a series of jets built since the early 1980s by McDonnell
Douglas, a U.S. plane maker now owned by Boeing.

The jet's two engines are made by Pratt & Whitney, a unit of United
Technologies.

McDonnell Douglas stopped producing the MD-80 airliner family in 1999, but it
remains in widespread use.

According to British consultancy Flightglobal Ascend, there are 482 MD-80
aircraft in operation, many of them in the United States.

A source from Air Algerie told the AFP news agency said contact was lost while
it was still in Malian air space approaching the border with Algeria.

The source said: 'The plane was not far from the Algerian frontier when the crew
was asked to make a detour because of poor visibility and to prevent the risk of
collision with another aircraft on the Algiers-Bamako route.

'Contact was lost after the change of course.'

A diplomat in the Malian capital Bamako also confirmed said that the north of
the country - which lies on the plane's likely flight path - was struck by a
powerful sandstorm overnight.

The vast deserts and mountains of northern Mali fell under control of ethnic
Tuareg separatists and then al-Qaida-linked Islamic extremists after a military
coup in 2012.

The French-led intervention scattered the extremists, but the Tuaregs have
pushed back against the authority of the Bamako-based government.

Meanwhile, the threat from Islamic militants hasn't disappeared, and France is
giving its troops a new and larger anti-terrorist mission across the region.

A senior French official said it seems unlikely that fighters in Mali had the
kind of weaponry that could shoot down a jetliner at cruising altitude.

While al-Qaida's North Africa branch is believed to have an SA-7 surface-to-air
missile, also known as MANPADS, most airliners would normally fly out of range
of these shoulder-fired weapons.

They can hit targets flying up to roughly 12,000-15,000 feet.

The MD-83 is part of a series of long-range jets built since the early 1980s by
McDonnell Douglas, a U.S. plane maker now owned by Boeing.

'Boeing is aware of the report (on the missing aircraft). We are awaiting
additional information,' a spokesman for the planemaker said.

The crash comes as a recovery operation got underway in Taiwan to remove plane
seats and fuselage from homes after Wednesday's plane crash there killed 48
people.

Yesterday the airline announced that stormy weather trailing behind a typhoon
was the likely cause of the crash which also injured ten people on the plane and
five on the ground.

The ATR-72 operated by Taiwan's TransAsia Airways was carrying 58 passengers and
crew when it crashed while trying to land in the Penghu island chain in the
Taiwan Strait between Taiwan and China.

Meanwhile, an international investigation has been launched after Malaysia
Airlines flight Mhl was shot down by a surface-to-air missile over Ukraine,
killing all 298 people on board.

Concerns were first raised about the plane when it disappeared from radar
screens while passing over the city of Donetsk last Thursday.

The plane was travelling at 33,000 feet on a pre-determined flight path when it
suddenly vanished from trackers, immediately notifying air traffic controllers
of the prospect that the plane had either crashed or made an emergency landing.

Flight radars generally monitor moving objects only, so if an aircraft
disappears from the screens it either means the plane has become stationary or
there has been a fault with the tracking system.

Tragically in the case of Mhl the former was true - but it wasn't until body
parts and plane wreckage were spotted scattered over an eight square-mile area
in eastern Ukraine that a crash could be officially confirmed.

In the case of the missing Malaysia Airlines flight Mhl0, the latter was the
true, where it is believed the radar transponder system was deliberately turned
off by someone on board.

That plane is believed to have crashed in the Indian Ocean, killing all 239
people on board, but the wreckage has never been found and the cause of the
disaster is unknown.

One of Algeria's worst air disasters occurred in February this year, when a
C-130 military aircraft carrying 78 people crashed in the mountainous northeast,
killing more than 70 people.

Tamanrasset in the deep south was the site of the country's worst ever civilian
air disaster, in March 2003.

In that accident, all but one of 103 people on board were killed when an Air
Algerie passenger plane crashed on takeoff after one of its engines caught fire.

The sole survivor, a young Algerian soldier, was critically injured.

WILL YOU GET ON A PLANE AGAIN? AVIATION FATALITIES SOAR 300% - BUT EXPERTS
INSIST 2014 IS STILL ONE OF THE SAFEST YEARS IN HISTORY

In a week that has seen three major air disasters, just days before the busiest
weekend for airports over the summer holidays, questions are being raised about
the safety of air travel.

After a Swiftair flight crashed today, killing 119 people on board, a TransAsia
Airways jet fell from the sky yesterday with 47 dead, and the Malaysia Airlines
jet that was shot down over Ukraine last week with 298 fatalities, travellers
are asking whether it is safe to fly.

Aviation experts claim 2014 is one of the safest years in air transport history
in terms of the number of crashes.

However, figures reveal fatalities from air disasters have soared by 300 per
cent from last year, including the three major plane crashes in the past week.

There have been 763 passengers and crew killed in plane disasters so far this
year - 498 higher than the 265 people that died in 2013.

The figure is 396 higher than the 10-year average to July of 376.

It also makes July the fifth worst month in aviation history in terms of
aviation disaster fatalities.

However, air travel experts are urging holidaymakers that it is still safe to
fly.

Harro Ranter, president of the Aviation Safety Network, described 2014 as 'among
the safest years in modern aviation history - since 1946'.

He added the number of fatal plane accidents this year - including today's
Algerian jet - is 12 - five below the ten-year average to July 24.

The 12 incidents in the past seven months include the TransAsia aircraft that
crashed while trying to land on an island off Taiwan, killing all 47 people on
board.

The figure is down from the 10-year average of 17 fatal crashes.

Mr Ranter said: 'The recent accidents do not suggest that there is a specific
common underlying safety issue.'

However, figures by the network, which tracks crashes and fatalities worldwide,
reveal the number of people killed in air travel disasters has increased
significantly already this year, due to the two Malaysia Airlines disasters.

The total number of passengers and crew killed on board the missing Mhl0, and on
board the Mhl flight which was shot down while flying over Ukraine is 517.

Ranter told www.thestar.com: 'It has been an exceptional year because of these
two high-profile accidents, which really mark the safety profile of this year.

'[The number of fatal crashes is] quite significantly below the 10-year average,
although the number of fatalities is markedly higher because of these two
high-profile accidents.'

According to International Air Transport Association, which represents 240 of
the world's airlines, more than three billion people flew safely on 36.4 million
flights last year.

LOAD-DATE: July 25, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDM


                   Copyright 2014 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              294 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                   MailOnline

                        July 25, 2014 Friday 1:04 PM GMT

First images emerge of Air Algerie victims, as French president refuses to rule
out prospect of terror attack causing crash in Sahara, which killed all 116
people on board

BYLINE: JOHN HALL

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 2416 words



     ·    Four members of the Daher family were on board the doomed aircraft
     ·    Mother Randa Daher was travelling with her two sons, Ali, 17 and
          Salah, 15
     ·    Daughter Shaima, five, was also with them on visit to relatives in
          Lebanon
     ·    Group were hoping to arrive in Beirut in time for Eid El-Fit
          celebrations
     ·    Swiftair MD-83 vanished 50mins after take-off from capital of Burkina
          Faso
     ·    Mali president says wreckage was been found near Boulikessi desert
          village
     ·    Plane 'made detour over fears it was flying into a storm over northern
          Mali'
     ·    Shepherds in the area say it caught fire after being struck by
          lightning
     ·    France has sent troops to secure crash site, which is in territory
          dominated by al-Qaeda linked Islamist militants and Tuareg separatists


The first images have emerged of the victims of an Air Algerie flight which
crashed in eastern Mali killing all 116 people on board.

Four members of the Daher family -  mother Randa, her sons Ali, 17 and Salah,
15, and her young daughter Shaima, five - were on board the Swiftair MD83 plane
when it came down near the remote Saharan village of Boulikessi on the
Mali-Burkina Faso border.

Air navigation services lost track of the plane around 50 minutes after it took
off from Ouagadougou in Burkina Faso en route to the Algerian capital Algiers.

This morning French president Francois Hollande refused to rule out the prospect
that the plane was downed in a terror attack, although shepherds working in the
area say they saw the plane burst into flames after it was struck by lightning.

Wreckage and bodies from the plane have already been found, confirming the
world's third major aviation disaster in a week. Officials say are no survivors
of the crash.

Scroll down for videos

The four members of Daher family are among up to 20 Lebanese feared dead in the
Air Algerie crash in eastern Mali.

The country's foreign ministry said its embassy in Abidjan, Ivory Coast
estimated the number of Lebanese citizens on the flight was at least 20, some of
whom may have dual nationality.

Officially the nationality breakdown of the 110 passengers stands at eight
Lebanese, 51 French, 27 Burkina Faso nationals, six Algerians, five Canadians,
four Germans, two Luxemburg nationals, one Swiss, one Belgian, one Egyptian, one
Ukrainian, one Nigerian, one Cameroonian and one Malian.

The six crew members are Spanish, according to the Spanish pilots' union.

'We don't know anything yet. We have just heard from the news that the plane
went missing,' said Amina Daher, Randa's sister-in law. She also showed
journalists photographs of the family.

The family are understood to have lived in Burkina Faso and were travelling via
Algiers to Beirut, where Ms Daher and her three children hoped to visit family
and celebrate the Islamic religious festival Eid El-Fit.

Air navigation services lost track of the Air Algerie-operated Swiftair MD-83
around 50 minutes into the flight after the crew reportedly asked to change
course over fears it was flying into a storm.

Shepherds working in the area claim to have seen the plane burst into flames
after it was struck by lightning, adding that it broke up into hundreds of
pieces on impact with the ground.

This morning French president Francois Hollande confirmed wreckage of the plane
was found near the remote Saharan village of Boulikessi on the Mali-Burkina Faso
border.

Speaking after a crisis meeting, Hollande also announced that one of the
aircraft's two black boxes has been found in the wreckage. It is now being taken
to the northern Mali city of Gao.

Mr Hollande has said that France will spare no efforts to uncover the cause of
the crash - the third major plane disaster around the world within a week.

'There are hypotheses, notably weather-related, but we don't rule out anything
because we want to know what happened,' the French president said.

'What we know is that the debris is concentrated in a limited space, but it is
too soon to draw conclusions.'

Interior minister Bernard Cazeneuve added: 'Terrorist groups are in the zone....
We know these groups are hostile to Western interests.'

A French Reaper drone based in Niger spotted the wreckage, French Transport
Minister Frederic Cuvillier told France-Info radio this morning.

Two helicopter teams also overflew, noting that the wreckage was in a
concentrated area. A column of soldiers in some 30 vehicles were dispatched to
the site, he said.

A statement from Hollande's office this morning added that the aircraft had been
clearly identified 'despite its state of disintegration.'

The plane, which is operated by Air Algerie, was last picked up on radar at
1.55am GMT en route from Burkina Faso to Algiers.

It should have landed in the Algerian capital around three hours later, but
didn't arrive.

French fighter jets, U.N. peacekeepers and others hunted for the wreckage of the
MD-83 in the remote region, where scattered separatist violence may hamper an
eventual investigation into what happened.

French officials have dispatched a military unit to secure the site, according
to a message posted on the website of President Francois Hollande this morning.

The plane was found about 31 miles from the border of Burkina Faso near the
village of Boulikessi in Mali, a Burkina Faso presidential aide said, adding
that it appears to have broken up on impact.

'We sent men, with the agreement of the Mali government, to the site, and they
found the wreckage of the plane with the help of the inhabitants of the area,'
said General Gilbert Diendere.

General Diendere is a close aide to Burkina Faso President Blaise Compaore and
head of the crisis committee set up to investigate the flight.

'They found human remains and the wreckage of the plane totally burnt and
scattered,' he added.

The list of passengers on the plane includes 51 French, 27 Burkina Faso
nationals, eight Lebanese, six Algerians, five Canadians, four Germans, two
Luxemburg nationals, one Swiss, one Belgian, one Egyptian, one Ukrainian, one
Nigerian, one Cameroonian and one Malian.

The six crew members are Spanish, according to the Spanish pilots' union.

The crash comes after a treacherous week for the aviation industry in which 298
people were killed when Air Malysia flight Mhl plane was shot down over Ukraine
and 48 people died in a crash in Taiwan.

Airlines have also cancelled flights into Tel Aviv due to the conflict in Gaza.

The flight path of Ahl17 from Ouagadougou, the capital of the west African
nation of Burkina Faso, to Algiers was not immediately clear.

However, Burkina Faso Transport Minister Jean Bertin Ouedragor said the flight
had been asked to change route because of a storm around 30 minutes after taking
off.

PRODUCTION OF MD-80 AIRCRAFT MODELS ENDED 15 YEARS AGO

Spanish airline company Swiftair has a relatively clean safety record, with five
accidents since 1977, two of which caused a total of eight deaths, according to
the Washington-based Flight Safety Foundation.

The MD-83 aircraft which crashed in north Africa is believed to be around 18
years old and one of four owned by the company.

The model is part of a series of jets built since the early 1980s by McDonnell
Douglas, a U.S. plane maker now owned by Boeing.

The jet's two engines are made by Pratt & Whitney, a unit of United
Technologies.

McDonnell Douglas stopped producing the MD-80 airliner family in 1999, but it
remains in widespread use.

According to British consultancy Flightglobal Ascend, there are 482 MD-80
aircraft in operation, many of them in the United States.

A source from Air Algerie told the AFP news agency said contact was lost while
it was still in Malian air space approaching the border with Algeria.

The source said: 'The plane was not far from the Algerian frontier when the crew
was asked to make a detour because of poor visibility and to prevent the risk of
collision with another aircraft on the Algiers-Bamako route.

'Contact was lost after the change of course.'

A diplomat in the Malian capital Bamako also confirmed said that the north of
the country - which lies on the plane's likely flight path - was struck by a
powerful sandstorm overnight.

The vast deserts and mountains of northern Mali fell under control of ethnic
Tuareg separatists and then al-Qaida-linked Islamic extremists after a military
coup in 2012.

The French-led intervention scattered the extremists, but the Tuaregs have
pushed back against the authority of the Bamako-based government.

Meanwhile, the threat from Islamic militants hasn't disappeared, and France is
giving its troops a new and larger anti-terrorist mission across the region.

A senior French official said it seems unlikely that fighters in Mali had the
kind of weaponry that could shoot down a jetliner at cruising altitude.

While al-Qaida's North Africa branch is believed to have an SA-7 surface-to-air
missile, also known as MANPADS, most airliners would normally fly out of range
of these shoulder-fired weapons.

They can hit targets flying up to roughly 12,000-15,000 feet.

The MD-83 is part of a series of long-range jets built since the early 1980s by
McDonnell Douglas, a U.S. plane maker now owned by Boeing.

'Boeing is aware of the report (on the missing aircraft). We are awaiting
additional information,' a spokesman for the planemaker said.

The crash comes as a recovery operation got underway in Taiwan to remove plane
seats and fuselage from homes after Wednesday's plane crash there killed 48
people.

Yesterday the airline announced that stormy weather trailing behind a typhoon
was the likely cause of the crash which also injured ten people on the plane and
five on the ground.

The ATR-72 operated by Taiwan's TransAsia Airways was carrying 58 passengers and
crew when it crashed while trying to land in the Penghu island chain in the
Taiwan Strait between Taiwan and China.

Meanwhile, an international investigation has been launched after Malaysia
Airlines flight Mhl was shot down by a surface-to-air missile over Ukraine,
killing all 298 people on board.

Concerns were first raised about the plane when it disappeared from radar
screens while passing over the city of Donetsk last Thursday.

The plane was travelling at 33,000 feet on a pre-determined flight path when it
suddenly vanished from trackers, immediately notifying air traffic controllers
of the prospect that the plane had either crashed or made an emergency landing.

Flight radars generally monitor moving objects only, so if an aircraft
disappears from the screens it either means the plane has become stationary or
there has been a fault with the tracking system.

Tragically in the case of Mhl the former was true - but it wasn't until body
parts and plane wreckage were spotted scattered over an eight square-mile area
in eastern Ukraine that a crash could be officially confirmed.

In the case of the missing Malaysia Airlines flight Mhl0, the latter was the
true, where it is believed the radar transponder system was deliberately turned
off by someone on board.

That plane is believed to have crashed in the Indian Ocean, killing all 239
people on board, but the wreckage has never been found and the cause of the
disaster is unknown.

One of Algeria's worst air disasters occurred in February this year, when a
C-130 military aircraft carrying 78 people crashed in the mountainous northeast,
killing more than 70 people.

Tamanrasset in the deep south was the site of the country's worst ever civilian
air disaster, in March 2003.

In that accident, all but one of 103 people on board were killed when an Air
Algerie passenger plane crashed on takeoff after one of its engines caught fire.

The sole survivor, a young Algerian soldier, was critically injured.

WILL YOU GET ON A PLANE AGAIN? AVIATION FATALITIES SOAR 300% - BUT EXPERTS
INSIST 2014 IS STILL ONE OF THE SAFEST YEARS IN HISTORY

In a week that has seen three major air disasters, just days before the busiest
weekend for airports over the summer holidays, questions are being raised about
the safety of air travel.

After a Swiftair flight crashed today, killing 119 people on board, a TransAsia
Airways jet fell from the sky yesterday with 47 dead, and the Malaysia Airlines
jet that was shot down over Ukraine last week with 298 fatalities, travellers
are asking whether it is safe to fly.

Aviation experts claim 2014 is one of the safest years in air transport history
in terms of the number of crashes.

However, figures reveal fatalities from air disasters have soared by 300 per
cent from last year, including the three major plane crashes in the past week.

There have been 763 passengers and crew killed in plane disasters so far this
year - 498 higher than the 265 people that died in 2013.

The figure is 396 higher than the 10-year average to July of 376.

It also makes July the fifth worst month in aviation history in terms of
aviation disaster fatalities.

However, air travel experts are urging holidaymakers that it is still safe to
fly.

Harro Ranter, president of the Aviation Safety Network, described 2014 as 'among
the safest years in modern aviation history - since 1946'.

He added the number of fatal plane accidents this year - including today's
Algerian jet - is 12 - five below the ten-year average to July 24.

The 12 incidents in the past seven months include the TransAsia aircraft that
crashed while trying to land on an island off Taiwan, killing all 47 people on
board.

The figure is down from the 10-year average of 17 fatal crashes.

Mr Ranter said: 'The recent accidents do not suggest that there is a specific
common underlying safety issue.'

However, figures by the network, which tracks crashes and fatalities worldwide,
reveal the number of people killed in air travel disasters has increased
significantly already this year, due to the two Malaysia Airlines disasters.

The total number of passengers and crew killed on board the missing Mhl0, and on
board the Mhl flight which was shot down while flying over Ukraine is 517.

Ranter told www.thestar.com: 'It has been an exceptional year because of these
two high-profile accidents, which really mark the safety profile of this year.

'[The number of fatal crashes is] quite significantly below the 10-year average,
although the number of fatalities is markedly higher because of these two
high-profile accidents.'

According to International Air Transport Association, which represents 240 of
the world's airlines, more than three billion people flew safely on 36.4 million
flights last year.

LOAD-DATE: July 25, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDM


                   Copyright 2014 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              295 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                 thetimes.co.uk

                       July 25, 2014 Friday 12:01 AM GMT

Syria jihadists plotting Norway terror attack

BYLINE: Deborah Haynes, Defence Editor

SECTION: EUROPE

LENGTH: 405 words


Norway was on alert last night after police said that jihadists returning from
the war in Syria may be planning an attack in the next few days.

Armed police - a rare sight in the country, which is a member of Nato - were
deployed at borders, airports and railway stations. Undercover units were
mobilised, and off-duty officers were ordered back to work. Erna Solberg, the
prime minister, delayed her holiday plans and said she would stay in Oslo.

Police intelligence officers said a small group of Norway-based militants had
gained combat experience in conflicts around the globe and had become the
biggest threat to the nation. As many as 50 have travelled to Syria in recent
years.

"We have information indicating that a terrorist action against Norway is
planned to be carried out shortly, probably within days," Benedicte Bjoernland,
the director of the police security service, said. The target was not known, she
added.

Moderate rebels in Syria said the warning showed that the threat posed by
foreign jihadists, including hundreds from Britain, fighting for Isis (the
Islamic State of Iraq and al-Sham) was real. "They are a threat to the whole
world, not just to Norway," said Omar Abu Layla, a spokesman for the Free Syrian
Army. "They have learnt a lot of the fighting ways and they are going to do that
in their own countries. They are a real danger."

Fears of the civil war in Syria threatening security in Europe were heightened
in May with the arrest of Mehdi Nemmouche, 29, a French jihadist, in connection
with an attack on a Jewish museum in Brussels in which four people died.

Norway has already acted against the militant threat from Syria. In May, it
arrested three people suspected of aiding Isis.

Responding to the alert in Norway, neighbouring Sweden and Denmark said they
would not yet raise their own threat assessments, but confirmed the risk from
Islamist militants. Denmark said it estimated that more than a hundred of its
nationals had left to join the fight in Syria. Sweden has said that its biggest
security threat comes from about 200 Islamists who could become involved in
militant attacks, many of them young people radicalised after fighting in Syria.

Norway's most notorious peacetime attack came three years ago, when Anders
Behring Breivik killed 77 people, most of them teenagers, at a youth camp, in a
bomb and gun attack. He said later that the atrocity was a fight against Muslim
immigration.

LOAD-DATE: July 25, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBTTO


                     Copyright 2014 News International Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                              296 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                       BBC Monitoring Africa - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                             July 26, 2014 Saturday

Terrorists planned bomb attacks at Tanzanian gospel rally - report

LENGTH: 348 words


Text of report entitled "Arusha bombers 'planned attacks' at gospel rally"
published by Tanzanian newspaper Daily News website on 26 July

A gospel crusade rally which was to be staged in Arusha [northern Tanzania]
under the organization of the Mkombozi Revival Ministries of Mwanza, had been
halted following reports that bombers planned to attack the gathering.

The five day open-air meeting, which was to be administered by the Mwanza-based
preacher, BG Malisa, was to be conducted at the Railways Grounds in Arusha City
between last Wednesday [23 July] and next Sunday, but had to shelved.

In connection with the alarm, the usual Eid-El-Fitr gatherings that are normally
staged at the city stadium may also not take place next week when Muslims in the
city join their counterparts national wide to mark the end of this year's
Ramadhan season.

Meanwhile, 19-year-old lady - Ms Sumaia Juma - together with her lover a man
identified as Mr Hussein Yusuf Ally got arrested this week after being found
with a total of six Russian-made bombs and one German grenade, as well as a
home-made explosive mill, six rounds of shotgun ammunition and a bag of gun
powder in their house at Sombetini area.

The police also nabbed six other suspects of a recent bomb attack at a local
Indian restaurant and during their investigations they discovered planned
onslaught on two major gatherings here including the Prophet BG Malisa rally.

The Executive Secretary for the Ukombozi Revival Ministries, Pastor Joachim
Mushi stated here that, at first the police instructed them to shift venues from
the open-air Railways Grounds that were considered to be more susceptible to
attacks and use the walled Sheikh Amri Abeid Stadium instead which should have
been easy to man.

"But just as we were in the process of dismantling the platform at Railways and
setting up another stage inside the stadium, we received a new order from the
police that, the Malisa crusade should be abandoned altogether because the
situation was more tense," explained Mr Mushi.

Source: Daily News website, Dar es Salaam, in English 26 Jul 14

LOAD-DATE: July 26, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2014 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              297 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                               Belfast Telegraph

                             July 26, 2014 Saturday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

"Hearts want revenge, but forgiveness is part of moving from victim to
survivor";
When Ginn Fourie's daughter, Lyndi, died in a terrorist attack in 1993 in South
Africa, she was desperate to track down the killer. Not for vengeance, but to
forge an unlikely friendship with him. By Susie Mesure

SECTION: WEEKEND;FEATURES; Pg. 34,35

LENGTH: 1912 words


The man who killed 23-year-old Lyndi Fourie was nowhere near the rifle that
ended her young life on December 30, 1993, when an early New Year celebration in
a Cape Town pub turned into one of the worst tragedies of South Africa''s brutal
apartheid regime. Neither was he present at the criminal trial the following
year when three different men - "mere puppets" according to the judge - stood in
the dock, charged with murdering four people, including Lyndi.

But distance, more than 1,200km in the case of that fateful night, cannot
absolve guilt, something Lyndi''s mother, Ginn Fourie, knew all too well as she
sat "howling" day after day, mourning the loss of her only daughter. And that is
why, amid the grieving, Ginn knew that even to begin to make sense of what had
happened, she had to find out who was responsible. "The injustice of Lyndi
dying. Was that God''s fault? No, it wasn''t God''s fault; it was the people who
pulled the trigger. And not knowing who they were caused the anger."

"  The Heidelberg Tavern, in Cape Town's Observatory suburb, was a popular
student hang-out. Which is why Lyndi, six months from finishing a civil
engineering degree, sat chatting to friends, including Quentin Cornelius, when a
hail of bullets shattered one of the windows. M26 rifle grenades, studded with
nails, and automatic rifle fire quickly followed, turning the cosy tavern into
an instant morgue. The random bullets were indiscriminate, killing and maiming
blacks as well as whites. That the country was but four months from holding its
first democratic elections only amplified the tragedy for South Africa.

Within days, the armed wing of the Pan Africanist Congress - the Azanian
People''s Liberation Army (Apla) - had claimed responsibility: the attack was
retaliation for the South African defence forces killing five - black -
schoolchildren one month earlier. It took a week for the three Apla soldiers
involved - Humphrey Gqomfa, Brian Madasi, and Zola Mabala - to be caught ahead
of a trial later that year.

The ultimate irony is that it was Lyndi, of all people, who was caught in the
violence; Lyndi who had grown up among black people on a farm in the Eastern
Cape; "colourblind" Lyndi, who, Ginn says, "had lots of black friends, and who,
when she was doing civil engineering, really empathised with the plight of black
people because she had to do field work, and during the lunch hour they would
talk to her, and tell her that they were labourers, and absolutely no way could
they ever rise above that". Damp-eyed, Ginn adds: "Whereas she, as a
22-year-old, was at university doing a degree. She used to tell me about it,
weeping, saying, 'How grossly unfair'." '."

"  An utter horror story and yet Ginn, who is relaxing into a soft sofa in a
warm London drawing room, can today talk softly and calmly about what happened.
True, her eyes speak of sorrow - and rather than rehash the exact details of how
she heard about Lyndi's death, she directs me to a new documentary she is in the
UK to promote - but her demeanour is astonishing. Even more extraordinary,
however, is the presence of a large man sitting next to her, albeit with an
upholstery-enforced gap. He is none other than Letlapa Mphahlele, the former
Apla leader and self-avowed freedom fighter, and yes, the man who ordered the
Cape Town carnage.

His was the name Ginn had been seeking but failing to find during those bleakest
months two decades ago. And the reason? She needed someone to forgive. If that
sounds odd, Ginn explains how mercy was the only possible exit from her tunnel
of grief.

"Forgiveness is part of moving from victim to survivor to wounded healer." That
last bit describes her life now, running the Lyndi Fourie Foundation, set up in
her daughter''s memory. And the first bit explains her choice of partner:
Mphahlele himself.

Forgiving came, she adds, from a personal pledge she had made two years before
Lyndi died and a book she had read, Stephen Covey''s global bestseller: The 7
Habits of Highly Effective People. "One of the habits is to establish your
mission statement so you know the direction of your life. I made mine to extend
God''s grace to every person I met." And with divine grace comes extreme
empathy, or as Ginn puts it: "I define forgiveness as a process in which you
take a principled decision to give up your justifiable right to revenge".

Initially this was hard; it meant giving up "anger and hate (which) I wasn''t
able to do. I couldn''t affect my emotions. But I could affect my cognition. And
once I''d taken the decision to forgive, then the emotional aspect takes care of
itself."

"  But first she had to track down Mphahlele, or Letlapa as she calls him,
friend to friend. And that wasn't easy. She remembers the frustration of knowing
the three men charged with the massacre "had been foot soldiers ... but at the
criminal trial they wouldn''t name where the orders came from". That revelation
had to wait until 1997 and South Africa''s Truth and Reconciliation Commission
hearings, Archbishop Desmond Tutu''s groundbreaking initiative to put an entire
country on the path to forgiveness.

It was to take a further five years before the two would meet, at a book launch
in 2002 for Letlapa''s autobiography, Child of this Soil: My Life as a Freedom
Fighter. Ginn, who had heard about the event only by chance, on the radio while
driving to work, remembers bracing herself to meet a monster. "It was very
emotional for me. That emotion was experiencing Letlapa as a human being, not as
a devil with horns and a tail, because I had this perception of anyone who could
do that as an evil person. You think of someone who''s hard and callous and
there was a real human being instead."

"  Afterwards, Letlapa begged her to meet him later that week, in private. "I
don't know if I liked him," she says, recalling her first impressions, "but I
was really moved. The way he greeted me was so profound." She turns sideways on
the sofa, asking him: "Will you show the handshake?" He extends the clenched
fist of black power to her, a white woman now in her sixties whose ancestors had
fought in the Anglo-Boer war. "It was unbelievably humbling. I could see the
remorse in his body language."

"  In the documentary, Beyond Forgiving, made with support from Initiatives of
Change, a global organisation set up in the 1930s to transform societies,
Letlapa, aged 53, remembers that day. "She said, 'In spite of the pain that you
caused me, I forgive you'.'. It was like being struck by lightning out of the
blue on a cloudless day. It was something that I was never prepared for." He
wanted to meet, "soul to soul, heart to heart" to tell her "who I was. How I was
talked into the political fray by the circumstances of the time".

The clincher in their remarkable journey towards friendship came with his
invitation for Ginn to speak at his homecoming ceremony in the tiny Seleteng
community in South Africa''s far north-east. By then, Ginn was midway through a
doctorate on the causes of violence. She recalls, laughing, how she was advised
not to attend. "When I invited my doctoral supervisors to come, they warned me I
was going beyond my limits. They were quite nervous for my safety; they weren''t
prepared to come." She was one of only a handful of whites amid a sea of blacks,
but her talk hit a nerve.

"I told them I''d spoken to my ancestors to know why we were in the situation we
were in and that they were deeply sorry about the hurt and the pain they''d
caused through slavery, through colonisation, through the war, and through
apartheid. The response was enormous. The cheering. People just made their
resonance with what I had said, known." She added: "I understood that shame and
humiliation breed violence. And we shamed and humiliated; we got the violence".

Despite South Africa''s unique history, and those remarkable TRC hearings, which
investigated 35 years of human-rights abuses, granting 849 prisoners amnesty,
including the Heidelberg killers, Ginn admits her stance is unusual. "There were
some radical opinions from the white people, and a bit of hate mail." Even her
family has struggled. Lyndi''s brother Ant, who lives in Margaret River,
Australia, took his time over backing his mother; and Ginn''s husband, whom
she''d rather not name, "would rather be left out of this journey altogether",
disapproving of the pair''s unlikely friendship. She names two other Heidelberg
victims, both maimed, admitting neither "journey the same path".

Although it was faith that pointed Ginn towards clemency, she quashes my
suggestion that faith was a prerequisite. "I think forgiveness is a human
attribute. Letlapa has forgiven equally and he''s an atheist." She''s unsure
whether there is anything particularly South African about her mercy. "That''s
an interesting question. I don''t know that there''s been any survey done to
find out. I think the human heart wants revenge; it''s only human." That said,
she adds: "There''s a lot of forgiveness that''s been offered, and I think the
fact that there are any whites present in South Africa is a tribute to black
forgiveness".

Today, the Lyndi Fourie Foundation exists to push Ginn and Letlapa''s message of
"conciliation and hope" in South Africa and beyond. Not that Ginn expects
everyone to follow suit. "I'"I'm not there to prescribe. I understand that for
some people it's very difficult because of the ongoing challenges they
experience."

"  It does happen, though. Take the woman in the Solomon Islands whose brother
was beheaded in a marketplace and for 10 years had said nothing. "She saw our
documentary and then told us about his head, just lying there. All that grief
bottled up. We were able to support her. And a little lady in Glasgow, who heard
us talk at the cathedral and said she'd been meaning to write a letter of
forgiveness for 30 years and she was going to go home that very night and write
it."

"  And all because justice wasn't enough for one woman who had lost her only
daughter; she needed to forgive as well.

The film, Beyond Forgiving, can be watched on YouTube:
www.youtube.com/watch?v=lt5Uy-iSGMA.

For more on the Lyndi Fourie Foundation, visit www.lyndifouriefoundation.org.za
the victim's daughter who forgave the IRA bomber One of the most poignant
examples of forgiveness to emerge from the Northern Ireland Troubles was that of
IRA Brighton Bomber Patrick Magee and Jo Berry, daughter of one of his victims,
Sir Anthony Berry MP.

The target in the 1984 bombing - in which five people died - had been Prime
Minister Margaret Thatcher, in retaliation for her stance over the recent IRA
hunger strikes.

Magee and Berry (pictured) first met in November 2000 in the wake of the Good
Friday Agreement and continued to meet several times in private after that,
appearing together on 120 occasions to speak about peace building and
reconciliation work around the world. Following her father's murder, Berry, a
mother of one, became a public speaker and in 2009 founded the charity Building
Bridges for Peace. About that first meeting with Magee, she said: "I wanted to
meet Pat to put a face to the enemy, and see him as a real human being."

Magee was born in Belfast but spent most of his childhood growing up in Norwich.
He returned Belfast in 1971 and joined the IRA soon afterwards.

He was arrested in Glasgow on June 22, 1985 and received eight life sentences,
but was released from jail in 1999 under licence as part of the Good Friday
Agreement, after serving 14 years.

LOAD-DATE: July 26, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: REJECTING THE ANGER: Ginn Fourie with Letlapa Mphahlele and (above)
Ginn's murdered daughter Lyndi

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: BTT


                Copyright 2014 Belfast Telegraph Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              298 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                Sunderland Echo

                             July 26, 2014 Saturday

Terror ride sex attacker is first to be jailed under police crackdown Operation
Sanctuary

LENGTH: 125  words


A MARRIED businessman has been the first person jailed as part of a police
crackdown on sex offenders.

Gurhan Sayan, 45, took his victim on a 20-minute terror ride before sexually
assaulting her and dumping her at the roadside.

Sayan, from Chester-le-Street, saw the 28-year-old woman fall over in the street
after a night out and got her into his car.

Sayan, of Plunkett Terrace, was jailed for three years and nine months for
sexual assault at Newcastle Crown Court yesterday, which he admitted.

Gurhan Sayan is the first person to be jailed as part of Operation Sanctuary,
launched to tackle the sexual abuse and exploitation of vulnerable young women.

The total of people arrested under Operation Sanctuary stands at 112 and 19
people have been charged.

LOAD-DATE: July 26, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: NPSE


                       Copyright 2014 Johnston Press Plc
                              All Rights Reserved

                              299 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                                  Daily Mirror

                              July 28, 2014 Monday
                                   Edition 1;
                                Northern Ireland

MANY MORE HIDDEN VICTIMS OF TERROR ATTACK;
By ANDY LINES, CHIEF REPORTER IN NY ON 9/11

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 25

LENGTH: 131 words


THE number of 9/11 rescue workers who have been diagnosed with cancer is truly
shocking.

For the figure to pass 2,500 less than 13 years following the attacks is
appalling.

But given the conditions they worked in, it is maybe not surprising. I remember
trudging through six inches of soft beige dust towards Ground Zero the morning
after the strikes, wondering what chemicals were in it.

The Mirror found Mike Kehoe, photographed climbing a stairwell to almost certain
death in an image that summed up the firefighters' heroism for the world, alive
after the tragedy.

But the man who saved his life, fire chief Roy Chelsen, died two years ago from
cancer linked to his rescue efforts in the aftermath.

It is clear there will be many more "hidden" victims of 9/11 even decades after
the event.

LOAD-DATE: July 28, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: BRAVE New York firefighter after collapse

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DMR


                            Copyright 2014 MGN Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              300 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                               Evening Chronicle

                              July 28, 2014 Monday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

Samurai sword shop terror attack

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 179 words


A ROBBER armed with a samurai sword stormed into a shop and demanded cash.

It happened at 9.42am on Saturday at the Nisa store at Whiteleas Way, in South
Shields, South Tyneside.

Wielding a samurai sword, a man entered the shop and demanded cash from
terrified staff.

But the workers refused and the wannabe robber fled empty-handed.

Following enquiries in the area, a man aged 20 has been arrested on suspicion of
robbery and is currently in custody helping with inquiries. Police are appealing
for any witnesses, and anyone who saw the man armed with the sword go into or
leave the shop or who saw him in the area is asked to get in touch.

Extra patrols are taking place in the area to gather information and reassure
residents.

One local resident, who asked not to be named, said he'd heard about the
attempted raid.

He said: "There was a lot of hearsay within the community about what had
happened but I did hear that a samurai sword was used. Thankfully, nobody was
hurt.

"I know the area itself has a bit of a history of trouble but people have worked
very hard to change that."

LOAD-DATE: July 28, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: NEC


               Copyright 2014 Newcastle Chronicle & Journal Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              301 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                   MailOnline

                        July 28, 2014 Monday 6:28 AM GMT

Did the Oklahoma bomber have another accomplice? How one man's mystery death in
a jail cell and his brother's quest for justice could upend our understanding of
the domestic terror attack

BYLINE: BY TIM TALLEY AND BRADY MCCOMBS, ASSOCIATED PRESS

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 1002 words



     ·    Jesse Trentadue believes his brother Kenneth was arrested by the FBI
          after the 1995 bombing in the belief he was Timothy McVeigh's
          accomplice
     ·    Trentadue fit the description of the mysterious John Doe No. 2 and his
          brother believes he was killed by overzealous interrogators
     ·    Kenneth Trentadue was found dead in a federal holding cell after
          authorities say he hanged himself
     ·    Trentadue is suing the FBI to try to get them to reveal information he
          believes they've withheld from the public for nearly 20 years
     ·    The FBI now maintains McVeigh acted alone


One man's quest to explain his brother's mysterious jail cell death 19 years ago
has rekindled long-dormant questions about whether others were involved in the
1995 Oklahoma City bombing.

What some consider a far-flung conspiracy theory will be at the forefront during
a trial set to begin Monday in Salt Lake City. The Freedom of Information Act
lawsuit was brought by Salt Lake City attorney Jesse Trentadue against the FBI.

He says the agency won't release security camera videos that show a second
person was with Timothy McVeigh when he parked a truck outside the Oklahoma City
federal building and detonated a bomb, killing 168 people. The government claims
McVeigh was alone.

Unsatisfied by the FBI's previous explanations, U.S. District Judge Clark
Waddoups has ordered the agency to explain why it can't find videos from the
bombing that are mentioned in evidence logs, citing the public importance of the
tapes.

Trentadue believes the presence of a second suspect in the truck explains why
his brother, Kenneth Trentadue, was flown to Oklahoma several months after the
bombing, where he died in a federal holding cell in what was labeled a suicide.

His brother bore a striking resemblance to the police sketch that officials sent
out after the bombing based on witness descriptions of the enigmatic suspect
'John Doe No. 2,' who was the same height, build and complexion. The suspect was
never identified.

'I did not start out to solve the Oklahoma City bombing, I started out for
justice for my brother's murder,' Jesse Trentadue said. 'But along the way,
every path I took, every lead I got, took me to the bombing.'

The FBI says it can't find anything to suggest the videos exist, and says it
would be 'unreasonably burdensome' to do a search that would take a single staff
person more than 18 months to conduct.

Jesse Trentadue's belief that the tapes exists stems from a Secret Service
document written shortly after the bombing that describes security video footage
of the attack that shows suspects - in plural - exiting the truck three minutes
before it went off.

A Secret Service agent testified in 2004 that the log does, in fact, exist but
that the government knows of no videotape. The log that the information was
pulled from contained reports that were never verified, said Stacy A.
Bauerschmidt, then-assistant to the special agent in charge of the agency's
intelligence division.

Several investigators and prosecutors who worked the case told The Associated
Press in 2004 they had never seen video footage like that described in the
Secret Service log.

The FBI has released 30 video recordings to Trentadue from downtown Oklahoma
City, but those recordings don't show the explosion or McVeigh's arrival in a
rental truck.

If he wins at trial, Trentadue hopes to be able to search for the tapes himself
rather than having to accept the FBI's answer that they don't exist.

Kathy Sanders and Jannie Coverdale, who both lost grandchildren in the bombing,
are grateful for Trentadue's pursuit of the case. Sanders said she's been
waiting 19 years to see the tapes.

'It is worth pursuing,' Coverdale said. 'I know there was somebody else. I have
never stopped asking questions.'

But former Oklahoma Rep. Susan Winchester, whose sister, Dr. Margaret 'Peggy'
Clark, was killed in the bombing, said she is satisfied that officials have
identified everyone responsible for the bombing.

'I was very comfortable with the decisions that came out of the federal and
state trials,' Winchester said. 'I have reached that point in my life where I
can continue.'

Jesse Trentadue's mission began four months after the bombing when his brother
died at the U.S. Bureau of Prisons' Federal Transfer Center in Oklahoma City.
Kenneth Trentadue, 44, a convicted bank robber and construction worker, was
brought there after being picked up for probation violations while coming back
to the U.S. at the Mexican border, Jesse Trentadue said.

His death was officially labeled a suicide. But his body had 41 wounds and
bruises that his brother believes were the result of a beating. In 2008, a
federal judge awarded the family $1.1 million in damages for extreme emotional
distress in the government's handling of the death, but the amount was reduced
to $900,000 after an appeal.

Jesse Trentadue's best guess about the motive is that his brother died in an
interrogation gone wrong by investigators demanding information Kenneth
Trentadue didn't have.

Jesse Trentadue filed the Freedom of Information Act lawsuit in 2008.

Going toe-to-toe with the federal government has come at a personal price for
Jesse Trentadue, 67, who says he's lost time with his children and wife that he
can't recover.

But he has no regrets, fueled by his love for his brother. Just three years
apart, the two shared a bed, hunted coons together and played on the same sports
teams growing up in a coal camp in West Virginia.

Their paths diverged as adults - Jesse becoming an attorney while Kenneth fell
into drugs and crime - but the brotherly bond never broke. Before his death,
Kenneth Trentadue had overcome his heroin addiction and had a newborn baby at
home in San Diego, Jesse Trentadue said. The brothers spoke by phone from jail
the night before his death, with the two discussing how he would soon be out.

'What I learned growing up in the coal fields is that you fight even when you
know you can't win,' he said. 'Because you have to make a stand on some things.
Justice for my brother is certainly one of them.'

LOAD-DATE: July 28, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDM


                   Copyright 2014 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              302 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                       BBC Monitoring Africa - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                             July 29, 2014 Tuesday

Kenyan police arrest key suspects in Nairobi, Lamu terror attacks

LENGTH: 414 words


Text of report by Elkana Jacob entitled "Westgate, Mpeketoni killings suspects
held" published by privately-owned Kenyan daily newspaper The Star on 29 July

Two terror suspects linked to the Westgate and Mpeketoni attacks have been
arrested in Garissa as they crossed over to Somalia.

Ahmad Muhammad and Nur Gatut, who are in their mid 40s, are of Somali origin and
were arrested by a combined police force drawn from the Rapid Deployment Unit
and the CID [Criminal Investigation Department] last Thursday [24 July]. The two
wanted terror suspects, who had been on detectives' radar for some time, were
arrested after they communicated with their colleagues in Somalia.

Investigations told the Star that the two made two calls to Al-Shabab commanders
in Somalia just before they made it through the Kenya-Somalia border. A
detective assigned for terrorism communication on mobile data said the two had
planned and participated in the 21 September 2013 Westgate attack and 14-15 June
Mpeketoni killings of more than 100 people.

"We have been chasing these two suspects for long. They first made communication
outside Riyadha Mosque in Majengo, Nairobi. Their mobile communication data
shows that they participated a lot in Westgate and Mpeketoni attacks," he said.

A senior ATPU officer said the two are well trained militiamen, with lot of
experience. The two were taken to Mpeketoni police station under tight security
by KDF officers, before being transferred to Malindi on Sunday.

Garissa county CID boss Musa Yego said the arresting officers were drawn from
police headquarters in Nairobi. He said the suspects will be taken to any court
after investigations.

The Star has also established that junior officers from Lamu AP post may be
interdicted and charged for allegedly facilitating and communicating with the
attackers, especially at Mpeketoni during the first attack. The nine officers
are said to have made several calls and sent congratulatory messages to the
killers.

The detectives are also analysing a CCTV footage, which the attackers thought
they had destroyed at one of the banks in Mpeketoni. They suspect the other men
who were in a private Probox car might be the officers who showed them the
directions.

Lamu county commissioner Njenga Miiri, who did not want to disclose more about
the junior officers, said they are not only probing high profile individuals but
also junior staff who may have participated in the killings.

Source: The Star, Nairobi, in English 29 Jul 14

LOAD-DATE: July 29, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2014 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              303 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                          China Daily European Edition

                             July 29, 2014 Tuesday

Heavy casualties reported in Xinjiang terror attack

SECTION: SOCIETY

LENGTH: 123 words


URUMQI - Dozens of civilians were killed or injured in a terrorist attack early
on Monday morning in Shache County, Kashgar Prefecture, northwest China's
Xinjiang Uygur Autonomous Region, local police said.

A gang armed with knives attacked a police station and government offices in
Elixku Township, and some moved on to the nearby Huangdi Township, attacking
civilians and smashing vehicles as they passed. Dozens of Uygur and Han
civilians were killed or injured, according to the local police.

Police officers at the scene shot dead dozens of members of the mob.

Thirty one cars were vandalized,including 6 which were set on fire.

Initial investigation showed that it was an premeditated terror attack. Further
investigation is underway.

LOAD-DATE: July 29, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2014 China Daily Information Co
                              All Rights Reserved

                              304 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                          Future News - Media Planner

                             July 29, 2014 Tuesday

5th anniversary of week-long wave of terrorist attacks beginning in Pakistan

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 137 words


5th anniversary of a week-long wave of terrorist attacks beginning in Pakistan
when a suicide bomber disguised as a security officer blew himself up in the
Islamabad office of the U.N. World Food Programme, killing five. Four days
later, a suspected militant detonated an explosives-laden car in the middle of a
busy market in Peshawar, killing 53 people. The following day, a 22-hour raid on
the nation's heavily fortified army headquarters in Rawalpindi killed nine
militants and 14 others. Two days after that, a suicide bomber detonated a car
packed with explosives near an army vehicle in a market in the northwest Shangla
district, killing 41. Attacks coincided with launch of army's major offensive
against the Taliban along the mountainous frontier with Afghanistan

Event Start Date: 2014-10-05

Event End Date: 2014-10-05

LOAD-DATE: July 29, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                             Copyright 2014 Precise
                              All Rights Reserved

                              305 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                   MailOnline

                       July 29, 2014 Tuesday 7:45 PM GMT

Dozens of knife-wielding 'terrorists' shot dead by police as they attacked
government buildings in China

BYLINE: CHRIS PLEASANCE

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 467 words



     ·    Knife-wielding gang attacked government buildings in Xinjaing province


     ·    Chinese police label attackers 'terrorists' and say they shot dozens
          dead
     ·    Xinjiang is home to Uighur people who have been blamed for past
          attacks


Chinese police shot dead dozens of knife-wielding 'terrorists' dead yesterday
after they attacked two towns in the country's western Xinjiang province.

A gang armed with knives assaulted a police station and government offices in
the town of Elixku, in Shache county, according to local police.

Some then moved on to the nearby town of Huangdi, attacking civilians and
smashing and setting fire to six vehicles.

'Police officers at the scene shot dead dozens of members of the mob,' a brief
report from the country's state-controlled Xinhua news agency said.

An initial investigation showed that it was an 'organised and premeditated
terrorist attack', Xinhua added.

The dead and injured include not just Uighurs, a Muslim people native to the
region, but members of China's majority Han Chinese population, the report said.

U.S.-based Rebiya Kadeer, president of the exiled World Uighur Congress, called
for restraint, saying that she was worried 'China will use this incident to step
up repression, causing more people to lose their freedom.'

The attack took place at the end of the holy month of Ramadan, which officials
had tried to suppress in Xinjiang, an indication of what rights groups say is
discrimination targeting the Uighurs.

Xinjiang, home to many Turkic-speaking Uighurs, has been marked by violence for
years which the government blames on Islamist militants or separatists.

Officials say the rebels are bent on establishing an independent state called
East Turkestan.

Earlier this year bomb attacks on a market in in Urumqi, capital of Xinjiang,
left 39 people dead.

China says Uighur militants have based themselves in countries including
Afghanistan and Pakistan in recent years, and this week China's special envoy
for the Middle East said some had also likely been trained in Syria and Iraq.

Exiled Uighur groups and human rights activists say the government's repressive
policies in Xinjiang, including controls on Islam, have provoked unrest, a claim
Beijing denies.

Xinjiang, resource-rich and strategically located on the borders of central
Asia, is crucial to meeting China's growing energy needs.

Exiles, rights groups and many foreign experts say that most of the proceeds
from this industry have gone to the Han Chinese, stoking resentment among
Uighurs.

More than 200 people have died in unrest in Xinjiang in the past year, the
government says, prompting a tough crackdown by Beijing.

Violence blamed by China on Uighur extremists has begun to spread outside of
Xinjiang. In March, 29 people were stabbed to death at a train station in the
southwestern city of Kunming.

LOAD-DATE: July 29, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDM


                   Copyright 2014 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              306 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                    Sky News

                       July 29, 2014 Tuesday 05:00 PM GMT

'Dozens Killed' In China Terror Attack

SECTION: TOP STORIES

LENGTH: 272 words



HIGHLIGHT: Dozens of people have been killed or hurt in a terrorist attack in
China's Xinjiang region, according to the Xinhua news agency.


  A gang armed with knives attacked a police station and government office in
Elixku, Shache County.

The gang then attacked civilians and smashed vehicles in nearby town Huangdi.

The news agency, citing local police, said "dozens of Uighur and Han civilians
were killed or injured" during the attack on Monday.

It added: "Police officers at the scene shot dead dozens of members of the mob.

"Initial investigation showed that it was a premeditated terror attack."

Shache, also known by its Uighur name Yarkant, is close to the border with
Tajikistan, Pakistan and Afghanistan.

Sky's Asia Correspondent Mark Stone said: "It's extremely hard to verify the
accuracy of news to emerge from Xinjiang province because the information flow
is tightly controlled and foreign journalists' movements there are heavily
restricted.

"Xinhua news agency tends to report only a sequence or version of events
sanctioned by the central government in Beijing.

"It's not clear why state media took more than 24 hours to report the attack."

Xinjiang has seen violent attacks over the last few years, which the China
government blames on Islamist militants and separatists who it says are trying
to establish an independent state called East Turkestan.

In May, an attack on a market in Urumqi, capital of Xinjiang, left 39 people
dead and another 29 were killed by a gang armed with knives at a train station
in Kunming in March.

Exiled Uighur groups have claimed repressive policies set by the government -
including controls on Islam - have sparked unrest.

More than 200 people have died in the unrest in the last year.

PHOTO:

Link to Image

LOAD-DATE: July 29, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication


                              Copyright 2014 BSkyB
                              All Rights Reserved

                              307 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                               Belfast Telegraph

                            July 30, 2014 Wednesday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

Mum's terror as race-hate gang attacked her house

BYLINE: CHRIS KILPATRICK

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 480 words


A MOTHER-OF-TWO has told of her terror after a gang paint bombed her home during
a racist rampage in east Belfast.

So badly shaken by the ordeal, Ruzena Lakatosova said she is now considering
moving her family from the area.

Homes and cars were damaged and graffiti daubed on walls in a spate of eight
linked hate crimes against Romanians and Slovakians.

The windows of two houses in Bloomfield Avenue and Chobham Street were smashed.
Paint was also thrown over the second property.

Two cars were damaged in Rosebery Street and Ravenscroft Street.

Police said it was too early to say if any particular group was responsible for
Monday night''s trouble but have not ruled out loyalist paramilitary
involvement.

One of the victims, who had 'Romanians out' painted on her home in Bloomfield
Avenue, was sitting in her living room watching television with her children
when the property was paint bombed.

Mrs Lakatosova, who is Slovakian and a mother-of-two, said: "Just yesterday I
walked around the area and there was nothing.

"I am scared and frightened and I don''t know why they would do this.

"This is a very good street." She said she had always found people in Northern
Ireland to be "very good people".

Mrs Lakatosova said she was worried the family''s home may be attacked again and
said they did not know if they would continue to live in the house.

PSNI Superintendent Mark McEwan said: "These attacks on people''s homes, attacks
on people''s cars, attacks on homes and many of them family homes with young
children staying in them, are so horrendous in nature and clearly racially
motivated - clearly designed to intimidate and scare people.

"There is a certain level of orchestration to this group of people, some of them
masked, who carried out these attacks but at this point we are unable to say
whether any particular group is involved."

A large rise in racist incidents has been recorded across Belfast in the past
year prompting a PSNI operation targeting perpetrators which began in May.

A total of 21 searches have been conducted, 20 people arrested and five charged,
police said.

A group of men was seen running off towards the Ravenscroft area shortly after
the graffiti appeared on Monday.

The vehicle attacked in Rosebery Street was covered in paint and had all its
windows shattered.

Mr McEwan said all attacks took place some time before 10.50pm on Monday.

Officers are investigating a link between the incidents and are treating them as
hate crimes.

Mr McEwan said police were pursuing a number of lines of inquiry and examining
items for forensics.

SDLP leader Dr Alasdair Mc-Donnell called the crimes "despicable and cowardly".

He said: "Already this year we have witnessed too many racist attacks; attacks
which serve only to create fear and raise tensions in already frightened
communities."

Last month, a Ku Klux Klan flag was raised in east Belfast. It was later taken
down.

LOAD-DATE: July 30, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Ruzena Lakatosova, from Slovakia, with her family and (above) one of
the two damaged cars and racist graffiti MATT MACKEY/HUGH RUSSELL

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: BTT


                Copyright 2014 Belfast Telegraph Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              308 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                              birminghammail.co.uk

                      July 31, 2014 Thursday 10:48 AM GMT

Concert in memory of Birmingham Pub bombings victims;
Campaigners mark 40th anniversary of terror attack to remember dead and thank
emergency services

BYLINE: By Andy Richards

SECTION: WHAT'S ON

LENGTH: 1048 words


The 40th anniversary of the Birmingham pub bombings will be marked with a
charity concert celebrating the lives of those who were murdered.

The show, called 21 Today, in memory of the 21 who lost their lives, will also
say thank you properly for the first time to the emergency services and all who
risked their own lives on the night to save many others.

The event, on Thursday, November 20 at Birmingham Town Hall, will feature the
likes of Steve Gibbons, Quill, former ELO musicians Dave Scott-Morgan and Martin
Smith, Dave Pegg, from Fairport Convention, author R J Ellory's band Zero
Navigator, King Pleasure and the Biscuit Boys and classical musicians from
Birmingham Conservatoire.

Birmingham-born singer-songwriter Phil Pickett, whose wife was injured in the
bombings, and percussionist Hossam Ramzy will also be involved, with more acts
to be confirmed shortly.

And the show will feature a specially recorded song, 21 Today, which has been
produced for the occasion.

The artists are performing for free and all the money raised will be split
between Birmingham Children's Hospital and the Acorns Trust.

21 Today has been organised by Justice4the21, the Birmingham group campaigning
for the truth behind the pub bombings.

Julie Hambleton, whose sister, Maxine, was among the victims, said: "This show
will be a celebration and it will complement other more commemorative events in
that week.

"We want to celebrate the lives of those we lost, the joy and happiness they
brought to us.

"We want to celebrate the fantastic work the fire service and taxi drivers did
on the night, along with the ambulance service, the police and the Salvation
Army who were also on the scene.

"And we want to celebrate the fact that although the bombers left many dead,
they could never kill the spirit of the people in our great city.

"I am truly humbled by the artists taking part who are giving their time for
free, and by all those working with us to make this event a success.

"We are hoping to reveal further artists over the next few weeks so this is a
very exciting time for us.

"I think it will be uplifting and memorable, and I hope we can raise lots of
money for two very worthwhile causes.

"So I'm calling on the people of Birmingham to join us at the Town Hall and help
us send out a message to whoever was behind this dreadful crime all those years
ago.

"The message is simple - evil, such as that which you brought to our city, will
never triumph over good."

Hosting the event will be Birmingham historian and Birmingham Mail columnist
Carl Chinn.

On the night of the tragedy, November 21 1974, the CBSO were playing at the Town
Hall.

Concert-goers remember being told to go home promptly and not to loiter in the
city because bombs had gone off.

At 21 Today classical musicians will perform part of the same work, giving a
special link back to 1974.

And representatives from the emergency services will be presented with bouquets
to thank them for all they did.

"It's high time that this was done because there is no doubt many of those who
were badly hurt only survived because of the bravery and quick-thinking of these
wonderful people," said Julie.                            * Tickets for the
event are priced £12.50. They are available from tomorrow from
www.thsh.co.uk

* For general inquiries email concert@21-today.com

21 Today has been written by Dave Scott-Morgan and Phil Hatton.

THE LYRICS

Oh just a thought in my mind...

And I really don't know why it still gets me so

after all this long time

but there's Twenty one today

Twenty one yesterday, Twenty one tomorrow

The sky looks the same over Birmingham

as I stand inside the rain

thinking of faces I would know,

friends who would come and go

and laugh and joke and play

Oh and there's twenty one today

who never grow old

Now time has played a trick on me

- sent me back in history, and I'm there

I'm walking down that road again

Twenty something old again, not a care

With shadows dancing in the smoke

I push my hands down deep in my coat, it's freezing!

As I turned my collar to the biting wind

I thought I saw your face again, Am I dreaming?

And I hear the cry, and I feel the pain

And I'm living in that night of fear again

Just for a moment...

While shadows dance inside the smoke

I push my hands down in my coat

I turned my collar to the biting wind

And I thought I saw your face again,

But it was just for a moment...

And I hear the cry, and I feel the pain

And I'm living in that night of fear again

So many times I've tried to understand it

But I don't have the words to say

'cept there's Twenty one today,

Twenty one yesterday and Twenty one tomorrow.

THE MAIL SAYS                                          The story of the
Birmingham pub bombings remains an unclosed book - not least because the
authorities have yet to bring to justice the killers who brought such bloodshed
and horror to our city 40 years ago.

But there is another aspect, too, that remains to be dealt with.

For no-one has ever said thank-you properly to the emergency services and other
heroes who risked and endured so much on that terrible night.

That will be put right at the Town Hall anniversary concert.

The event will also give people the chance to remember the tragic victims and to
raise money for charity.

It is going to be a sad but uplifting night.
CALL TO RELATIVES                                          Julie Hambeton is
keen to make contact with relatives of others who died in the tragedy in order
to invite them as VIP guests. Those who died were:
Jane Davis 17              Michael Beasley 30              Lynn Bennett 18
Stanley Bodman 51              James Caddick 40              Thomas Chaytor 28
James Craig 34              Paul Davis 20              Charles Gray 44
Anne Hayes 19              Maxine Hambleton 18              John Jones 51
Neil Marsh 20              Marylin Nash 22              Pamela Palmer 19
Desmond and Eugene Reilly              Maureen Roberts 20              John
Rowland 46              Trevor Thrupp 33              Stephen Whalley 21
If you are a relative or can put 21 Today in touch with them, please email
julie@21-today.com

LOAD-DATE: July 31, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBEM


                         Copyright 2014 Trinity Mirror
                              All Rights Reserved

                              309 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                              birminghammail.co.uk

                      July 31, 2014 Thursday 10:48 AM GMT

Video: Concert in memory of Birmingham Pub bombings victims;
Campaigners mark 40th anniversary of terror attack to remember dead and thank
emergency services

BYLINE: By Andy Richards

SECTION: WHAT'S ON

LENGTH: 965 words


The 40th anniversary of the Birmingham pub bombings will be marked with a
charity concert celebrating the lives of those who were murdered.

The show, called 21 Today, in memory of the 21 who lost their lives, will also
say thank you properly for the first time to the emergency services and all who
risked their own lives on the night to save many others.

The event, on Thursday, November 20 at Birmingham Town Hall, will feature the
likes of Steve Gibbons, Quill, former ELO musicians Dave Scott-Morgan and Martin
Smith, Dave Pegg, from Fairport Convention, author R J Ellory's band Zero
Navigator, King Pleasure and the Biscuit Boys and classical musicians from
Birmingham Conservatoire.

Birmingham-born singer-songwriter Phil Pickett, whose wife was injured in the
bombings, and percussionist Hossam Ramzy will also be involved, with more acts
to be confirmed shortly.

And the show will feature a specially recorded song, 21 Today, which has been
produced for the occasion.

The artists are performing for free and all the money raised will be split
between Birmingham Children's Hospital and the Acorns Trust.

21 Today has been organised by Justice4the21, the Birmingham group campaigning
for the truth behind the pub bombings.

Julie Hambleton, whose sister, Maxine, was among the victims, said: "This show
will be a celebration and it will complement other more commemorative events in
that week.

"We want to celebrate the lives of those we lost, the joy and happiness they
brought to us. 21-today

"We want to celebrate the fantastic work the fire service and taxi drivers did
on the night, along with the ambulance service, the police and the Salvation
Army who were also on the scene.

"And we want to celebrate the fact that although the bombers left many dead,
they could never kill the spirit of the people in our great city.

"I am truly humbled by the artists taking part who are giving their time for
free, and by all those working with us to make this event a success.

"We are hoping to reveal further artists over the next few weeks so this is a
very exciting time for us.

"I think it will be uplifting and memorable, and I hope we can raise lots of
money for two very worthwhile causes.

"So I'm calling on the people of Birmingham to join us at the Town Hall and help
us send out a message to whoever was behind this dreadful crime all those years
ago.

"The message is simple - evil, such as that which you brought to our city, will
never triumph over good."

Hosting the event will be Birmingham historian and Birmingham Mail columnist
Carl Chinn.

On the night of the tragedy, November 21 1974, the CBSO were playing at the Town
Hall.

Concert-goers remember being told to go home promptly and not to loiter in the
city because bombs had gone off.

At 21 Today classical musicians will perform part of the same work, giving a
special link back to 1974.

And representatives from the emergency services will be presented with bouquets
to thank them for all they did.

"It's high time that this was done because there is no doubt many of those who
were badly hurt only survived because of the bravery and quick-thinking of these
wonderful people," said Julie. * Tickets for the event are priced £12.50. They
are available from tomorrow from www.thsh.co.uk

* For general inquiries email concert@21-today.com

21 Today has been written by Dave Scott-Morgan and Phil Hatton.

THE LYRICS

Oh just a thought in my mind...

And I really don't know why it still gets me so

after all this long time

but there's Twenty one today

Twenty one yesterday, Twenty one tomorrow

The sky looks the same over Birmingham

as I stand inside the rain

thinking of faces I would know,

friends who would come and go

and laugh and joke and play

Oh and there's twenty one today

who never grow old

Now time has played a trick on me

- sent me back in history, and I'm there

I'm walking down that road again

Twenty something old again, not a care

With shadows dancing in the smoke

I push my hands down deep in my coat, it's freezing!

As I turned my collar to the biting wind

I thought I saw your face again, Am I dreaming?

And I hear the cry, and I feel the pain

And I'm living in that night of fear again

Just for a moment...

While shadows dance inside the smoke

I push my hands down in my coat

I turned my collar to the biting wind

And I thought I saw your face again,

But it was just for a moment...

And I hear the cry, and I feel the pain

And I'm living in that night of fear again

So many times I've tried to understand it

But I don't have the words to say

'cept there's Twenty one today,

Twenty one yesterday and Twenty one tomorrow.

THE MAIL SAYS The story of the Birmingham pub bombings remains an unclosed book
- not least because the authorities have yet to bring to justice the killers who
brought such bloodshed and horror to our city 40 years ago.

But there is another aspect, too, that remains to be dealt with.

For no-one has ever said thank-you properly to the emergency services and other
heroes who risked and endured so much on that terrible night.

That will be put right at the Town Hall anniversary concert.

The event will also give people the chance to remember the tragic victims and to
raise money for charity.

It is going to be a sad but uplifting night. CALL TO RELATIVES Julie Hambeton is
keen to make contact with relatives of others who died in the tragedy in order
to invite them as VIP guests. Those who died were:Jane Davis 17Michael Beasley
30Lynn Bennett 18Stanley Bodman 51James Caddick 40Thomas Chaytor 28James Craig
34Paul Davis 20Charles Gray 44Anne Hayes 19Maxine Hambleton 18John Jones 51Neil
Marsh 20Marylin Nash 22Pamela Palmer 19Desmond and Eugene ReillyMaureen Roberts
20John Rowland 46Trevor Thrupp 33Stephen Whalley 21If you are a relative or can
put 21 Today in touch with them, please email julie@21-today.com

LOAD-DATE: July 31, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBEM


                         Copyright 2014 Trinity Mirror
                              All Rights Reserved

                              310 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                dailypost.co.uk

                      July 31, 2014 Thursday 10:49 AM GMT

Llandudno: Attacking seagulls terrorise tourists and locals;
Sunny days and balmy nights by the seaside have turned into a nightmare for
visitors due to attacks from birds seeking their food

BYLINE: By northwales

LENGTH: 596 words


The level of aggression displayed by Llandudno's many seagulls is causing
concern for the seaside town.

The large birds have become known for their attacks on locals and tourists,
stealing their food and even causing injuries.

A member of staff from the Royal Society for the Protection of Birds (RSPB) said
he'd "never seen anything like it" when he visited Conwy Quay a couple of weeks
ago.

A journalist from the Daily Post's sister paper, the North Wales Weekly News,
witnessed an attack on a young mother and her toddler daughter as they crossed a
busy street in Llandudno last week, which left the little girl severely
traumatised.

Another mother explained how a visit to Conwy Quay with her sister and their
four children this week ended in heartbreak for her two-year-old son.

"The gulls absolutely petrified us," said.

"Our children got swarmed by them and they took the children's chips out of
their hands.

"There was loads of them and no one helped us, they were just staring and
laughing. My two-year-old is now petrified and screamed every time he saw one
afterwards."

Another reader took to Twitter to describe how a gull attacked her and did more
than just steal her food.

"[It] happened in Llandudno," she said.

"A seagull stole my food and left me with a bruised chest. I just never, ever
carry food in my hand and always go and sit in my car to eat now."

Nicole Jones from Llandudno now lives in Manchester and believes humans are the
main problem.

"There has always been a bit of a problem with seagulls in Llandudno," she said.
"They've always stolen food from people.

"I wouldn't say they are any worse than they have been in previous years, and
they've not suddenly become more aggressive or 'brave' in a single year.

"You always see tourists feeding them on the prom, that's a key problem. I know
there are signs, but that doesn't stop people."

The prime time for people being attacked is when the adults are protecting
chicks.

Nests, quite often next to warm chimneys, provide shelter and lead to humans
being dive-bombed by nervous parent gulls.

Denbighshire Council's solution was to 'spike' chimneys in the town centre, put
netting across open spaces and bring in the now defunct Coastal Hawks, who used
birds of prey to frighten off gulls from populated areas.

The problem improved, but after Denbighshire took away funding the brave gulls
returned, albeit on a lesser scale.

Birds of prey have been tried in Conwy county before and the authority has asked
the descendant of Coastal Hawks, Lords of the Wings, to visit Conwy and
Llandudno's North Shore with their birds.

"They [Conwy Council] emailed me last week," said director Kevin Bunn,
previously a director of Coastal Hawks.

"I will be there, weather permitting, and we will be doing regular patrols of
the town. We won't get paid but we can collect donations."

Conwy Council's environmental and housing enforcement manager, Nick Jones, said:
"If property owners are not happy with gulls nesting on their properties they
can take steps to proof their properties against future nest building.

"It is permissible to destroy a nest or take or destroy eggs where all other
avenues of control have been ruled out, but only in the interests of public
health or safety.

"Once eggs have hatched it would be illegal to kill the chick. We don't offer a
proofing or nest removal service, but private pest control firms do.

"There isn't a bylaw regarding the feeding of seagulls, although we do actively
discourage it."

What should be done about the seagulls? Have your say below, on our Facebook
page or tweet us @dailypostwales.

LOAD-DATE: July 31, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDPNM


                         Copyright 2014 Trinity Mirror
                              All Rights Reserved

                              311 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                               Independent.co.uk

                       August 1, 2014 Friday 9:33 PM GMT

Israel to increase Gaza offensive as Hamas ends truce with deadly attack;
'Terrorists will bear the consequences of actions,' says Netanyahu

BYLINE: Ben Lynfield

SECTION: FRONTPAGE

LENGTH: 518 words


Israel's security cabinet convened on Friday night amid expectations it will
escalate military steps in Gaza against Hamas in response to an attack in which
two soldiers were killed and a third was apparently captured in Rafah.

The capture is likely to mark a turning point in the more than three-weeks-old
conflict, convincing Israeli decision makers that Hamas is not interested in a
truce in the short term and that they should intensify military operations
against it.

According to the UN, the attack came in violation of the humanitarian ceasefire
that was supposed to be in effect on Friday morning. More than 50 Palestinians
were reported to have been killed in Israeli shelling during the incident.

"Hamas and other terrorist organisations in the Gaza Strip will bear the
consequences of their actions," Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu told
John Kerry, the US Secretary of State, in a telephone call on Friday.

Mr Netanyahu's spokesman, Mark Regev, declined to discuss whether Israel would
still dispatch representatives to talks in Cairo aimed at forging a long-term
ceasefire. But the mood in Israel was to focus on heightened military action
against Hamas.

In pictures: Israel-Gaza conflict

"You cannot talk and shoot at the same time. It doesn't work and Israel
shouldn't agree to that," said Yisrael Ziv, a former head of the Israeli army's
operations directorate.

Giora Eiland, Israel's former national security adviser, told The Independent
that Israel would "activate all its means in the Rafah area and won't stop in a
bid to reach the kidnapped soldier."

"This wasn't just a tactical incident that spoiled the ceasefire. It's a message
from the Hamas military leadership that they don't want a ceasefire. So there
won't be a ceasefire in the coming days. If there is no ceasefire, Israel has to
increase the pressure," he said.

Israel's leaders "have to assess whether to carry out deeper operations, for
example in Gaza City," he added. The aim would be to "get closer" to the Hamas
military leadership and to further degrade Hamas's rocket capability, he said.

READ MORE: Israeli soldier seized in ambushIsraeli soldier seized in ambushBrian
Eno: How can you justify images such as this?Peter Schwartz responds to Brian
Eno's open letter

The apparent capture raises the prospect for Israelis of years of bargaining
with Hamas to end in a lop-sided prisoner exchange. In 2006, Cpl Gilad Schalit
was captured by Hamas in a cross-border raid. Five years later, he was released
in exchange for 1,027 Palestinian prisoners, some of whom had been convicted of
multiple murders. In 2000, Israeli businessman and reserve colonel, Elhanan
Tanenbaum, was kidnapped and held for three years by Lebanon's Hezbollah
militia. Israel freed 435 prisoners in exchange for Mr Tanenbaum and the return
of three killed soldiers' corpses.

Far-right politicians have pressed for an all-out reoccupation of the Strip and
the removal of Hamas. But Mr Netanyahu has been wary of high fatalities among
soldiers, tensions with the international community and the prospect that
whatever comes after Hamas could be worse.

LOAD-DATE: August 2, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBI


           Copyright 2014 Independent Digital News and Media Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              312 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                              liverpoolecho.co.uk

                       August 1, 2014 Friday 12:17 AM GMT

In pictures: Reds lay 'You'll Never Walk Alone' wreath at Ground Zero in New
York;
Club pays respects to victims of 2001 terrorist attacks during pre-season tour

BYLINE: By James Pearce

SECTION: SPORT

LENGTH: 238 words


Brendan Rodgersplaced a special 'You'll Never Walk Alone' wreath at the 9/11
memorial site in New York.

The Liverpool boss was joined by Kenny Dalglish, Robbie Fowler, Ian Rush and
chief commercial officer Billy Hogan as they paid their respects to the victims
of the 2001 terrorist attacks.

"I would like to sincerely thank museum president Joe Daniels and retired New
York firefighter Tim Brown for taking time to show us around the memorial this
afternoon," said Rodgers.

"It was a great privilege to lead the Liverpool delegation to a site which
carries great significance, not just for America but the entire world.

Liverpool FC pay respects to victims of 9/11 terrorist attacks at Ground Zero in
New York

"I have visited Manhattan on a number of occasions, both privately and
professionally and it is, without doubt, one of the greatest places on the
planet, with a spirit and a character that is quite unique.

"When I found out New York was on our pre-season schedule I wanted us, as a
club, to come and pay our respects where the World Trade Center once stood and
hear some of the emotional, distressing, powerful but also inspiring accounts of
that fateful day.

"The stories told to us by firefighter Brown were profoundly moving and touched
every one of us. This visit will live in my memory for some time."

* Earlier in the tour a club delegation paid their respects to the victims of
the Boston bombings of April 15th last year

LOAD-DATE: August 1, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBLIV


                         Copyright 2014 Trinity Mirror
                              All Rights Reserved

                              313 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                  mirror.co.uk

                      August 2, 2014 Saturday 9:21 PM GMT

British drones kill hundreds of Taliban fighters in secret SAS attacks in
Afghanistan;
RAF Reapers have also helped to acquire vital information about Taliban and
al-Qaeda terrorists during secret SAS attacks

BYLINE: By Sean Rayment

SECTION: NEWS,WORLD NEWS

LENGTH: 540 words


British drones have killed ­hundreds of Taliban fighters in secret SAS attacks,
reveals the Sunday People.

RAF Reapers were used in more than 4,490 missions against some of the most
dangerous insurgent leaders in war-ravaged Afghanistan.

And the Sunday People has learnt the controversial aircraft have had a
­devastating impact on the Taliban's 13-year guerrilla campaign.

Some of the most spectacular ­successes against the rebels have come using
drones to support SAS raids.

Just last month more than 100 Taliban fighters were killed in one SAS operation
which used RAF Reapers to attack an insurgent stronghold.

And the aircraft have gathered vital intelligence about the movements of Taliban
and al-Qaeda terrorists.

After a Freedom of Information ­request by the Sunday People, the Ministry of
Defence admitted 474 bombs and missiles have been fired from RAF Reapers in
Afghanistan since 2008.

The MoD insisted the drones were only used against "legitimate ­military
objectives".

But they admitted four civilians died in a strike against two Taliban trucks
packed with explosives in 2011.

The 10 Reapers now in Afghanistan carry thermal-imaging cameras and can operate
day or night in any weather.

They are piloted by a two-man RAF crew who control them remotely from a British
airbase using satellite links.

Since 2008 the Reapers have been armed with smart weapons like Hellfire
anti-tank missiles and 500lb bombs.

They can fly unseen and unheard for 18 hours a day at altitudes of 30,000ft,
transmitting real-time video of suspects to their controllers.

The information is then passed on to the SAS to plan air and ground attacks.

Defence sources claim the missions have killed hundreds of senior and
middle-ranking Taliban commanders. And although the use of drones worries many,
the MoD insist they have saved the lives of thousands of British and coalition
troops.

RAF Reapers were used three weeks ago to prevent the Taliban taking the key town
of Sangin in Helmand.

Drones pummelled rebel strongholds with bombs and missiles while SAS teams moved
in on foot.

Hundreds of British troops have been killed and injured in Sangin since it was
first occupied by the coalition in 2006.

The town was handed over to the Afghan government last year and has since been
regularly attacked by the Taliban.

More than 100 Afghan police and soldiers died in a Taliban raid in July. And a
battle between 800 insurgents and a force of SAS and Afghans raged for a week,
leaving at least 150 Taliban dead and the town still in Afghan control.

Meanwhile, the United Nations Assistance Mission in Afghanistan ­revealed 45
civilians were killed by drones in 2013 - a third of all air-strike deaths
during the year.

Across the border in Pakistan, ­coalition drone strikes against Taliban
insurgents based there are said to have killed up to 900 civilians.

Chris Cole, head of campaign group Drone Wars UK, said: "Just over 80% of all
air-strikes in the last three years were from drones.

"That is a massive change - and we need to know why that is happening."

He added: "Armed drones will simply mean more warfare because they make it too
easy to choose so-called 'risk-free' lethal force rather than engage in
long-term sustainable solutions.

Do you back the use of drones?

LOAD-DATE: September 6, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDMI


                      Copyright 2014 Trinity Mirror, Plc.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              314 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                    BBC Monitoring Asia Pacific - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                             August 3, 2014 Sunday

China authorities confirm 37 killed in 28 July Xinjiang "terror" attack

LENGTH: 448 words


Text of report in English by official Chinese news agency Xinhua (New China News
Agency)

Urumqi, 3 August: A total of 37 civilians were killed and another 13 injured in
a terrorist attack Monday [in Shache County, Kashgar Prefecture, northwest
China's Xinjiang Uygur Autonomous Region, authorities said Sunday [3 August].

Police gunned down 59 terrorists and arrested 215 others, the regional
government said after a meeting Saturday presided by Zhang Chunxian, secretary
of the regional committee of the Communist Party of China.

The case was first reported Tuesday, but no figures were given except that
dozens of people died.

Among the dead were 35 Hans and two Uygurs, the government said.

Out of the 31 vehicles smashed in the violent attack, 6 were burnt.

Police confiscated long knives, axes as well as the terrorists' banners that
hailed "holy war."

A gang armed with knives and axes attacked a police station and government
offices in Elixku Township early Monday morning, and some moved on to the nearby
Huangdi Township, attacking civilians and smashing vehicles as they passed.

The gangsters also set roadblocks on the Bachu-Shache Road and stopped vehicles
passing by, before slashing passengers indiscriminately and forcing civilians to
join them in the terror attack, according to police.

Investigations showed that it was an attack jointly "organized and premeditated"
by terrorists both in and outside China, the government said.

The mastermind behind the attack was identified as Nuramat Sawut from Elixku
Township, who had close connections with the terrorist organization East
Turkestan Islamic Movement (ETIM).

Sawut had been spreading separatism and religious extremism with audio and video
materials since 2013. Through this process he developed a terrorist group and
became its leader.

Since the beginning of the Islamic holy month of Ramadan, the group had had
multiple gatherings in remote places, during which they made attack plans and
prepared tools for their violent acts.

Zhang Chunxian said that the terrorists will be punished in accordance with law,
and that anyone committing crimes must be brought to justice.

On Friday, police shot dead nine suspected terrorists and captured another in
Hotan Prefecture, two days after extremists murdered the imam of China's largest
mosque, Jume Tahir, in Xinjiang.

Shache witnessed another terror attack on December 30, 2013 when nine
knife-wielding terrorists attacked a police station. They threw explosives and
set police cars on fire. Police shot dead eight terrorists.

On May 22, an attack on a market in Urumqi, the regional capital, left 31 dead
and 94 injured.

Source: Xinhua news agency, Beijing, in English 1959gmt 02 Aug 14

LOAD-DATE: August 3, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2014 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              315 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                    BBC Monitoring Asia Pacific - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                             August 3, 2014 Sunday

96 killed in "terror" attacks in China's Xinjiang in late July - official report

LENGTH: 273 words


Text of report in English by Japan's largest news agency Kyodo

Beijing, 3 August: Ninety-six people were killed in what Chinese authorities
called a "premeditated terror attack" in China's far western region of Xinjiang
in late July, according to a Xinjiang official report.

The official Xinjiang website Tianshan Net said 35 Han Chinese and two ethnic
Uyghur residents were killed and 13 people were injured, putting the death toll
among the "mobs" at 59.

The casualty figures were reported at a meeting of Xinjiang regional officials
on Saturday, the report said.

According to the official Xinhua News Agency, the clashes first occurred in
Elixku, a township in Kashgar Prefecture, in the early hours of July 28.

A gang armed with knives attacked a police station and government offices in
Elixku and some of them moved on to the nearby Huangdi Township, attacking
civilians and smashing vehicles as they passed, Xinhua said.

Over 30 cars were vandalized, some of which were set on fire, the report said.

Authorities in Xinjiang have detained 215 people for investigation, Tianshan Net
said.

The attacks came about three weeks after the fifth anniversary of rioting in
2009 that left 197 people dead and about 1,700 injured, mostly Han Chinese.

While Chinese authorities routinely blame "separatists" and "terrorists" for the
outbreak of ethnic violence in Xinjiang, critics say the underlying cause is
China's high-handed policy toward ethnic minorities.

Uyghurs have long complained that racial discrimination and restrictions on
religion are fueling anger at the Han Chinese majority.

Source: Kyodo News Service, Tokyo, in English 0753gmt 03 Aug 14

LOAD-DATE: August 3, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2014 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              316 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring Middle East - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                             August 3, 2014 Sunday

Hezbollah expresses support for Lebanese army in face of "terrorist attacks"

LENGTH: 286 words


Text of report in English by Lebanese National News Agency website

Hezbollah expressed full support to the Lebanese army's steps in the face of the
terrorist attacks it is being subjected to, saying that "we stand
shoulder-to-shoulder with our military institution in confronting the threats
against our country's unity, sovereignty and stability."

"The continuation of crimes committed by organized terrorist groups, covered
externally and justified internally, are proof enough of the threats and dangers
surrounding Lebanon and all its people," indicated Hezbollah in a statement
Sunday, commenting on the attacks against the Lebanese army and security forces
in the region of Ersal.

The Party's statement called for "joining efforts together by all the Lebanese
to ward-off such dangers, and abstain from coming-up with justifications or
excuses for these terrorist groups that have committed atrocities unaccepted by
any mind or religion."

"The Army's relentless efforts to meet its duties and responsibilities in
protecting the country, fortifying its borders and preventing terrorists from
violating its sovereignty, and losing its finest young men as martyrs to achieve
such duties, is evident of the purity of the military institution and its
dedication to its homeland," Hezbollah's statement added, praising the Army's
sacrifices in its quest for citizens' safety and tranquillity.

In conclusion, Hezbollah expressed sincerest condolences to the Army Command and
officers for the fallen martyrs who have lost their lives in fighting for their
country's protection, while wishing a speedy recovery for all wounded soldiers.

Source: Lebanese National News Agency website, Beirut, in English 1705 gmt 3 Aug
14

LOAD-DATE: August 3, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2014 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              317 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                          China Daily European Edition

                             August 3, 2014 Sunday

37 civilians killed, 13 injured in Xinjiang terror attack

SECTION: SOCIETY

LENGTH: 422 words


URUMQI - A total of 37 civilians were killed and another 13 injured in a
terrorist attack Monday in Shache County, Kashgar Prefecture, northwest China's
Xinjiang Uygur Autonomous Region, authorities said Sunday.

Police gunned down 59 terrorists and arrested 215 others, the regional
government said after a meeting Saturday presided by Zhang Chunxian, secretary
of the regional committee of the Communist Party of China.

The case was first reported Tuesday, but no figures were given except that
dozens of people died.

Among the dead were 35 Hans and two Uygurs, the government said.

Out of the 31 vehicles smashed in the violent attack, 6 were burnt.

Police confiscated long knives, axes as well as the terrorists' banners that
hailed "holy war."

A gang armed with knives and axes attacked a police station and government
offices in Elixku Township early Monday morning, and some moved on to the nearby
Huangdi Township, attacking civilians and smashing vehicles as they passed.

The gangsters also set roadblocks on the Bachu-Shache Road and stopped vehicles
passing by, before slashing passengers indiscriminately and forcing civilians to
join them in the terror attack, according to police.

Investigations showed that it was an attack jointly "organized and premeditated"
by terrorists both in and outside China, the government said.

The mastermind behind the attack was identified as Nuramat Sawut from Elixku
Township, who had close connections with the terrorist organization East
Turkestan Islamic Movement (ETIM).

Sawut had been spreading separatism and religious extremism with audio and video
materials since 2013. Through this process he developed a terrorist group and
became its leader.

Since the beginning of the Islamic holy month of Ramadan, the group had had
multiple gatherings in remote places, during which they made attack plans and
prepared tools for their violent acts.

Zhang Chunxian said that the terrorists will be punished in accordance with law,
and that anyone committing crimes must be brought to justice.

On Friday, police shot dead nine suspected terrorists and captured another in
Hotan Prefecture, two days after extremists murdered the imam of China's largest
mosque, Jume Tahir, in Xinjiang.

Shache witnessed another terror attack on December 30, 2013 when nine
knife-wielding terrorists attacked a police station. They threw explosives and
set police cars on fire. Police shot dead eight terrorists.

On May 22, an attack on a market in Urumqi, the regional capital, left 31 dead
and 94 injured.

LOAD-DATE: August 3, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2014 China Daily Information Co
                              All Rights Reserved

                              318 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                 BBC Monitoring Former Soviet Union - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                             August 4, 2014 Monday

Russia's Lavrov offers condolences over China "terrorist attack"

LENGTH: 414 words


Text of report in English by the Russian Ministry of Foreign Affairs website on
1 August: "Introductory speech by the Russian Foreign Minister, Sergey Lavrov,
before his meeting with the Minister of Foreign Affairs of China, Wang Yi,
Dushanbe, 31 July 2014 1825-31-07-2014"

We are glad to meet you on the side-lines of the Council of Foreign Ministers of
the Shanghai Cooperation Organization.

Such contacts within the framework of any international forums, in which we
participate, have become a good tradition, in addition to our regular exchange
of visits. This reflects the special nature of Russian-Chinese relations of
strategic interaction and multifaceted partnership and is necessary in order to
implement the agreements which are reached between Russian and Chinese leaders.

The May (2014) Russian-Chinese summit in Shanghai ended with the adoption of new
large and breakthrough agreements in a range of areas. New contacts between the
President of the Russian Federation, Vladimir Putin, and the President of the
People's Republic of China, Xi Jinping, are expected, including here, in
Dushanbe, this September on the side-lines of the SCO summit, and then in
Beijing during the APEC summit. We are convinced that you and I and our
colleagues and employees will be able to prepare these important events.

Once again, I wish to extend our sincere condolences about the casualties of the
terrorist attack yesterday in China. This reinforces our joint commitment to
multiply our efforts in fighting this evil, using bilateral channels and within
the SCO.

Mr Minister, I also express my gratitude to the Chinese leaders and people for
the proposed humanitarian aid for the refugees from the Donetsk and Lugansk
Regions, who are now in the Russian Federation. This friendly gesture will allow
us to undertake additional steps to attract attention of the international
community to the humanitarian tragedy in the South-East of Ukraine. We have made
an initiative to urgently organize an international humanitarian mission to
assist peaceful civilians in the Donetsk and Lugansk Regions. We want to use the
opportunities of the UN, OSCE, the International Committee of the Red Cross, the
international Organization for Migration and expect to receive support for this
humanitarian initiative from our Chinese friends.

Thank you once again for our meeting. We will discuss all the aspects of our
interaction.

Source: Ministry of Foreign Affairs website, Moscow, in English 1 Aug 14

LOAD-DATE: August 4, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2014 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              319 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                            BBC Monitoring Kiev Unit
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                             August 4, 2014 Monday

Ukrainian prosecutors say Kharkiv blast to be investigated as terrorist attack

LENGTH: 174 words


Text of report by Interfax-Ukraine news agency

Kiev, 4 August: Prosecutors in Kharkiv Region are guiding the process of the
criminal investigation into the explosion in the Kharkiv regional military
commissariat [conscription office].

The press service of the regional prosecutor's office said an unknown object had
exploded on the third floor of the military commissariat in the early hours of
Monday [4 August], at about 0230 [2330 gmt on 3 August].

"Nobody was hurt as a result of the blast but the building was damaged.
According to preliminary information, the military commissariat was fired at
from a small rocket-propelled flame-thrower," the press service said.

The investigation into the blast was launched under Art. 258 of the Criminal
Code of Ukraine (act of terrorism).

The investigation is being carried out by the regional SBU [Security Service of
Ukraine]. A group to guide the process was appointed from among the officers of
the regional prosecutor's office.

Source: Interfax-Ukraine news agency, Kiev, in Russian 0515 gmt 4 Aug 14

LOAD-DATE: August 4, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2014 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              320 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                 Express Online

                       August 4, 2014 Monday 7:08 PM GMT

TERROR ATTACK: A cyber security expert warns of passenger plane danger

BYLINE: David Snelling

LENGTH: 362 words


A TOP cyber security expert says a computer flaw could allow terrorists to cause
chaos in our skies

Packed planes could be hacked by terrorists[ GETTY]

Aircraft security could see radical changes after a major secruity flaw has been
discovered.

In a frightening development a senior computer expert has warned it's possible
to hack a passenger jet.

Ruben Santamarta says he has dicovered a way of accessing onboard computers
while aircraft are in flight. Using the plane's entertainment system and wi-fi
network, he believes many of the aircraft's vital instruments including
navigation and communication can easily be disrupted.

Although this hasn't yet been confirmed, if he's right, it could spark a major
overhaul of aircraft security.

Santamarta will explain his findings in more detail at this week's Black Hat
hacking conference in Las Vegas. And his presentation is likely to talk about
vulnerabilities in satellite communications systems used in aircraft.

Ruben Santamarta says he can access onboard computers whilst aircraft are in
flight [REUTERS]

The 32-year-old consultant with cyber security firm IOActive told Reuters:
"These devices are wide open. The goal of this talk is to help change that
situation."

"In theory, a hacker could use a plane's onboard wi-fi signal or inflight
entertainment system to hack into its avionics equipment, potentially disrupting
or modifying satellite communications, which could interfere with the aircraft's
navigation and safety systems."

His discussion is expected to attract thousands of computer experts who will be
attending the conference.

While some think Santamarta revelations only pose a small risk it is being
taking seriously.

Vincenzo Iozzo, a member of Black Hat's review board, said: "I am not sure we
can actually launch an attack from the passenger inflight entertainment system
into the cockpit.

"The core point is the type of vulnerabilities Santamarta discovered are pretty
scary just because they involve very basic security things that vendors should
already be aware of."

The Black Hat hacking event starts on August 6 and is aimed at improving the
world's cyber security, which is under constant threat from criminals.

LOAD-DATE: August 4, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDE


              Copyright 2014 Northern and Shell Media Publications
                              All Rights Reserved

                              321 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                  M2 PressWIRE

                             August 4, 2014 Monday

Terrorist Attack on the Lebanese Armed Forces and Internal Security Forces

LENGTH: 159 words


August 2, 2014

Jen Psaki

Department Spokesperson Washington, DC

The United States strongly condemns the al Nusra Front's attack today on the
Lebanese Armed Forces (LAF) in Arsal, where reportedly at least seven soldiers
were killed and some Internal Security Forces (ISF) members were briefly held
hostage. We extend our deepest sympathy and condolences to the victims' families
and wish a full recovery to those who were wounded.



As the violence spills over to Syria's neighbors, including from violent
extremists, we urge all parties in Lebanon to respect the Lebanese government's
policy of dissociation from regional conflicts, as stated in the Baabda
Declaration.

The United States is committed to Lebanon's security, stability, sovereignty,
and territorial integrity. We will continue our strong support for Lebanon's
state institutions, including the LAF and the ISF, as they work to preserve and
protect a stable, sovereign, and secure Lebanon.

LOAD-DATE: August 4, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newswire

JOURNAL-CODE: M2PW


                      Copyright 2014 Normans Media Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              322 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                   MailOnline

                       August 4, 2014 Monday 6:33 PM GMT

'Terrorist' caught attacking Jerusalem bus with a digger before being shot dead
by police hours before Israeli soldier is shot at nearby university

BYLINE: JILL REILLY

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 481 words



     ·    No passengers on the bus, in ultra-Orthodox Jewish neighbourhood
     ·    Police shot the driver dead and said he's a Palestinian from East
          Jerusalem
     ·    Excavator's mechanical arm seen tearing into the side of the bus
     ·    M otorcyclist shot and wounded a man on another Jerusalem street
     ·    S pokesman for Hamas: 'We praise the heroic and brave operations'


A 'terrorist' Palestinian used a digger to mow down and kill an Israeli before
overturning a bus on a main Jerusalem street today, Israeli police said.

There were no passengers on the bus, in an ultra-Orthodox Jewish neighbourhood
of the city.

Surveillance video broadcast on Israeli television showed the yellow excavator's
mechanical arm tearing into the side of the bus as it lay on the pavement.

Police shot the driver dead and later announced he was a Palestinian from East
Jerusalem - they described the incident as a terrorist attack.

Scroll down for video

Later, a motorcyclist shot and wounded a man on another Jerusalem street, the
Magen David Adom ambulance service said.

There were no immediate claims of responsibility for Monday's attacks in the
city.

But a spokesman for Hamas, the dominant group in the Gaza Strip, said: 'We
praise the heroic and brave operations in Jerusalem, which come as a natural
reaction to the crimes and massacres by the Occupation against our people in
Gaza.'

Tensions have been high in Jerusalem for the past month over the Gaza war and
the killing of a Palestinian teen in the city by alleged Israeli assailants out
to avenge the deaths of three abducted Israeli youngsters in the occupied West
Bank.

Yossi Farienti, Jerusalem district police chief, said the excavator 'hit a
Jewish citizen at a construction site and then drove about 50 metres (yards)
down the road, where it overturned the bus with its arm, slightly injuring three
people'.

A police spokesman said police officers shot at the driver, killing him.

TV footage showed the man's body hanging out of the excavator's cabin.

Internal Security Minister Yitzhak Aharonovitch said the nearly four-week-old
Gaza war had also raised fears of attacks in Israeli cities.

'From the moment fighting started in the south, we realised such an incident of
a lone attacker can happen and such tractor attacks are familiar in Jerusalem,'
Aharonovitch said on Channel 2 television.

'(The driver's) whole family is being interrogated. We want to know who sent
him, if he was acting alone, whether he belonged to a network - all those things
are being checked,' he said.

In two incidents in July 2008, construction vehicles driven by Palestinians hit
Israeli buses and pedestrians, killing a total of three people. In both
incidents, the attackers were shot dead.

Three years later, an Arab truck driver drove into cars and pedestrians in Tel
Aviv, killing one person, in what police said was a deliberate attack.

The driver was apprehended and sentenced to life imprisonment.

LOAD-DATE: August 4, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDM


                   Copyright 2014 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              323 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                   MailOnline

                       August 4, 2014 Monday 3:19 PM GMT

'Terrorist' caught attacking Jerusalem bus with a digger before being shot dead
by police hours before Israeli soldier is shot at nearby university

BYLINE: JILL REILLY

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 427 words



     ·    No passengers on the bus, in ultra-Orthodox Jewish neighbourhood
     ·    Police shot the driver dead and said he's a Palestinian from East
          Jerusalem
     ·    Excavator's mechanical arm seen tearing into the side of the bus
     ·    M otorcyclist shot and wounded a man on another Jerusalem street


A 'terrorist' Palestinian used a digger to mow down and kill an Israeli before
overturning a bus on a main Jerusalem street today, Israeli police said.

There were no passengers on the bus, in an ultra-Orthodox Jewish neighbourhood
of the city.

Surveillance video broadcast on Israeli television showed the yellow excavator's
mechanical arm tearing into the side of the bus as it lay on the pavement.

Police shot the driver dead and later announced he was a Palestinian from East
Jerusalem - they described the incident as a terrorist attack.

Scroll down for video

Later, a motorcyclist shot and wounded a man on another Jerusalem street, the
Magen David Adom ambulance service said.

The circumstances of the incident were not immediately clear.

Tensions have been high in Jerusalem for the past month over the Gaza war and
the killing of a Palestinian teen in the city by alleged Israeli assailants out
to avenge the deaths of three abducted Israeli youngsters in the occupied West
Bank.

Yossi Farienti, Jerusalem district police chief, said the excavator 'hit a
Jewish citizen at a construction site and then drove about 50 metres (yards)
down the road, where it overturned the bus with its arm, slightly injuring three
people'.

A police spokesman said police officers shot at the driver, killing him.

TV footage showed the man's body hanging out of the excavator's cabin.

Internal Security Minister Yitzhak Aharonovitch said the nearly four-week-old
Gaza war had also raised fears of attacks in Israeli cities.

'From the moment fighting started in the south, we realised such an incident of
a lone attacker can happen and such tractor attacks are familiar in Jerusalem,'
Aharonovitch said on Channel 2 television.

'(The driver's) whole family is being interrogated. We want to know who sent
him, if he was acting alone, whether he belonged to a network - all those things
are being checked,' he said.

In two incidents in July 2008, construction vehicles driven by Palestinians hit
Israeli buses and pedestrians, killing a total of three people. In both
incidents, the attackers were shot dead.

Three years later, an Arab truck driver drove into cars and pedestrians in Tel
Aviv, killing one person, in what police said was a deliberate attack.

The driver was apprehended and sentenced to life imprisonment.

LOAD-DATE: August 4, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDM


                   Copyright 2014 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              324 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                    Sky News

                       August 4, 2014 Monday 02:56 PM GMT

Digger Topples Bus In Israel 'Terror Attack'

SECTION: TOP STORIES

LENGTH: 353 words



HIGHLIGHT: At least two people have been killed after a digger was driven into a
bus in Jerusalem in what Israel described as a "terrorist attack".


  A 25-year-old pedestrian reportedly died after being run down by the
construction vehicle before the driver was shot dead by police.

There were no passengers on the bus, but its driver was among three people
injured.

Yossi Farienti, Jerusalem district police chief, said the digger "hit a Jewish
citizen at a construction site and then drove about 50 metres down the road,
where it overturned the bus with its arm, slightly injuring three people".

Video showed the arm of the mechanical arm tearing into the side of the bus.

Police said the digger driver was a Palestinian from East Jerusalem.

The country's security minister, Yitzhak Aharonovitch, said the attacker's
"whole family" was being interrogated to establish whether or not he was acting
alone.

Tensions have been high in Jerusalem, which both Israel and the Palestinians see
as key to any future separate states, since Israel began bombarding ther Gaza
Strip and a Palestinian teen was allegedly murdered by  Israelis to avenge the
deaths of three abducted Israelis in the West Bank.

"From the moment fighting started in the south, we realised such an incident of
a lone attacker can happen and such tractor attacks are familiar in Jerusalem,"
Mr Aharonovitch said on Channel 2 television.

"We want to know who sent him, if he was acting alone, whether he belonged to a
network - all those things are being checked."

In 2008, three people were killed in two separate incidents when construction
vehicles driven by Palestinians hit Israeli buses and pedestrians.

Three years later, an Arab truck driver drove into cars and pedestrians in Tel
Aviv, killing one person.

The latest killing came as Israel was accused of breaking a partial seven-hour
humanitarian truce it had called in Gaza.

Palestinian medics said an eight-year-old girl died and 30 other people were
wounded in an attack on a house in the Shati refugee camp in Gaza City.

PHOTO:

Link to Image

VIDEO:

Two Dead in Digger 'Terror Attack'

At least two people have been killed after a digger was driven into a bus in
Jerusalem in what Israel described as a "terrorist attack".

Link to Video

LOAD-DATE: August 4, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication


                              Copyright 2014 BSkyB
                              All Rights Reserved

                              325 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring Middle East - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                             August 5, 2014 Tuesday

Syrian Foreign Ministry condemns "terrorist attacks" against Lebanese Army

LENGTH: 322 words


Text of report by R. Milhem/Ghossoun published in English by state-run Syrian
news agency SANA website

Damascus, SANA -Foreign and Expatriates Ministry condemned Monday [4 August] the
planned attacks launched against the Lebanese Army by members of the terrorist
groups of "the Islamic State in Iraq and al-Sham" and "Al-Nusra Front" with the
aim of destabilizing the brotherly country of Lebanon.

A source at the ministry said in a statement that the attacks launched by
terrorists against civilians and military checkpoints and posts in the Lebanese
town of Arsal and its surroundings require providing support to the Lebanese
Army and standing by it in its battle against the extremist Takfiri terrorism.

The source added that the Syrian Arab Republic stresses its support and
solidarity with the Lebanese Army in confronting the armed terrorist groups and
eliminating them, expressing conviction that the brotherly country of Lebanon
will triumph in this battle and thwart what is hatched to destabilize the
situation there.

The source pointed out that Syria had repetitively warned of the foreign-backed
terrorism, which does not know borders or identities, considering that it would
extend to the region and its vicinity has not it been confronted and has not got
its springs dried up, stressing "this could be done through obliging the
countries known for supporting these armed terrorist groups to stop funding,
arming, training and lodging them in implementation of relevant UN Security
Council resolutions."

"The Syrian Arab Republic, which considers that confronting terrorism that is
launched against Syria, Iraq and Lebanon is a defence of the security and
stability of the region, stresses its resumption to eradicate the terrorist
groups with no hesitance armed with the consensus of the Syrian people and their
support to the Armed Forces," it concluded.

Source: SANA news agency website, Damascus, in English 1615 gmt 4 Aug 14

LOAD-DATE: August 5, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2014 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              326 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring Middle East - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                             August 5, 2014 Tuesday

Iran expresses sympathy with Lebanon over "terrorists" attacks

LENGTH: 141 words


Foreign Ministry Spokeswoman Marziyeh Afkham has expressed Iran's sympathy with
Lebanese government and nation over the recent attacks by "terrorist groups"
around the eastern border town of Arsal, Iranian Students News Agency (ISNA)
reported on 5 August.

According to ISNA, Afkham stressed Iran's support for stability and peace in
Lebanon. She expressed hope that Lebanon would be able to overcome the current
situation through solidarity among all political currents and national unity.

Talking about the "danger of takfiri [pejorative term used to describe extremist
Islamists who brand other Muslims non-believers ] groups against peace and
stability in the region", she said: "Fighting the evil phenomena of terrorism
and its supporters requires joint international and regional efforts."

Source: ISNA website, Tehran, in Persian 1505 gmt 5 Aug 14

LOAD-DATE: August 5, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2014 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              327 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                            i-Independent Print Ltd

                                 August 5, 2014
                                 First Edition

'Terrorist attack' on home of fracking worker;
Energy

BYLINE: Tom Bawden ENVIRONMENT EDITOR

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 385 words


Britain's fracking industry has suffered its first suspected "terrorist" attack
after the home of a shale gas worker in Northern Ireland was petrol-bombed.

Two bombs were hurled at a security guard's house in what represents a
stepping-up of hostilities in the campaign against the fracking firm Tamboran
Resources. Staff were threatened at a quarry in Belcoo, Co Fermanagh, where the
company is planning to drill in shale exploration.

The attack on the house, on the outskirts of nearby Enniskillen, was widely
condemned yesterday.

"This was an orchestrated and abhorrent attack on a local family. We condemn
this latest attack, that follows a number of unlawful incidents at our Belcoo
site, and threats that have been made to security staff," a spokesman for
Tamboran said. The company remained determined to pursue shale gas in Northern
Ireland, he added.

The security guard who was targeted worked for Samdec Security, which is
protecting a site where Tamboran is preparing to conduct tests to establish the
viability of producing shale gas in the area. The family was unharmed in the
attack.

Tamboran has ruled out fracking on the site where the tests will be conducted.
But site preparations have met with widespread opposition because of the
company's aim to exploit shale gas elsewhere in Northern Ireland.

"There is a lot of anger, concern and fear here about fracking. But there is no
doubt this action will have put back our campaign," said Donal O'Cofaigh for the
anti-fracking group Belcoo Frack Free. "This attack is wrong and we condemn it.
Such actions only undermine our goal of putting a halt to shale-gas
exploration."

Tom Elliott, an Ulster Unionist Stormont assembly member, said: "While many
people have concerns about the proposals to carry out fracking in Fermanagh, it
does not justify terrorist-type campaigns."

Michelle Gildernew, Sinn Fein's MP for Fermanagh, said: "While the vast majority
of people in Fermanagh and further afield oppose fracking, this is not the way
to express that opposition."

Police are looking for the driver of a dark-coloured Audi estate car that was
seen in the area at 3.25am on Sunday.

The controversial practice of fracking releases shale gas by blasting a mixture
of sand, water and chemicals into the rock. It has been linked to earth tremors
and water pollution.

LOAD-DATE: August 4, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: III


                    Copyright 2014 Independent Print Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              328 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                               Independent.co.uk

                      August 5, 2014 Tuesday 11:41 PM GMT

Afghanistan base shooting: US 'major general' killed and 15 soldiers wounded by
insider attack on British-run 'Sandhurst in the sand';
German brigadier-general also wounded in the attack by a 'terrorist in army
uniform'

BYLINE: Adam Withnall

SECTION: FRONTPAGE

LENGTH: 384 words


A US major general has reportedly been killed and 15 other people have been
wounded after a man dressed in an Afghan army uniform opened fire with a machine
gun at the British-run army base known as "Sandhurst in the sand".

The victims of the attack included both local and Nato forces, a spokesperson
for Afghanistan's defence ministry said, while the German military said those
injured included one of its brigadier generals.

The incident occurred at Camp Qargha, a British military training academy
located outside the Afghan capital Kabul.

US officials confirmed that one American had been killed and that "about a
dozen" of the wounded were also from the US, but declined to comment further.
However US media reports said he was Major General Harold Greene, a senior
officer with the international military command ISAF.

US military officials said he was the most senior American official killed in
action overseas since the Vietnam war.

Afghan military spokesperson General Mohammad Zahir Azimi described the shooter
as a "terrorist in an army uniform", who was killed when soldiers returned fire.
He said that three Afghan army officers were among those wounded.

Camp Qargha is known as "Sandhurst in the sand" because it was built and its
training regime designed on the example of the famous Berkshire academy for
officers.

It first took on cadets last October, the BBC reported, and will be the only
British military presence remaining in Afghanistan when operations end this
year.

Commenting on the attack today, the MoD issued a statement saying it was
investigating the incident but that it would be "inappropriate to comment
further at this time".

Nato has also launched an investigation, while the Afghan President Hamid Karzai
condemned the shooting as "cowardly".

In a statement, Karzai said it was "an act by the enemies who don't want to see
Afghanistan have strong institutions."

The shooting comes after a series of protests against the civilian casualties of
ongoing Nato operations in Afghanistan. On Tuesday, a Nato helicopter strike
targeting missile-launching Taliban militants killed four civilians in the west
of the country.

The UN reported in July that the number of civilians killed in Afghanistan had
risen 17 per cent in the first half of this year compared to the same period in
2013.

LOAD-DATE: August 6, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBI


           Copyright 2014 Independent Digital News and Media Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              329 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                            The Independent (London)

                             August 5, 2014 Tuesday
                                 First Edition

Petrol bombers hunted for 'terrorist' attack on home of shale-gas site guard

BYLINE: TOM BAWDEN ENVIRONMENT EDITOR

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 440 words


Britain's fracking industry has suffered its first suspected "terrorist" attack,
after the home of a shale-gas worker in Northern Ireland was petrol-bombed.

Two bombs were hurled at a security guard's house in what represents a
stepping-up of hostilities in the campaign against the fracking firm Tamboran
Resources. Staff were threatened at a quarry in Belcoo, Co Fermanagh, where the
company is planning to drill in shale exploration.

The attack on the house, on the outskirts of nearby Enniskillen, was widely
condemned yesterday, with politicians united in their concern.

"This was an orchestrated and abhorrent attack on a local family. We condemn
this latest attack, that follows a number of unlawful incidents at our Belcoo
site, and threats that have been made to security staff," a spokesman for
Tamboran said.

He said the company remained determined to pursue shale gas in Northern Ireland
and that the attack had made no difference to its plans. The family was unharmed
in the attack.

The security guard who was targeted worked for Samdec Security, which is
protecting a site where Tamboran is preparing to conduct tests to establish the
viability of producing shale gas in the area.

Shale gas is produced using the controversial practice of fracking, which
releases the gas by blasting a mixture of sand, water and chemicals into the
rock. It has been linked to earth tremors and water pollution.

Tamboran has ruled out fracking on the site where the tests will be conducted.
However, the site preparations have met with widespread opposition because of
the company's aim to exploit shale gas elsewhere in Northern Ireland.

"There is a lot of anger, concern and fear here about fracking. But there is no
doubt this action will have put back our campaign," said Donal O'Cofaigh for the
anti-fracking group Belcoo Frack Free.

"This attack is wrong and we condemn it. Such actions only undermine our goal of
putting a halt to shale-gas exploration. We ask those responsible to desist
immediately. This action is not in our name."

Tom Elliott, an Ulster Unionist Stormont assembly member, said: "While many
people, including myself, have concerns about the proposals to carry out
fracking in Fermanagh, it does not justify terrorist-type campaigns."

Michelle Gildernew, Sinn Fein's MP for Fermanagh, said someone could have been
seriously injured and she "unreservedly" condemned the attack. "While the vast
majority of people in Fermanagh and further afield oppose fracking, this is not
the way to express that opposition," she said.

Police are looking for the driver of a dark-coloured Audi estate that was seen
in the area at 3.25am on Sunday.

LOAD-DATE: August 4, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: IA


                      Copyright 2014 Independent Print Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                              330 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                 thetimes.co.uk

                      August 5, 2014 Tuesday 12:01 AM GMT

Kenya terror attacks make Nairobi as dangerous as Kabul

BYLINE: Jerome Starkey, Nairobi

SECTION: AFRICA

LENGTH: 610 words


For decades, Nairobi was the diplomat's dream posting: wicker chairs and wide
verandahs perfect for sipping gin and tonics while legions of domestic staff
hovered in attandance.

Drivers and nannies would ferry children to leafy private schools, while
weekends were spent gazing at wild animals in luxury safari lodges. However, the
African dream has come to an end for Canada's mandarins after they put Nairobi
in the same category as Kabul and Baghdad by changing it from a family posting
to an unaccompanied mission.

Spouses, children and dependents have been instructed to leave, along with some
"non-essential staff," according to an official familiar with the ruling, which
diplomats said was part of a shift in attitudes towards poor security in East
Africa's largest economy.

"We take the safety and security of our employees at missions and their families
very seriously," said Ian Trites, a spokesman for Canada's ministry of foreign
affairs. He confirmed that the embassy in Nairobi was one of their largest, but
refused to comment on "operational matters at missions abroad".

US Marines were posted on the roof of the American embassy in June amid fears of
a terrorist attack, while Washington moved dozens of staff from the United
States Agency for International Development's regional hub to neighbouring
countries.

The Peace Corps said it was withdrawing volunteers from Kenya "after monitoring
the security environment". Australia followed suit by closing its volunteers for
international development programme in the interests of "safety and security".

Britain announced that it would reduce the visa section at its High Commission
from 48 staff to seven, just days after it changed its travel advice on Kenya to
warn nationals against visiting large swathes of the coast because of the "high
threat from terrorism".

France has also changed its travel advice, while a Russian and a German woman
were shot dead in separate armed robberies at a tourist attraction in the port
city of Mombasa. Further north, closer to the border with Somalia, almost 100
people were killed in night raids, which President Kenyatta blamed on land
disputes, but local police accused the Somali-based militants of al-Shabaab of
the killings.

A western official familiar with Canada's decision said the government was
particularly sensitive about security because they lost two nationals including
a diplomat in the Westgate shopping centre attack, which left at least 68 people
dead at the end of a four-day siege in September last year.

One of the dead Canadian nationals was Annemarie Desloges, 29, who worked as an
immigration officer, and lived in Nairobi with her husband Robert Munk, who was
wounded in the attack, when Islamist militants stormed the upmarket mall. The
other dead Canadian was Naguib Damji, a businessman from the Vancouver area.

President Kenyatta, who is in Washington for an Africa summit, accused the west
of trying to sabotage Kenya's economy when Britain, France, America and
Australia all changed their travel advice earlier this year.

Richard Branson, the founder of the Virgin empire, said that they were
effectively "travel bans," which crippled the country's tourism industry as it
struggled to recover from the Westgate attack, and a fire at Nairobi's
international airport last year. The number of visitors to the coast has
plummeted almost 50 per cent, according to the region's largest hotelier.

"The advisories are obviously unfriendly acts coming from our partners, who have
equally borne the brunt of global terrorism and no doubt understand the
repercussions of the terror menace," the foreign ministry said in a statement.

LOAD-DATE: August 5, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBTTO


                     Copyright 2014 News International Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                              331 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                        BBC Monitoring Central Asia Unit
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                            August 6, 2014 Wednesday

Uzbekistan: Shanghai group condemns "terror attack" in China's Xinjiang

LENGTH: 123 words


Excerpt from report by Uzbek news website 12news.uz on 6 August

Tashkent, 6 August: The Executive Committee of the Shanghai Cooperation
Organization's Regional Anti-Terrorism Structure (SCO's RATS) has strongly
condemned an act of terrorism that occurred in [China's] Xinjiang Uighur
Autonomous Region on 28 July.

[Passage omitted: about 100 people, including 59 attackers, died in the attack,
and 215 people were arrested]

"The Executive Committee of the SCO's RATS strongly condemns the violent actions
by terrorists against civilians and members of the authorities. It expresses
condolence to the victims of the terror attack, their kith and kin," a statement
of the SCO's RATS says.

Source: 12news.uz, Tashkent, in Russian 0259 gmt 6 Aug 14

LOAD-DATE: August 6, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2014 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              332 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                   MailOnline

                      August 6, 2014 Wednesday 9:36 AM GMT

Chinese city bans anyone with Islamic clothing or a 'big beard' from boarding
buses after terror attacks across the country

BYLINE: TED THORNHILL and REUTERS

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 484 words



     ·    Five types of passenger will be banned from buses in the city of
          Karamay
     ·    Those wearing veils, head scarves and jilbabs to be prevented from
          boarding
     ·    Anyone wearing clothes bearing crescent moon and star also banned
     ·    Passengers with 'big beards' cannot travel on buses either, state
          media said
     ·    Karamay is in Xinjiang province, riven with violence blamed on Muslims


A city in China's restive western region of Xinjiang has banned people with head
scarves, veils and long beards from boarding buses, as the government battles
unrest with a policy that critics said discriminates against Muslims.

Xinjiang, home to the Muslim Uighur people who speak a Turkic language, has been
beset for years by violence that the government blames on Islamist militants or
separatists.

Authorities will prohibit five types of passengers - those who wear veils, head
scarves, a loose-fitting garment called a jilbab, clothing with the crescent
moon and star, and those with long beards - from boarding buses in the
northwestern city of Karamay, state media said.

Scroll down for video

The crescent moon and star symbol of Islam features on many national flags,
besides being used by groups China says want to set up an independent state
called East Turkestan.

The rules were intended to help strengthen security through August 20 during an
athletics event and would be enforced by security teams, the ruling Communist
Party-run Karamay Daily said on Monday.

'Those who do not comply, especially those five types of passengers, will be
reported to the police,' the paper said.

In July, authorities in Xinjiang's capital Urumqi banned bus passengers from
carrying items ranging from cigarette lighters to yogurt and water, in a bid to
prevent violent attacks.

Exiled Uighur groups and human rights activists say the government's repressive
policies in Xinjiang, including controls on Islam, have provoked unrest, a claim
Beijing denies.

'Officials in Karamay city are endorsing an openly racist and discriminatory
policy aimed at ordinary Uighur people,' Alim Seytoff, the president of the
Washington-based Uyghur American Association, said in an emailed statement.

While many Uighur women dress in much the same casual style as those elsewhere
in China, some have begun to wear the full veil, a garment more common in
Pakistan or Afghanistan than in Xinjiang.

Police have offered money for tips on everything from 'violent terrorism
training' to individuals who grow long beards.

Hundreds have died in unrest in Xinjiang in the past 18 months, but tight
security makes it almost impossible for journalists to make independent
assessments of the violence.

About 100 people were killed when knife-wielding attackers staged assaults in
two towns in the region's south in late July, state media said, including 59
'terrorists' shot dead by police. A suicide bombing killed 39 people at a market
in Urumqi in May.

LOAD-DATE: August 6, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDM


                   Copyright 2014 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              333 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                  mirror.co.uk

                     August 6, 2014 Wednesday 11:15 PM GMT

'Muslim extremist who warned of terror attack on Kate and William's wedding
worked on Tube';
Afsor Ali, 27, kept a cache of Al Qaeda documents and promoted extremism on
YouTube, a court heard

BYLINE: By Ryan Wilkinson

SECTION: NEWS,UK NEWS

LENGTH: 292 words


A Muslim extremist who warned of a terror attack at Prince William's wedding
worked "in security" on the London Underground, he told a court today.

Afsor Ali, 27, is accused of having a stash of al-Qaeda documents, bomb manuals
and extremist material.

Prosecutors told the Old Bailey Ali took tutorials on Jihad with hate preacher
Omar Bakri Muhammad and was spokesman for the banned Muslims Against Crusades.

Ali denied speaking to Bakri about committing terror acts, but said he had
sought "clarification" on faith issues.

Prosecutor Oliver Glasgow said Ali promoted extremism in YouTube videos under
the alias Abu Assadullah.

He said in a clip from 2011, Ali "warns the viewer not to attend the Royal
Wedding since there's the risk of an attack".

The Old Bailey heard how counter terrorism investigators found a library of
extremist material and MP3 players belonging to Ali.

An Al Qaeda magazine Inspire and a terrorist manual called 39 Ways to Serve and
Participate in Jihad were said to have been found on his gadgets.

But Ali denied knowing how the material ended up on his own devices as they were
shared by like-minded young Muslims who came to his house for meetings.


When asked about two laptops, a Toshiba and Lenovo, he said: "If I'm in a
conference and anybody there, if they want to use my laptop, they can use it.


"There's a range of people there, but family have their own... sometimes there
would be younger people there, they would say can I use your laptop."


A hard drive of material was also seized, although he also said he shared its
use so did not know who could have uploaded the material to it.

Ali, of Whitechapel, East London, denies four counts of possessing terrorist
documents. The trial continues.

LOAD-DATE: September 6, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDMI


                      Copyright 2014 Trinity Mirror, Plc.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              334 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                               The Sun (England)

                            August 6, 2014 Wednesday
                                   Edition 1;
                                    Ireland

Bouncer in anti-frack fire terror;
THUGS' GUARD ATTACK

BYLINE: JASON JOHNSON

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 24

LENGTH: 211 words


MILITANT anti-fracking protesters are key suspects for a double petrol bomb
attack at the home of a security guard.

Two devices were lobbed at the man's house in Letterbreen, Co Fermanagh, early
on Sunday.

Fracking firm Tamboran, which is exploring the county's natural gas reserves,
said he worked for them.

No-one was injured in the 3.30am attack and the property was not thought to be
badly damaged.

Tensions have been high in the area after test drilling began at a site in
Belcoo last week.

Surveys have found large reserves of shale gas in the Fermanagh and Leitrim
areas, but protesters claim the controversial 'fracking' extraction process
scars and pollutes the land.

Yesterday the PSNI met with senior Tamboran staff to discuss security. It is
believed several verbal threats to workers have already been reported to cops.
Local UUP MLA Tom Elliott stormed: "While many people, including myself, have
concerns about the proposals to carry out fracking in Fermanagh it does not
justify terrorist-type campaigns against the process and those involved in it."

Donal O'Cofaigh of antifracking campaigners, Belcoo Frack Free, said: "This
attack is wrong and we condemn it. We ask those responsible to desist
immediately. This action is not in our name."

@IRISHSUNONLINE

LOAD-DATE: August 6, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Outrage ... Elliott

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: SUN


                    Copyright 2014 NEWS GROUP NEWSPAPERS LTD
                              All Rights Reserved

                              335 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                             Paisley Daily Express

                            August 7, 2014 Thursday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

Attack terror

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 81 words


A thug admitted robbing and battering a man with a belt in a frightening street
attack.

John McDermott, 23, pleaded guilty at Paisley Sheriff Court to chasing and
attacking Paul Dunn only yards away in Wallace Street.

The yob, of Fullarton Street, Shortroods, and a pal launched the brutal beating
before swiping the victim's bag. Sheriff Tom McCartney told the lout he would
decline to hear a narration of the facts and sentence him when he returns to
court for final disposal on August 22.

LOAD-DATE: August 7, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: PDE


                           Copyright 2014 MGN Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              336 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                    BBC Monitoring Asia Pacific - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                             August 8, 2014 Friday

State-run China Central TV reveals footage of recent terror attack in Xinjiang

LENGTH: 363 words


Text of report in English by official Chinese news agency Xinhua (New China News
Agency)

Beijing, 8 Aug: China Central Television (CCTV) on Thursday [7 Aug] evening
broadcast the video of a terror attack in Shache County, Xinjiang Uygur
Autonomous Region, which left 37 civilians dead and another 13 injured in late
July.

The footage showed two vehicles set on fire in a local town. It also showed a
driver risking his life to bring a baby girl to safety while several vehicles
stood in danger of getting caught in the flames.

A gang armed with knives and axes attacked a police station and government
offices in Elixku Township in the early hours of 28 July, and some moved on to
the nearby Huangdi Township, attacking civilians and smashing vehicles as they
passed.

Seyit, Communist Party chief of a village in Elixku, along with 11 village
cadres and militiamen, encountered the mobs when the office of the village
committee was under attack.

Stored in the office were 13 spears and helmets as well as stab-resistant
clothing, Seyit was quoted by the CCTV as saying. "The consequences would have
been disastrous if we had not taken hold of the office and allowed the mobs to
seize these weapons."

Seyit led the group to the roof to call the police while organizing a group to
fend off the mob.

One man in nearby Huangdi Township did his best to dissuade the mob, helping
protect more than 140 households in the village, according to the CCTV.

"I was about to make a cake when two cars stopped in front of my gate. Several
people with masks and clubs rushed in and asked me to go with them (to attack
others)," the local farmer said in the TV report.

"I said we have no weapons with us and told them to come back later after I
asked my two grandsons to get weapon ready," he said. "Then they left."

The old men then immediately notified his family and villagers to hide
themselves.

The attack happened on 28 July in Shache County of Kashgar in northwest China's
Xinjiang. Police shot 59 terrorists dead and arrested 215 others during the
armed confrontation.

Out of the 31 vehicles smashed in the violent attack, 6 were burned.

Source: Xinhua news agency, Beijing, in English 0000gmt 08 Aug 14

LOAD-DATE: August 8, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2014 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              337 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring Middle East - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                             August 8, 2014 Friday

Egypt condemns terrorist attack in Nigeria - agency

LENGTH: 101 words


Text of report by Egyptian state-run news agency MENA

Cairo, 8 August: Egypt has strongly condemned the recent terrorist attack in
Nigeria.

Islamist insurgents from Boko Haram stormed a village in north-eastern Nigeria,
killing at least 50 people earlier Friday [8 August].

In a statement, the Foreign Ministry voiced solidarity with the Nigerian people
and government against such terrorist acts.

It also called for intensified regional and international efforts to face this
"abhorrent phenomenon" that jeopardizes stability and hinders development.

Source: MENA news agency, Cairo, in English 1406gmt 08 Aug 14

LOAD-DATE: August 8, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2014 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              338 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                   MailOnline

                       August 8, 2014 Friday 7:23 PM GMT

London Underground security worker who warned of terror attack during William
and Kate's wedding guilty of possessing library of terror manuals

BYLINE: GEMMA MULLIN

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 712 words



     ·    Asfor Ali, 27, kept a stash of al-Qaeda documents and bomb-making
          plans
     ·    Articles and extremist lectures were found on his computer and MP3
          player
     ·    He also made YouTube video rants under the alias of Abu Assadullah
     ·    In one video he warned of a terrorist attack at the Royal Wedding in
          2011
     ·    He was convicted of three counts of possessing terrorist material at
          trial
     ·    Sentencing will take place on August 12 following the three-day court
          case


A London Underground security worker who warned of a terror attack during the
Duke and Duchess of Cambridge's wedding has been found guilty of possessing a
library of terror manuals.

Afsor Ali kept a stash of al-Qaeda documents, bomb-making plans and extremist
lectures on his computer and bragged that the 9/11 attacks were a blessing.

The 27-year-old also made YouTube video rants where he warned of a terrorist
attack at the Royal wedding and called for a Burn American Flag Day in another.

After a three-day trial at the Old Bailey, Ali was convicted of three counts of
possessing terrorist material and will be sentenced next week.

Dressed in a cream Islamic robe and white skull cap bearded Ali looked skywards
and appeared to offer a prayer.

Ali was the spokesman of banned extremist group Muslims Against Crusades and was
personally counselled by militant cleric Omar Bakri.

He denied speaking to Bakri about committing terror acts, but said he had sought
'clarification' on faith issues.

But prosecutor Oliver Glasgow said Ali promoted extremism in YouTube videos
under the alias Abu Assadullah.

In a clip from 2011, he 'warns the viewer not to attend the Royal Wedding since
there's the risk of an attack,' Mr Glasgow added.

'He explains to the viewer that the British public have no one to blame except
themselves because of the inability to condemn their government.

'He describes the 9/11 atrocity as a blessing and an eye-opener for the American
people.'

The Old Bailey heard how counter terrorism investigators found a library of
extremist material and MP3 players belonging to Ali.

A special edition of Al Qaeda magazine Inspire to celebrate the 'martyrdom' of
Osama Bin Laden was also found on his gadgets.

When asked about two laptops, a Toshiba and Lenovo, he said: 'If I'm in a
conference and anybody there, if they want to use my laptop, they can use it.

'There's a range of people there, but family have their own... sometimes there
would be younger people there, they would say can I use your laptop.'

A hard drive of material was also seized, although Ali said he shared its use so
did not know who could have uploaded the material to it.

Ali was investigated after he was arrested outside the American embassy in
London on December 2, 2011, while leading a violent protest against drone
strikes in Pakistan.

Police suspect the group of 30 masked men protesting under the name United Ummah
and led by Ali were also members of Muslims Against Crusades.

After a violent altercation with police Ali was arrested and the MP3 player in
his pocket was found to contain the Inspire magazine.

He was granted bail but attempted to flee the country but was stopped at St
Pancras International on March 24 trying to board a Eurostar train to Paris with
a passport belonging to someone else.

His computers were then seized from his home and found to contain a raft of
extremist material, including bomb making tips and guides to using AK47s.

There were also recording of Ali on the phone with Bakri saying it would be
'sinful' to not go abroad and fight.

Mr Glasgow said: 'This defendant and a colleague were seeking advice on the duty
of Muslim males to participate in Jihad, and they discussed the requirement of
Muslims to travel abroad to fight for Jihad.'

Ali, of Whitechapel, East London, was convicted of three counts of possessing
information likely to be useful to a terrorist, but cleared of one. He will be
sentenced on August 12.

Before the trial Ali pleaded guilty to one count of possessing an identity
document with improper intention.

After the conviction the breach of bail was put to Ali and he was asked if
admitted failing to attend court without due cause.

However, Ali replied: 'I believe I had a good cause and that is because I feel I
won't get a fair trial.'

He will be tried separately for breaching his bail conditions.

LOAD-DATE: August 8, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDM


                   Copyright 2014 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              339 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring Middle East - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                             August 10, 2014 Sunday

Iran condemns "terrorist attack" on military forces in Yemen

LENGTH: 67 words


Iran's Foreign Ministry Spokeswoman, Marzieh Afkham, has condemned the
"terrorist attack" on the Yemeni military forces deployed in the south of Yemen,
the Iranian Labour News Agency reported on 10 August.

According to the report, Afkham offered her condolences to "the government of
Yemen and the families of the victims."

Source: Iranian Labour News Agency (ILNA), Tehran, in Persian 0729 gmt 10 Aug 14

LOAD-DATE: August 10, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2014 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              340 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                              Eastwood Advertiser

                             August 10, 2014 Sunday

Terror of road rage attack

LENGTH: 191  words


A car chased another vehicle in a terrifying road rage incident on the sliproad
of the M1 at Nuthall.

At arounf 3.30 pm on Thursday August 7, the victim contacted the police to say
someone had damaged their car.

The caller was driving northbound  in a yellow car and  changed into the outside
lane. But a white car was driving at speed behind.

The driver of the second vehicle was beeping the horn, flashing the lights and
shouting from the car.

It then followed the yellow vehicle and blocked the victim in, staying in front
until both cars stopped on the sliproad.

The driver of the white car then tried to get to the driver of the yellow car by
trying to pull down the driver side window.

After being unsuccessful with this the offender has then kicked the driver side
car door causing a dent.

The offender was described as being white, approximately 40 years of age and 6ft
in height. The male was of a medium build with a bald head.

He was said to be wearing a black t-shirt, black trouser bottoms and black
boots.

If you saw or heard anything suspicious in the area between the time then please
call 101 giving the incident number of 607-07082014.

LOAD-DATE: August 10, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: NEAA


                       Copyright 2014 Johnston Press Plc
                              All Rights Reserved

                              341 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                                   The People

                                August 10, 2014
                                   Edition 1;
                                    Ireland

ISIS attack mountain refugees TERROR: [...]

SECTION: NEWS; FRONT PAGE; TEASERS; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 12 words


ISIS attack mountain refugees TERROR: Yazidi family yesterday See pages 12&13

LOAD-DATE: August 10, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: PPL


                           Copyright 2014 MGN Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              342 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                                   The People

                                August 10, 2014
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

Terror on the mountain as ISIS attacks;
But PM rules out RAF strikes British planes fly out with urgent aid Obama:
Advance is faster than we thought Jihadists closing in on the trapped 40,000

BYLINE: Keir Mudie

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 12,13

LENGTH: 859 words


DESPERATE families trapped on a mountain were running out of food and water last
night as bloodthirsty jihadists closed in on them in Iraq.

Forty thousand members of the Yazidi religion were under attack from heavily
armed fighters of the Islamic State who have cornered them on Mount Sinjar.

One group of 300 families trapped in their homes were ordered to convert to
Islam today or face execution.

But 5,000 people were on their way to freedom in Turkey last night after Kurdish
fighters opened up a safe passage for them.

America has stepped into the humanitarian crisis, launching air strikes and food
drops.

British aid is on its way.

In a dramatic telephone call yesterday, one Yazidi said: "Half an hour ago we
were attacked but we resisted them and they left.

"They cut off our only source of water. We do not have water now, we only have
bread and the bread will be gone by the morning."

The defenceless members of one of the world's oldest religions have sought
refuge on the barren mountainside after fleeing their homes.

In scorching temperatures, they scrabbled for food and shelter among the bare
rocks. Scores have reportedly already succumbed to starvation, dehydration and
the effects of heat.

Yazidi leaders begged the United States to launch more air strikes.

Leaders of Islamic State (IS) - formerly ISIS - delivered their convert or die
ultimatum after surrounding the villages of Koja, Hatiminya and Qaboshi in
northern Iraq. They launched a campaign to create a hardline Islamic caliphate
spanning the borders of Syria and Iraq earlier this year.

Thousands of people from religious minorities, including Christians, have been
killed by beheadings, crucifixions and executions.

Up to 250,000 people could be on the run from the Islamists. Fears were growing
last night for 500 women said to have been kidnapped by the Islamist thugs in
Iraq.

One Yazidi refugee, Barakat al-Issa, said: "The situation is tragic. Thousands
of people are trapped in need of water and food."

Vian Dakhil, the sole Yazidi MP in the Iraqi Parliament, said: "We are being
slaughtered. An entire religion is being exterminated. In the name of humanity,
save us.

Rapid

"The Shias, Sunnis, Christians, Turkmen and Shabak people have been killed and
now the Yazidi people are being killed."

US President Barack Obama admitted the advance of IS was "more rapid than
expected".

American jets carried out three attacks on IS positions on Friday, dropping
500lb bombs, and one aid drop took place yesterday.

But Mr Obama ruled out sending ground troops. Terrorist targets were identified
by drones flying high above. A covert US special forces team is also in place to
talk pilots to their targets.

Prime Minister David Cameron and Mr Obama discussed the growing crisis in a
phone call yesterday.

A No10 spokesman said: "The Prime Minister welcomed the US efforts and made
clear we are keen to work with America on the humanitarian effort."

But there was no sign of Mr Cameron ordering the RAF to mount air attacks. At a
meeting of Britain's emergency Cobra committee, Foreign Secretary Philip Hammond
drew up plans to help the trapped Yazidis.

Britain will airlift clean water, reusable filtration containers and solar
equipment for lighting and recharging mobiles.

No10 said: "Air drops remains our immediate priority.

"A way must be found to get these people to safety and to avert a genocide."

President Obama insisted Iraq must play its part. He said: "We're not going to
let them create some caliphate through Syria and Iraq.

"But we can only do that if we know that we have got partners on the ground who
are capable of filling the void."

American airstrikes took out a number of IS artillery positions on Friday and in
the early hours of yesterday.

President Obama said he was "confident" the US could help get the Yazidi off the
mountain.

Other international leaders pledged support, including France and Germany.

Mr Hammond said he was deeply concerned by the "extraordinary cruelty" shown by
Islamic State in areas it has taken control of in the north of Iraq.

He added it was for a new Iraqi government to lead the fight against them and
the new caliphate.

Mr Hammond said: "We are waiting for a new Iraqi government to be formed which
will then have to take the lead in responding to the challenge that IS is posing
to the integrity of the Iraqi state.

"At the moment our focus is on supporting the humanitarian effort and waiting to
see as a new government is formed, whether it will be an inclusive government we
can get behind and support."

Around £3million from Britain will go to charities and NGOs already on the
ground and helping displaced people and £2.5million will go to the International
Committee of the Red Cross.

A further £500,000 will be used to improve communication between the UN and
other allied groups in the area.

In the air drops, three planes delivered more than 70 supply packages for the
refugees.

They contained 28,000 meals and more than 6,800 litres of water.

Islamic State currently holds 17 towns. On Wednesday it seized control of
Qaraqosh, Iraq's largest Christian town.

The 50,000 residents have been given the choice to convert or die.

feedback@people.co.uk

LOAD-DATE: August 10, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: MIRACLE ESCAPE Yazidis trapped in mountains freed yesterday by Kurdish
troops
RESPONSE: David Cameron, and Obama yesterday
RELIEF: Aid is loaded at RAF Brize Norton
STRIKE: American attack on IS artillery unit
ANY MEANS NECESSARY: Refugees flee in the scoop of a digger
DESPERATE: Yazidis crowd round aid helicopter yesterday

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: PPL


                           Copyright 2014 MGN Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              343 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                               Belfast Telegraph

                             August 11, 2014 Monday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

Report praises PSNI success in thwarting terrorist attacks

BYLINE: AMANDA FERGUSON

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 495 words


A NEW report by the British government-appointed Independent Reviewer of
Terrorism says the Police Service of Northern Ireland averted significant
attacks during 2013.

According to David Anderson QC, the severe threat level last year would have
been "substantially greater" without the efforts of the police.

In the report published on policing website Police Oracle, Mr Anderson indicated
the "stagnant and polarised political environment" is hampering counter terror
efforts.

He also said the PSNI averted significant attacks and stressed the courage of
officers "should not be underestimated". He wrote: "Violent republican activity,
though well down on 1997-2002, continued at levels broadly comparable to those
experienced since devolution in 2007.

"Dissident republicans were responsible for the bulk of the 73 bombings and 48
shootings during 2013. Pipe bombs, mortars and under-vehicle IEDs were all used
- targets for attack included officers, police stations, churches, community
centres and private houses."

Mr Anderson also highlighted concerns regarding the Ulster Defence Association
(UDA) and Ulster Volunteer Force (UVF) gaining greater prominence. He pointed
out that the "financial and physical" cost of policing parades and marches had
continued to rise and was also critical of the political environment here.

"The stagnant and polarised political environment in Northern Ireland seems
ill-adapted to curing the underlying resentments, as illustrated in 2013 by the
failure of the multi-party process led by Dr Richard Haass to even agree a
procedural solution to the contentious issue of flags, parades and the past.

"It is necessary to conclude that the terrorist threat in Northern Ireland,
though much diminished, remains real and ever present and that it would have
been substantially greater without the efforts of the PSNI and some laws
designed specifically for use against terrorism."

Last night, Terry Spence, chairman of the Police Federation for Northern
Ireland, told the Belfast Telegraph the report was a "heartening assessment"
that pays tribute to the work of rank-and-file officers and he also urged
Stormont to protect and increase police budgets.

"Policing in Northern Ireland is not like policing in any other region of the
United Kingdom or Western Europe, and I know the men and women who do remarkable
work in the face of a severe terrorist threat on them and their families, both
on and off duty, will take great heart from Mr Anderson's comments," he said.

background David Anderson was appointed by the Home Secretary to report to
Westminster on the operation of counter-terrorism law in the UK.

He is independent of government and his findings are sent to cabinet ministers.

He said: "I have seen for myself how officers of the PSNI must live, both on and
off duty, under the scrutiny of those who could turn into their killers.

"Their courage, and their service to the peaceful citizens of Northern Ireland,
should not be underestimated."

LOAD-DATE: August 11, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: BTT


                Copyright 2014 Belfast Telegraph Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              344 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                          China Daily European Edition

                             August 11, 2014 Monday

18 suspects in terror attack surrender

BYLINE: Cui Jia in Urumqi

SECTION: CENTER

LENGTH: 556 words


Eighteen people suspected of taking part in last month's terrorist attack in the
Xinjiang Uygur autonomous region have turned themselves in to police.

The attack on July 28 in Shache county, Kashgar prefecture, left 37 civilians
dead and another 13 injured. Police shot dead 59 terrorists and arrested 215
others.

On Aug 1, the Shache government urged suspects who escaped to surrender in
exchange for lighter sentences. In addition, members of the public were asked to
provide information about the terrorists.

By 6 pm on Saturday, 18 people had turned themselves in, Xinjiang Daily
reported. Most said they had been incited or forced to join the terrorist group
by existing members, according to Abudulkeyoum Abdulkadear, head of the legal
affairs brigade at the Shache public security bureau.

Suspect Yusoup Aili said he was attending morning prayers at a local mosque on
July 28 when a group of people ran inside and called on worshippers to join
their "holy war".

He ran back to his house to fetch an ax and followed the mobs that attacked
people and destroyed property.

Yusoup said he did not think about what he was doing at the time but now
understands the tragic consequences of his actions.

"During the past few days I kept thinking about how the victims must have
suffered when they were attacked and the sadness their families have to bear,"
he said.

"I decided to go to the police because I couldn't live with the guilt anymore."

Another suspect, Ausman Seyit, said the terrorists forced him to take part but
he now realized he should have run away instead of attacking civilians. He hid
in cornfields and the Gobi desert after fleeing the crime scene.

"Fear of being caught by the police is what drove me to surrender," said Ausman.
"But my biggest fear is how I tell my mother what I have done."

Nuramet Sawut was the head of the terrorist group behind the attack, police
said. He was formerly an imam at a village mosque, but in 2008 villagers forced
him to step down after accusing him of being disrespectful toward them.

Nuramet, who had close connections with the East Turkestan Islamic Movement
terrorist organization, was shot dead by police, Xinjiang Daily reported. His
three brothers also took part in the attack.

Nuramet started promoting separatism and religious extremism through audio and
video materials last year and went on to establish the group and became its
leader, local police said.

The group held meetings in remote areas, during which they planned the attack
and gathered weapons.

On the day of the attack, group members armed with knives and axes struck at a
police station and government offices in Elixku township before moving on to
nearby Huangdi township. They attacked civilians and smashed vehicles as they
went.

The mobs set up roadblocks on the Bachu-Shache road, stopping vehicles and
slashing passengers indiscriminately and forcing some to join them in the
attack, according to police.

A 3-year-old girl became an orphan when her parents were killed by Nuramet's
group.

The family's car was stopped by the mobs, and the little girl survived only
because her mother hid her in the trunk. She was later rescued by another
driver, Roz Tohut.

"The girl cried when I took her out of the trunk and said she was so scared
because masked men beat her mother," said Roz.

cuijia@chinadaily.com.cn

LOAD-DATE: August 11, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2014 China Daily Information Co
                              All Rights Reserved

                              345 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                       August 11, 2014 Monday 9:31 PM GMT

Letter shows how Islamic State's barbarity was too much even for al-Qaeda;
A 21-page letter found during the raid on Osama Bin Laden's villa reveals that
al-Qaeda's lieutenants felt terrorist group's attacks on Christians went too far

BYLINE: By Alastair Beach

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 366 words


Its legions of cut-throat jihadis have blazed a trail of brutality across the
Middle East - yet a trove of letters found at the home of terrorist mastermind
Osama Bin Laden reveal that even al-Qaeda had misgivings about the brutal
tactics of the Islamic State's fighters.

When US special forces raided Bin Laden's bolthole villa in Pakistan and
assassinated the terrorist mastermind, they discovered a collection of
correspondence detailing the ideological debates taking place between his top
lieutenants.

Among them was a 21-page document which revealed the misgivings of Bin Laden's
acolytes towards the murder being committed in his name by the organisation
which would eventually become the Islamic State.

The letter, penned in January 2011 by American al-Qaeda member Adam Gadahn,
expressed doubts over the policy of indiscriminate slaughter - particularly the
bombings targeting the Catholic Church and killing of Christians.

"The attacks on the Christians in Iraq...does not help us to convey the
message," he wrote, addressing Bin Laden as the "virtuous Shaykh" and referring
to the September 11th attacks as the "Manhattan battle".

He added that Christians "will not grasp in general the targeting of their
public, women, children and men in their church during Mass".

Gadahn was referring to the conduct of the Islamic State of Iraq, an al-Qaeda
affiliate which was the forebear of the Islamic State.

The internal anguish revealed in the letters appeared to have been of great
significance. The Islamic State's barbarity eventually reached such macabre
proportions that in February this year al-Qaeda released a statement disowning
the group, saying it had "not been informed of its creation" and that al-Qaeda
leaders had ordered its former protégés to "stop working".

Although the letters captured in the raid express misgivings about the tactics
of Middle Eastern jihadis, some of the caution appears to be rooted in dubious
sentiment.

"The Catholics were historically the prominent enemies of the Jews," argues
Gadahn, presenting his logic for ceasing the slaughter of some Christians. "They
were also the original enemies to the Evangelist Protestant who were the
vanguard of the Crusades."

LOAD-DATE: August 12, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTNS


                  Copyright 2014 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              346 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring South Asia - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                            August 12, 2014 Tuesday

Afghan paper condemns terror attacks, killing of civilians

LENGTH: 566 words


Text of editorial in Dari headlined "Women and children were the victims once
again" published by Afghan independent secular daily newspaper Hasht-e Sobh on
11 August

Yesterday's terrorist attack once again claimed women and child victims. Wounded
individuals of the incident were also street grocers and mostly the victims of
terrorists activities of the Taleban are civilians. The UN, official
organizations and impartial media outlets' reports show that civilians are the
victims of the Taleban terrorist activities. The Taleban and terrorist groups'
targets sacrifice people. The Taleban as a warrior group have no other plan
except war, terror and shedding blood.

The Afghan people do not expect them [Taleban] to stop war and terrorist
activities, but their expectation is from the government and security officials.
People expect the security, reconnaissance and intelligence forces of the county
to discover the Taleban's terrorist bases in cities. People want the security
forces to remove the Taleban underground support networks in populated cities,
particularly in Kabul. Without cooperation of a secret support network, a
suicide attacker cannot fill a vehicle with explosives and detonate it beside
international forces convoys. In addition, being aware about the travelling time
of international forces is also not possible without the presence of a secret
supporting network.

It is clear that the Taleban have influence among the security forces' ranks as
well. The Afghan people expect the National Directorate of Security [NDS] to
identify and destroy the secret Taleban support networks in the big cities of
the country. The NDS should also make the public aware of those individuals who
are detained on charges of cooperating with terrorists and supporting or
providing them with facilities. Those who provide residence for the terrorists
and lead them are the criminals as much as the terrorists are. The murderers of
the two kids who were killed yesterday are not only the suicide attackers but
also those individuals who provided residence and helped them in carrying out
the attack.

All those who have provided secret support networks for the Taleban should be
detained and tried. The country's judicial power has shown indifference in this
regard. Indifference and corruption in the judicial bodies of the country are
such that even some police officers have given orders to open fire on the
Taleban detainees; the reason being that the police officers and security
servicemen do not trust the country's judicial body. The NDS occasionally and in
an ordered manner reports about the detention of terrorists and their
supporters, but we have never witnessed the trials of those individuals who are
involved in terrorist attacks or support the terrorists, which is a
disappointing issue.

President Karzai also did not stop the policy of releasing the Taleban inmates
and he even defended that on Id day; a policy which did not have any other
benefit except from depriving the victims of terrorist attacks of justice. The
national unity government, which is going to be formed in second week of Sunbola
[September], should bring considerable changes in judicial power and bring the
required political punishment to terrorists and their supporters. A policy of
releasing criminals to participate in terrorist activities has no advantage.

Source: Hasht-e Sobh, Kabul, in Dari 11 Aug 14

LOAD-DATE: August 12, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2014 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              347 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                            BBC Monitoring Kiev Unit
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                            August 12, 2014 Tuesday

Ukrainian police say foiled terrorist attack in eastern city

LENGTH: 279 words


Text of report by Interfax-Ukraine news agency

Kiev, 12 August: A large-scale terrorist attack has been thwarted in Donetsk
Region, Zoryan Shkiryak, aide to the Ukrainian interior minister, has said.

"Officers of the Druzhkivka city police directorate, headed by Artem
Kryshchenko, together with special-purpose units of the counterintelligence
department, the Ukrainian Interior Ministry's main directorate for fighting
organized crime and a group of bomb-disposal experts of the Ukrainian Interior
Ministry's main directorate in Donetsk Region have prevented a possible
large-scale terrorist attack. Today a separatists' Daewoo Nubira car full of
explosives and automatic weapons was detected and defused at a parking lot near
a petrol station on the outskirts of Druzhkivka," Shkiryak told the
Interfax-Ukraine news agency over the phone from the antiterrorist operation
area.

In particular, a Kalashnikov machine-gun 7.62 mm (one piece), a removable barrel
(one piece), grenades (10 pieces), grenades for underbarrel grenade-launcher (80
pieces), ammunition of 5.45 calibre (2160 pieces), machine-gun belts (two pieces
with 250 cartridges each), cartridges for automatic rifle of 7.62 calibre (660
pieces), cartridges fro machine-gun 7.62 (340 pieces) and 29.2 kg of explosive
materials (TNT) were seized.

The accompanying documents pointing to an affiliation with Russia were found as
well.

"To be clear, having such amount of explosives, one can blow up a railway
bridge, several multi-storey buildings or any administrative or government
building, markets or entertainment centres," Shkiryak explained.

Source: Interfax-Ukraine news agency, Kiev, in Russian 1429 gmt 12 Aug 14

LOAD-DATE: August 13, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2014 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              348 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                 Express Online

                      August 12, 2014 Tuesday 7:46 PM GMT

Jail for extremist who threatened terror attack at Prince William and Kate's
wedding

BYLINE: Sharon Marris

LENGTH: 645 words


AN Islamic extremist who threatened a terror attack against the Duke and Duchess
of Cambridge's wedding, has been jailed for terrorism offences.

Afsor Ali during appearing in a YouTube video in which he warned of a terror
attack [PA]

Afsor Ali, 27, who posted a YouTube video warning of a terror attack on the 2011
wedding, was personally counselled by radical cleric Omar Bakri, dubbed the
Tottenham Ayatollah.

He claimed the 9/11 attacks were a "blessing" and kept a copy of the Al Qaeda
magazine Inspire with a guide on how to make bombs and fire an AK-47.

Ali, who worked in security on the London Underground, tried to flee the country
while awaiting trial but was stopped by an eagle-eyed French customs official at
St Pancras International station trying to board a Eurostar train to Paris using
a stolen passport.

Sentencing Ali, Judge Charles Wide QC said: "During the trial you tried to give
the jury impression that although you were radical you weren't an extremist and
didn't support terrorism.

"It is absolutely plain you are an extremist and you do support terrorism.

"While you were on bail you were subject to strict conditions.

Ali has been jailed for a total of 39 months [PA]

"You didn't report to the police station and sadly action wasn't taken as
swiftly as it should have been," he added, speaking of the week it took Bethnal
Green police to alert counter-terrorism police that Ali had disappeared.

"You then made a really determined attempt to flee the jurisdiction. You
acquired somebody else's passport.

"It is very obvious you were getting help and that gives me an insight.'"

Ali was jailed for 15 months for possession of the extremist material useful to
terrorists, 16 months consecutive for the possession of a stolen passport and
eight months concurrent for the bail act offence.

Dressed in a cream tunic and skullcap, Ali gave no reaction as he was sent down.

Earlier in mitigation, his lawyer Naeem Mian argued that Ali had made no attempt
to disseminate the terrorist material and there was no suggestion that he was
himself a terrorist.

During the trial, jurors were told Ali was first arrested in December 2011 when
he took part in a protest against American drone attacks in Pakistan alongside
members of the banned group Muslims Against Crusades outside the US embassy.

Ali threatened a terror attack against the Duke and Duchess of Cambridge's
wedding [GETTY]

He was released without charge but during the investigation an MP3 player was
seized with a laptop and external hard drive taken from his home during a
search.

When they were examined, they were shown to contain documents that were useful
to terrorists, the court heard.

When police searched his home months later, they found his new computer also
contained extremist material, jurors were told.

During the trial, prosecutor Oliver Glasgow told the court Ali had promoted
extremism in YouTube videos under the alias Asad Ullah.

In a clip from 2011, he warns the viewer not to attend the royal wedding because
of a terror attack and in another clip, Ali hails the 9/11 attack as "an
historic event", the court heard.

The jury was also told that in addition to documents he was charged with having,
police recovered two personal recordings of a telephone call between the
defendant and the radical Islamist Shaykh Omar Bakri Mohammed.

And he had a transcript of a speech given by Omar Bakri in which he seeks to
legitimise suicide bombings.

On November 29, 2012, Ali was charged with possession of documents or records
containing information of a kind likely to be useful to a person committing or
preparing an act of terrorism contrary to Section 58 of the Terrorism Act 2000.

He was found guilty of possessing two electronic files containing Inspire - the
Al Qaeda magazine - and an electronic file containing '39 Means to Serve and
Participate in Jihad'. He was found not guilty on a fourth count.

LOAD-DATE: August 12, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDE


              Copyright 2014 Northern and Shell Media Publications
                              All Rights Reserved

                              349 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                   MailOnline

                      August 12, 2014 Tuesday 8:11 PM GMT

Moment Muslim extremist warned there would be terror attack during William and
Kate's wedding as he's jailed for 31 months for possessing terror manuals

BYLINE: SOPHIE JANE EVANS FOR MAILONLINE

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 878 words



     ·    Afsor Ali, 27, was filmed telling viewers not to attend 2011 royal
          wedding
     ·    He claimed there was 'high possibility' of terror attack at the major
          event
     ·    He also kept stash of al-Qaeda documents, including bomb-making plans
     ·    Ali was today jailed for two years and seven months at the Old Bailey
     ·    He was found guilty of three counts of possessing terrorist material


This is the shocking moment a convicted Muslim extremist warned there would be a
terror attack during the Duke and Duchess of Cambridge's wedding.

Afsor Ali, 27, who worked in security on the London Underground, was captured on
video telling viewers not to attend the event on April 29, 2011, at Westminster
Abbey in London.

Under the alias Abu Assadullah, he can be heard warning there is a 'high
possibility of an attack' at the 'royal wedding'.

Scroll down for video

In the footage, posted on YouTube, he also tells viewers that the British public
have 'no one to blame except themselves' because they failed to condemn the
government.

In addition to the video, Ali kept a stash of terror manuals on his MP3 player,
owned a copy of the al-Qaeda magazine Inspire with a guide on how to make bombs
and fire an AK-47, and branded the 9/11 terrorist atrocity 'an historic event'.

Now, he has been jailed for two years and seven months after being convicted of
three out of four counts of possessing terrorist material at London's Old
Bailey.

At an earlier hearing, Ali, from Bethnal Green, east London, had admitted
possessing someone else's UK passport in an unsuccessful bid to flee on the
Eurostar to Paris in March.

And today, he also pleaded guilty to a bail offence by failing to attend a court
in February.

Ali was handed a 16-month jail sentence for the passport offence and an
eight-month term for skipping bail, to run concurrently, as well as a further
15-month sentence for possessing terrorist material.

Sentencing Ali, Judge Charles Wide QC told him he had made a 'really determined
attempt' to evade justice.

He said the defendant had lied in his evidence in a bid to make the jury believe
that while he was 'radical and committed', he was 'not an extremist and did not
support terrorism'.

He told Ali: 'During the trial you tried to give the jury impression that
although you were radical you weren't an extremist and didn't support terrorism.

'It is absolutely clear you are an extremist and you do support terrorism. You
deliberately tried to tuck this material away in a series of subfolders.

'Had you had the intention of using the material the sentence would have been
very different.'

He continued: 'While you were on bail, subject to strict conditions, you did not
report to the police. Sadly action was not taken as early as it should have
been.

'You then made a really determined attempt to flee the jurisdiction. You
acquired somebody else's passport. I am told you had a lot of money on you. It
is very obvious you were getting help. You are not just a loner. That is a very
serious matter.'

Dressed in a cream tunic and hat, Ali stood impassively in the dock throughout
the hearing before being led down to the cells.

Earlier in mitigation, his lawyer Naeem Miam argued that Ali had made no attempt
to disseminate the terrorist material and there was no suggestion that he was
himself a terrorist.

During the trial, jurors were told Ali was first arrested in December 2011 when
he took part in a protest against American drone attacks in Pakistan alongside
members of the banned group Muslims Against Crusades outside the U.S. embassy.

He was released without charge, but during the investigation an MP3 player was
seized, while a laptop and external hard drive were taken from his home during a
search.

When the items were examined, they were shown to contain documents that were
useful to terrorists, the court heard.

When police searched Ali's home months later, they found his new computer also
contained extremist material, jurors were told.

Oliver Glasgow, prosecuting, told the court Ali had promoted extremism in
YouTube videos under the alias Asad Ullah, which means 'Lion of God'.

He cited the two clips in which the defendant warned of a terror attack at the
royal wedding and bragged about the 9/11 attack.

The jury was also told that police recovered two personal recordings of a
telephone call between Ali and the radical Islamist Shaykh Omar Bakri Mohammed.

'It is absolutely clear you are an extremist and you do support terrorism. You
deliberately tried to tuck this material away'                         Judge
Charles Wide QC

The defendant also possessed a transcript of a speech given by Omar Bakri, in
which he seeks to legitimise suicide bombings.

On November 29, 2012, Ali was charged with possession of documents or records
containing information of a kind likely to be useful to a person committing or
preparing an act of terrorism contrary to Section 58 of the Terrorism Act 2000.

He was found guilty of possessing two electronic files containing Inspire - the
al Qaida magazine - and an electronic file containing 39 Means to Serve and
Participate in Jihad.

He was found not guilty of a fourth count.

Judge Wide ordered the destruction of Ali's computers and MP3 player that were
seized by police

LOAD-DATE: August 12, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDM


                   Copyright 2014 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              350 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                   MailOnline

                      August 12, 2014 Tuesday 7:16 PM GMT

Moment Muslim extremist warned there would be terror attack during William and
Kate's wedding as he's jailed for 31 months for possessing terror manuals

BYLINE: SOPHIE JANE EVANS FOR MAILONLINE

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 893 words



     ·    Afsor Ali, 27, was filmed telling viewers not to attend 2011 royal
          wedding
     ·    He claimed there was 'high possibility' of terror attack at the major
          event
     ·    He also kept stash of al-Qaeda documents, including bomb-making plans
     ·    Ali was today jailed for two years and seven months at at the Old
          Bailey
     ·    He was found guilty of three counts of possessing terrorist material


This is the shocking moment a convicted Muslim extremist warned there would be a
terror attack during the Duke and Duchess of Cambridge's wedding.

Afsor Ali, 27, who worked in security on the London Underground, was captured on
video telling viewers not to attend the event on April 29, 2011, at Westminster
Abbey in London.

Under the alias Abu Assadullah, he can be heard warning there is a 'high
possibility of an attack' at the 'royal wedding'.

Scroll down for video

In the footage, posted on YouTube, he also tells viewers that the British public
have 'no one to blame except themselves' because they failed to condemn the
government.

In addition to the video, Ali kept a stash of terror manuals on his MP3 player,
owned a copy of the al-Qaeda magazine Inspire with a guide on how to make bombs
and fire an AK-47, and branded the 9/11 terrorist atrocity 'an historic event'.

Now, he has been jailed for two years and seven months after being convicted of
three out of four counts of possessing terrorist material at London's Old
Bailey.

At an earlier hearing, Ali, from Bethnal Green, east London, had admitted
possessing someone else's UK passport in an unsuccessful bid to flee on the
Eurostar to Paris in March.

And today, he also pleaded guilty to a bail offence by failing to attend a court
in February.

Ali was handed a 16-month jail sentence for the passport offence and an
eight-month term for skipping bail, to run concurrently, as well as a further
15-month sentence for possessing terrorist material.

Sentencing Ali, Judge Charles Wide QC told him he had made a 'really determined
attempt' to evade justice.

He said the defendant had lied in his evidence in a bid to make the jury believe
that while he was 'radical and committed', he was 'not an extremist and did not
support terrorism'.

He told Ali: 'During the trial you tried to give the jury impression that
although you were radical you weren't an extremist and didn't support terrorism.

'It is absolutely clear you are an extremist and you do support terrorism. You
deliberately tried to tuck this material away in a series of subfolders.

'Had you had the intention of using the material the sentence would have been
very different.'

He continued: 'While you were on bail, subject to strict conditions, you did not
report to the police. Sadly action was not taken as early as it should have
been.

'You then made a really determined attempt to flee the jurisdiction. You
acquired somebody else's passport. I am told you had a lot of money on you. It
is very obvious you were getting help. You are not just a loner. That is a very
serious matter.'

Dressed in a cream tunic and hat, Ali stood impassively in the dock throughout
the hearing before being led down to the cells.

Earlier in mitigation, his lawyer Naeem Miam argued that Ali had made no attempt
to disseminate the terrorist material and there was no suggestion that he was
himself a terrorist.

During the trial, jurors were told Ali was first arrested in December 2011 when
he took part in a protest against American drone attacks in Pakistan alongside
members of the banned group Muslims Against Crusades outside the US embassy.

He was released without charge, but during the investigation an MP3 player was
seized with a laptop and external hard drive taken from his home during a
search.

When they were examined, they were shown to contain documents that were useful
to terrorists, the court heard.

When police searched his home months later, they found his new computer also
contained extremist material, jurors were told.

During the trial, Oliver Glasgow, prosecuting, told the court Ali had promoted
extremism in YouTube videos under the alias Asad Ullah, which means 'Lion of
God'.

He cited the two clips in which the defendant warned of a terror attack at the
royal wedding and bragged about the 9/11 attack.

The jury was also told that in addition to documents he was charged with having,
police recovered two personal recordings of a telephone call between the
defendant and the radical Islamist Shaykh Omar Bakri Mohammed.

'It is absolutely clear you are an extremist and you do support terrorism'
Judge Charles Wide QC

And he had a transcript of a speech given by Omar Bakri in which he seeks to
legitimise suicide bombings.

On November 29, 2012, Ali was charged with possession of documents or records
containing information of a kind likely to be useful to a person committing or
preparing an act of terrorism contrary to Section 58 of the Terrorism Act 2000.

He was found guilty of possessing two electronic files containing Inspire - the
al Qaida magazine - and an electronic file containing 39 Means to Serve and
Participate in Jihad.

He was found not guilty of a fourth count accusing him of possession of the
terrorist manual '39 Ways to Serve and Participate in Jihad'.

The judge ordered the destruction of the computers and MP3 player that were
seized by police

LOAD-DATE: August 12, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDM


                   Copyright 2014 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              351 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                 standard.co.uk

                      August 12, 2014 Tuesday 11:14 AM GMT

Extremist who posted YouTube video warning of terror attack on Duke and Duchess
of Cambridge jailed

SECTION: CRIME

LENGTH: 392 words


An extremist who posted a YouTube video warning of a terror attack on the
wedding of the Duke and Duchess of Cambridge was jailed today for 31 months.

Afsor Ali, 27, was found guilty by an Old Bailey jury of three counts of
possessing terrorist material and admitted jumping bail.

Before his trial Ali, of Bethnal Green, had acquired a stolen passport and was
on the verge of boarding a Eurostar to Paris when he was re-arrested.

Sentencing, Judge Charles Wide QC told him: "You pretended to the jury that you
were not an extremist but that was a lie. It is absolutely plain that you are an
extremist and you do support terrorism."

He described the Eurostar incident as "a really serious attempt to flee the
jurisdiction. If it had not been for a sharp-eyed French official at St Pancras
you would have fled."

Ali was first arrested in December 2011 when he took part in a protest against
American drone attacks in Pakistan alongside members of the banned group Muslims
Against Crusades outside the US embassy.

He was released without charge but during the investigation an MP3 player was
seized with a laptop and external hard drive taken from his home during a
search.

When they were examined, they were shown to contain documents that were useful
to terrorists, the court heard.

Related stories

When police searched his home months later they found his new computer also
contained extremist material.

During the trial, prosecutor Oliver Glasgow told the court Ali had promoted
extremism in YouTube videos under the alias Asad Ullah.

In a clip from 2012 he warns the viewer not to attend the royal wedding because
of a terror attack.

In another clip, Ali hails the 9/11 attack as "an historic event", the court
heard.

The jury was also told that police recovered two personal recordings of a
telephone call between Ali and Omar Bakri, dubbed the Tottenham Ayatollah.

He also had a transcript of a speech given by Bakri in which the cleric seeks to
legitimise suicide bombings.

Ali was charged with possession of documents or records containing information
of a kind likely to be useful to a person committing or preparing an act of
terrorism contrary to Section 58 of the Terrorism Act 2000.

He was found guilty of possessing two electronic files containing Inspire - the
al Qaida magazine - and an electronic file containing 39 Means to Serve and
Participate in Jihad.

LOAD-DATE: August 12, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBES


                    Copyright 2014 Evening Standard Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              352 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                     Daily Echo (Newsquest Regional Press)

                           August 13, 2014 Wednesday

Inquest into Afghanistan terror attack victim

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 457 words


An inquest is to resume today into the death of a Southampton Labour MEP
candidate who was killed in a suicide bomb and gun attack in Afghanistan.

Dhamender Singh Phangurha, known as Del Singh, died in the attack on a
restaurant in Kabul on January 17 which killed 21 people including senior UN
officials, Afghan dignitaries and restaurant staff.

Simon Chase, a former British soldier from Limavady, Co Londonderry, was also
killed.

His partner, Komal Adris, 35, said he had advised Labour leader Ed Miliband on
Israeli and Palestinian policy and travelled regularly to Afghanistan.

She said: ''He loved the country. He's been going there on and off for around
six years. He kept going back to all these conflict areas because he loved his
work and wanted to see a more peaceful world.''

The 39-year-old, from St Mary's, had been a Labour candidate for this year's
Euro elections and Mr Miliband paid tribute to him after the incident saying:
''He dedicated his life to working with people across the world who needed his
support.''

Mr Singh was an international development specialist who had extensive
experience managing EU and UN projects in post-conflict countries including
Afghanistan, Palestine, Libya and Sierra Leone.

He started off working at food factories before he went on to gain a business
degree and masters in European studies.

He gained experience as a European policy adviser before gaining a position as
an adviser for the European Mission in Kosovo where he helped develop the first
economic national plan for the country.

Mr Singh then went on to manage a European Commission aid development programme
in Sudan and worked on other projects in Afghanistan, Sierra Leone, Libya,
Nepal, and Palestine.

He also supported local homeless and job-seekers charities and acted as an
independent election observer in Macedonia.

A tribute on his website says: ''Del Singh, a loving son and brother, a true
friend and dedicated humanitarian who brought happiness to so many of us in his
short life.

''Del spent his life campaigning for social justice and trying to make the world
a better place and for all of those fortunate to have met him, I'm sure you'll
agree ''he was sunshine most always...I mean he made it seem like good weather''
(Mark Twain, the Adventures of Huckleberry Finn).''

The blast occurred at the Taverna du Liban restaurant, which is popular with
tourists and westerners. The suicide attacker detonated his explosives outside
the gate of the heavily fortified restaurant.

Two gunmen entered the restaurant and started shooting at people inside. It is
believed they were eventually shot dead by security forces when they arrived at
the scene.

The inquest will be heard by Central Hampshire coroner Grahame Short at
Winchester.

LOAD-DATE: August 26, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2014 NewsQuest Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              353 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                  mirror.co.uk

                     August 13, 2014 Wednesday 8:03 AM GMT

Extremist tube worker who warned of terror attack on Royal Wedding is jailed;
Afsor Ali was found guilty on three charges of possessing terrorist material

BYLINE: By Richard Hartley-Parkinson

SECTION: NEWS,UK NEWS

LENGTH: 635 words


An extremist convicted of trying to flee the country after he was caught with
terrorist material on his computer has been jailed for a total of two years and
seven months.

Afsor Ali, 27, who posted a YouTube video warning of a terror attack on the
royal wedding, was found guilty of three out of four counts of possessing
terrorist material following a trial at the Old Bailey.

Ali, of Bethnal Green, east London, had earlier admitted possessing someone
else's UK passport in an unsuccessful bid to flee on the Eurostar to Paris in
March.

And today he also pleaded guilty to a bail offence by failing to attend a court
in February.

Judge Charles Wide QC told him he had made a "really determined attempt" to
evade justice as he jailed him for 16 months for the passport offence and eight
months for skipping bail to run concurrently.

He also jailed him for a further 15 months for possessing terrorist material
which included information from al Qaida on how to make a bomb and how to use an
AK47 gun.

The judge told Ali he had lied in his evidence when he tried to make the jury
believe that while he was "radical and committed" he was "not an extremist and
did not support terrorism".

He said: "It is absolutely clear you are an extremist and you do support
terrorism."

Judge Wide went on: "While you were on bail, subject to strict conditions, you
did not report to the police. Sadly action was not taken as early as it should
have been.

"You then made a really determined attempt to flee the jurisdiction. You
acquired somebody else's passport. I am told you had a lot of money on you. It
is very obvious you were getting help. You are not just a loner. That is a very
serious matter."

Ali, dressed in a cream tunic and hat and who said he had worked in 'security'
on London Underground, made no reaction as he was sent down.

Earlier in mitigation, his lawyer Naeem Miam argued that Ali had made no attempt
to disseminate the terrorist material and there was no suggestion that he was
himself a terrorist.

During the trial, jurors were told Ali was first arrested in December 2011 when
he took part in a protest against American drone attacks in Pakistan alongside
members of the banned group Muslims Against Crusades outside the US embassy.

He was released without charge but during the investigation an MP3 player was
seized with a laptop and external hard drive taken from his home during a
search.

When they were examined, they were shown to contain documents that were useful
to terrorists, the court heard.

When police searched his home months later, they found his new computer also
contained extremist material, jurors were told.

During the trial, prosecutor Oliver Glasgow told the court Ali had promoted
extremism in YouTube videos under the alias Asad Ullah.

In a clip from 2011, he warns the viewer not to attend the royal wedding because
of a terror attack.

In another clip, Ali hails the 9/11 attack as "an historic event", the court
heard.

The jury was also told that in addition to documents he was charged with having,
police recovered two personal recordings of a telephone call between the
defendant and the radical Islamist Shaykh Omar Bakri Mohammed.

And he had a transcript of a speech given by Omar Bakri in which he seeks to
legitimise suicide bombings.

On November 29, 2012, Ali was charged with possession of documents or records
containing information of a kind likely to be useful to a person committing or
preparing an act of terrorism contrary to Section 58 of the Terrorism Act 2000.

He was found guilty of possessing two electronic files containing Inspire - the
al Qaida magazine - and an electronic file containing 39 Means to Serve and
Participate in Jihad. He was found not guilty on a fourth count.

The judge ordered the destruction of the computers and MP3 player that were
seized by police.

LOAD-DATE: September 6, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDMI


                      Copyright 2014 Trinity Mirror, Plc.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              354 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                           Medway Messenger (Friday)

                                August 15, 2014

Gun attack terror of kidnap victim thrust in car boot

LENGTH: 427  words


by Keith Hunt

A terrified man feared he would be killed after he was thrown into the boot of a
car by four men and had a gun thrust in his mouth, a court heard.

David Noy's ordeal began as he was walking along Duncan Road in Gillingham.

He was pistol-whipped, punched and kicked before a hood was put over his head.

He was eventually ordered to walk away and not look back.

Maidstone Crown Court heard the victim knew two of his attackers, Sacha
Havelock-Dewaele, 22, and Peter Jenkins, 35, who made a sexual allegation made
against him.

Mr Noy was walking along Duncan Road, Gillingham, on April 2, when a Peugeot
stopped and four men got out.

Prosecutor Thom Dyke said Mr Noy was bundled into the boot and driven to
marshland.

"What he believes was a handgun was forced into his mouth by Havelock-Dewaele,"
he said. "He made various threats to kill him before striking him with the gun.

"The other three men joined in, punching and kicking him.

"A hood was placed over his head and he was led away.

"He was instructed to carry on walking and not look back. His mobile phone,
house keys and £10 cash were taken."

He went to a nearby house in distress and police were called.

Havelock-Dewaele and Jenkins, both of Canterbury Street, Gillingham, admitted
kidnap and assault causing actual bodily harm.

Havelock-Dewaele also admitted possessing an imitation firearm.

Havelock-Dewaele was jailed for five years and three months and Jenkins for
three years and nine months.

Havelock-Dewaele had 54 convictions for 90 offences. Jenkins had four
convictions for seven offences.

Judge David Griffith-Jones QC told them: "This was a quite horrific attack by
four men on a defenceless victim."

Passing sentence, Judge Griffith-Jones said: "It seems there was a grievance
over his alleged activities to which you had taken exception, as a result of
which, quite disgracefully and without any justification, you were intent on
retribution.

"It must have been a terrifying ordeal for Mr Noy, who for a time believed he
was to be killed.

"Not surprisingly, he was in a very distressed state when helped by a member of
the public."

Investigating officer DC Philip Pead said afterwards: "This was a terrifying and
life-changing experience for the victim, who is still suffering the
after-effects of this trauma.

"After having a gun pointed at his face, then being hooded and told to walk into
marshland he was convinced he was about to be killed.

"Havelock-Dewaele and Jenkins were responsible for that terror and showed
absolutely no regard for their victim as they beat and tormented him that
evening."

LOAD-DATE: August 15, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2014 KM Media Group Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                              355 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring South Asia - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                            August 16, 2014 Saturday

Two soldiers killed in Indian Kashmir terror attack - website

LENGTH: 139 words


Text of report by website of Indian news channel Zee News on 16 August

Jammu: Within a day after India celebrated its Independence Day, militants
opened fire at Border Security Force [BSF] vehicle in Pulwama district of Jammu
and Kashmir [J&K, Indian-administered Kashmir] which claimed the lives of two
BSF jawans [soldiers], as per police reports on Saturday [16 August].

While two jawans were killed, four others are critically injured.

Though no assailant has been arrested as of now, the Special Operations Group
(SOG) has begun hunting for the militants in the nearby areas.

The injured jawans are under medical observation.

In July, one policeman was killed and four others were injured in a grenade
attack by militants in the Sopore town of Baramulla district in J&K.

Source: Zee News TV website, Noida, in English 0000gmt 16 Aug 14

LOAD-DATE: August 16, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2014 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              356 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                       BBC Monitoring Africa - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                             August 18, 2014 Monday

Withdrawal of Kenyan army from Somalia "unlikely to stop terrorist attacks"
-report

LENGTH: 758 words


Text of report entitled "KDF withdrawal from Somalia 'will not stop attacks'" by
Kenyan privately-owned newspaper Daily Nation website on 18 August

Withdrawal of KDF [Kenya Defence Forces] contingents from Somalia is unlikely to
stop terrorist attacks as the Al-Shabaab group is already deeply entrenched in
Kenya, a new report says.

Mr Odinga said the reason why the government decided to send troops to Somalia
was to destroy the Al-Shabab cell that was also being used to plan attacks in
Kenya.

President Uhuru Kenyatta on the other hand has insisted that he has no intention
of withdrawing the troops from the war torn country until they accomplish their
mission.

The report observes that the current insecurity in form of terrorist attacks and
localised conflicts are posing the most significant threat to Nairobi, Lamu,
Mombasa, Turkana, Garissa, Wajir and Mandera counties.

Withdrawal of the Kenya Defence Forces contingents from Somalia is unlikely to
stop terrorist attacks as the Al-Shabaab group is already deeply entrenched in
Kenya, a new report on national security status says.

Instead, the report released last week, proposes that Kenya's ongoing commitment
should be focused on enhancing global and local initiatives to stabilise
Somalia.

"By exiting Somalia at this time, this may deprive Kenya's national security
managers of vital information required to protect Kenya's domestic and regional
interests.

"But concerns about whether Kenya should withdraw or not from military
operations alongside other Amisom members as a result of Al-Shabaab threats and
Kenya Defence Force fatalities are legitimate," observes the report released
last week by Think Security Africa (TSA), an independent group specialising in
security in Africa.

But TSA says that Kenya needs to decide whether the current internal security
challenges are best served by a military response or whether a long term goal of
stabilising Somalia and the long-term benefits that would follow should take
precedence.

The report giving credence to continued stay by the KDF in Somalia is coming at
a time when the issue is generating heated debate in Kenya after a series of
attacks linked to the terrorist group Al-Shabaab.

CORD leader Raila Odinga has been calling for the withdrawal of KDF from Somalia
saying they have accomplished what they went to do.

Destroy Al-Shabab

Mr Odinga said the reason why the government decided to send troops to Somalia
was to destroy the Al-Shabaab cell that was also being used to plan attacks in
Kenya.

"We agreed with retired President Mwai Kibaki to send our forces there because
the terror group had become the biggest threat to our internal security.

"They have done that and as far as we are concerned they no longer have business
there," Raila has been quoted on several occasions.

Instead of staying in Somalia, the troops should come back and beef up security
in the country adding that it is in Kenya where there are serious security
problems, he said.

President Uhuru Kenyatta on the other hand has insisted that he has no intention
of withdrawing the troops from the war torn country until they accomplish their
mission.

TSA highly rates Kenya as a regional hub meaning that the importance of security
in Kenya for regional development makes security a regional concern.

Existing security concerns, TSA notes, need to be assessed against a backdrop of
changing political realities in Kenya, with devolution which is expected to
produce medium to long-term development dividends to Kenyans coming into sharp
focus.

"Kenya plays a key role for sub-regional trade and logistics, and this role is
set to expand with the inception of Lamu Port and Southern Sudan - Ethiopia
Transport (LAPSSET) Corridor .

"While devolution from eight provinces to 47 counties is intended to bring
governance closer to the people, it also makes it more feasible for the current
spate of terrorist attacks (and radicalisation within Kenya) to evolve into an
insurgency - as there are now almost eight times as many governmental targets to
attack," reveals the report.

The report observes that the current insecurity in form of terrorist attacks and
localised conflicts are posing the most significant threat to Nairobi, Lamu,
Mombasa, Turkana, Garissa, Wajir and Mandera counties.

"The recently reported cases of violence along the Coast of Kenya have had
tangible impact on communities such as those in Mpeketoni. However the most
serious concern remains the ideological shift that is radicalising youths.

Source: Daily Nation website, Nairobi, in English 18 Aug 14

LOAD-DATE: August 18, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2014 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              357 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                   MailOnline

                       August 18, 2014 Monday 3:06 PM GMT

Could a 'terror camera' prevent an attack? Device scans crowds for would-be
bombers by pinpointing people who seem stressed

BYLINE: ELLIE ZOLFAGHARIFARD FOR MAILONLINE

SECTION: SCIENCE

LENGTH: 500 words



     ·    Camera works by measuring the amount of oxygen in a person's blood
     ·    It places a 'stress bar' above person's head if they are acting
          anxious
     ·    Technology still under development and needs  better computing power
     ·    China's Southwest University in Chongqing says the device will not be
          launched for commercial use until laws exist in China to govern its
          use


You might want to keep your fear of flying in check next time you're at an
airport.

A new camera being developing in China aims to highlight highly-anxious people
in the hopes of catching suicide bombers.

The device uses a stress sensor that measures the amount of oxygen in blood in
various parts of the body, such as the face, to pick out suspects in a crowd.

The device is currently under development at China's Southwest University in
Chongqing and was inspired by recent deadly attacks in the country.

In March, eight knife-wielding criminals in the city of Kunming, Yunnan left 29
civilians dead and over 140 others injured

'They all looked and behaved as ordinary people but their level of mental stress
must have been extremely high before they launched their attacks,' Chen Tong, an
associate professor of electronic information engineering at Southwest
University told Stephen Chen at South China Morning Post.

'The higher the mental stress, the higher the blood oxygenation. Our technology
can detect such people, so law enforcement officers can take precautions and
prevent these tragedies.'

HOW DOES STRESS AFFECT OXYGEN IN THE BODY?

When the body is stress it releases hormones such as epinephrine and cortisol
which increase strength and concentration.

Heart speeds up, sending more blood and oxygen to your muscles so you can take
the body can take 'fight or flight' action as soon as possible.

Chronic stress, or a constant stress experienced over a prolonged period of
time, can contribute to long-term health problems for the heart and blood
vessels.

Other indicators of stress, such as changes in heart rate and facial expression,
can be controlled with practice, which is why the researchers chose to focus on
the level of blood oxygenation.

The camera uses something known as hyperspectral imaging which examines
information across the electromagnetic spectrum and can pick out oxygen levels.
The more stressed you are, the more oxygen is in your body.

Professor Tong explained that the mini-cameras would place a 'stress bar' above
a person's head to help police officers monitor suspicious behaviour.

He added that device would be able to tell the difference between high-oxygen
levels in the blood caused by moderate exercise, such as running, and oxygen
levels caused by stress.

The technology is still at development stage and requires improvements in
computing power to fit into a handheld device.

Even if the technical problems are overcome, Professor Chen says that the device
will not be launched for commercial use until laws exist in China to govern its
use.

LOAD-DATE: August 18, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDM


                   Copyright 2014 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              358 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring Middle East - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                            August 19, 2014 Tuesday

Morocco preparing for potential "terrorist attack" from the air

LENGTH: 261 words


Excerpt from report by Moroccan privately-owned newspaper Assabah website on 18
August

Not far from Casablanca city centre where very high buildings are located, the
first signs have begun to appear of Morocco's preparedness for a Moroccan
version of the 11 September attacks. This is happening in the wake of US
intelligence warnings of the possibility of the Al-Qa'idah in the Islamic
Maghreb [AQIM/AQLIM] and the supporters of [Islamist group] Ansar al-Shari'ah
targeting major Moroccan towns.

The intelligence reports spoke of explosives being planted in Libyan planes with
the aim of launching air attacks against vital installations in North African
countries in a scenario similar to that of the 11 September 2001 attack in New
York and Washington.

In the last few weeks the military contented themselves with halting the
ordinary granting of leave for the troops but they have now moved on to
declaring a state of alert in the air defence organs last Saturday evening [16
August], in the urban areas of Casablanca. They have turned the shanty town
called El Assassa Block, in Anfa district, into a military zone where
anti-aircraft missile batteries have been installed in the direction of the
Atlantic Ocean.

[Passage omitted: further details]

In this context, Tunisia and Algeria have decided to close their air corridors
used by Libyan civil cargo planes in anticipation of any air attacks given the
unclear situation at Tripoli airport, which has been the scene of bloody clashes
between armed militias.

Source: Assabah website, Casablanca, in Arabic 18 Aug 14

LOAD-DATE: August 19, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2014 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              359 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                               Independent.co.uk

                      August 19, 2014 Tuesday 9:12 AM GMT

Iraq crisis: Islamic State's message to America - 'We will drown you all in
blood';
Isis militants have threatened to launch terrorist attacks after air strikes

BYLINE: Lizzie Dearden

SECTION: FRONTPAGE

LENGTH: 406 words


Islamic militants losing ground in Iraq under fire from US forces have
threatened to launch terrorist attacks on American soil in revenge.

A video posted online by the Islamic State (Isis) warned that Americans will be
attacked "in any place" if air strikes continue to hit its fighters.

After showing footage of a US soldier apparently being killed by a sniper and a
photo of an American beheaded during the Iraq occupation, a statement in English
reads: "We will drown all of you in blood".

In a previous message posted by Isis on Twitter last week said "we are in your
state, we are in your cities, we are in your streets" with a picture of the
Islamist black flag with the White House in the background.

Unlike al-Qa'ida, Isis has focused on gaining control of swathes of land and
numerous towns and cities in Iraq and Syria rather than attacking Western
targets.

Mass executions, kidnappings, beheadings and other atrocities have been reported
during the group's bloody rampage through northern Iraq.

Isis violently adheres to Sunni Islam and tens of thousands Shias, Christians
and other religious minorities have been fleeing for their lives.

Video: Iraqi and Kurdish forces take back Mosul Dam

Kurdish and Iraqi forces assisted by US air strikes have had some success in
recent weeks reclaiming territory from the militants, who have threatened to
march on the capital Baghdad.

Barack Obama approved the first American air strikes since the end of the
occupation in 2011 earlier this month, saying the US could not "turn a blind
eye" to genocide.

The attacks started as part of humanitarian efforts to help thousands of trapped
Yazidis flee Mount Sinjar and have continued to help Kurdish and Iraqi forces
drive back the jihadists. In pictures: The rise of Isis

The President claimed a tactical victory with the recapture of the Mosul dam,
one of the largest in Iraq, and hailed the co-operation between government
troops and Kurdish Peshmerga fighters on the ground.

"We are not reintroducing thousands of troops to engage in combat," he insisted.

David Cameron has said British troops will not be sent in after reports that UK
"military assets" entered the country to help humanitarian operations.

Additional reporting by Reuters

Read more: Mosul dam capture by Isis 'could have been catastrophic' says
ObamaBritish troops will not set foot on Iraqi soil, David Cameron insistsIraqi
and Kurdish forces 'retake Mosul dam' in victory over Isis

LOAD-DATE: August 19, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBI


           Copyright 2014 Independent Digital News and Media Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              360 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                      August 19, 2014 Tuesday 7:29 AM GMT

China plans to fight terror with 'dozens' of new cities;
Building dozens of new cities and towns in the restive western region of
Xinjiang provides a 'fundamental solution' to the escalating threat of terrorist
attacks, officials claim

BYLINE: By Tom Phillips Shanghai

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 783 words


Dozens of new cities and towns will be built from scratch in China's remote and
restive far west as part of the country's intensifying "people's war" on terror,
according to reports in the state media.

Hundreds of people have been arrested and tried in recent months following a
series of deadly attacks on Chinese civilians in major cities including Beijing,
Kunming and Urumqi, the capital of the western province of Xinjiang. In the most
recent explosion of violence, police said they gunned down 59 alleged terrorists
who slaughtered 37 people during an assault on civilians and government
installations in late July.

Beijing has blamed the attacks on Islamic extremists from Xinjiang, a
predominantly Muslim region that is home to the Uighur ethnic minority. Armed
police have been deployed across the country since the official anti-terror
crackdown was launched in Mayand in some cities civilians have been invited to
join anti-terror "red guard" units.

Now, Chinese authorities are calling on urban planners to join their war on
terror.

"Urbanisation serves as a fundamental solution to tackle poverty, unemployment
and inequality in less-developed southern Xinjiang where religious conservatism
is prevalent and terrorist attacks occur more frequently," the state-run Global
Times newspaper reported.

"Measures such as creating jobs and improving education are seen as fundamental
solutions to addressing the threat of terrorism."

Many of the new cities and towns will reportedly be built by the Xinjiang
Production and Construction Corps or XPCC - a state-run paramilitary
organisation that controls large swathes of the western region, a sizeable
agricultural empire and even its own university, courts and police force.

During a visit to Xinjiang in April, president Xi Jinping called on the group -
which was founded in 1954 under Chairman Mao and is better known as the
"bingtuan" - to act as a "stabiliser of the country's border areas".

The bingtuan has built seven cites since its foundation, three of which are in
southern Xinjiang. Xu Weihua, the group's deputy political commissar, said the
new cities would help both "maintain social stability and boost local
development".

"Building cities and townships there is an urgent task and our priority, as the
XPCC can use its economic and cultural advantages to help local people enjoy a
modern and civilized social life," he said.

The cities could help promote "modern culture", Wang Dahao, a Xinjiang-based
writer was quoted as saying.

Few precise details of the anti-terror cities have been provided. However, one
will reportedly be near Hotan, a city in southern Xinjiang that has witnessed
repeated outbreaks of violence including a botched axe-attack on a chess hall in
June.

In July 2011, as many as 20 people were reportedly killed during what
authorities claimed was an assault on a local police station.

The bingtuan's move to build dozens of new cities fits into a "very ambitious"
20-year plan urbanisation plan unveiled by Xinjiang's government in 2012, said
James Leibold, an academic from Australia's La Trobe University who studies
China's ethnic policies.

"Xinjiang must march onto the road of new style urbanization," says the plan,
calling for 68 per cent of inhabitants to live in cities by 2030.

Cities such as Kashgar, Korla, Karamay, Hami, Aksu and Yining will be
transformed into "major poles of growth" while a number of completely new cities
with more than 500,000 residents will be created.

Dr Leibold said Xi Jinping was now pushing the bingtuan to play a greater role
in three key aspects of Xinjiang life: security, economics and urbanization.

The new cities were designed to turbo-charge Xinjiang's economy. "Let's create
more money, more jobs."

The bingtuan's cities would also "try to integrate Uighurs more closely into
Chinese society," as a way of potentially guarding against increasing religious
radicalisation and reducing ethnic violence between Uighurs and China's Han
majority. "But they don't have a track record of being very good on this," Dr
Leibold added.

Li Wei, a counter-terrorism expert from the China Institute of Contemporary
International Relations, said city building could play an "auxiliary" role in
his country's war on terror by "eliminating the roots and soil" in which
terrorism had flourished.

"Urbanisation could help shrink the urban-rural divide, develop the economy and
improve the living standard of less developed places," he said.

However, the battle against "extreme thought" could not be won by focusing on
living conditions alone. Urbanisation could even aggravate Xinjiang's security
situation by triggering new social conflicts related to land disputes, Prof Li
warned.

LOAD-DATE: August 19, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTNS


                  Copyright 2014 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              361 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                               Independent.co.uk

                     August 20, 2014 Wednesday 11:36 AM GMT

James Foley 'beheaded': Foreign Secretary warns of Isis international terrorist
attacks after killing of American journalist;
American authorities are attempting to verify footage posted by Isis

BYLINE: Lizzie Dearden

SECTION: FRONTPAGE

LENGTH: 653 words


The Foreign Secretary has said the man shown beheading James Foley in a video
appears to be British as he warned that the Islamic State could launch terrorist
attacks on the UK.

Philip Hammond said the militant group, known as Isis, was not just a threat to
Syria and Iraq, where it has killed countless civilians and caused thousands of
people to flee in terror, but to our own national security.

"If Isis becomes established in Iraq and Syria it will undoubtedly use it as a
base for launching attacks on the West," he told Radio 4's Today programme.

"It will undoubtedly send its fighters out to attack Western targets.

"Equally, if it gets pushed back, some of these people will return to their
country of origin and it's not just the UK.

"We will see these people going back and potentially carrying on their fight in
our homelands."

David Cameron is returning to Downing Street today to hold meetings over the
murder and the escalating crisis in Iraq.

The Prime Minister, who was on holiday in Cornwall with his family, will meet Mr
Hammond and senior security officials, a Downing Street spokesperson said.

Mr Hammond said it was "far too late" to worry about the consequences of
effectively waging war on Isis, who are believed to have beheaded Mr Foley in
revenge for US air strikes against militants in Iraq.

"We oppose them with every breath in our body," he added.

"Isis are waging war on moderate Islamic opinion and they are waging war on the
West and we have to deal with them on that basis."

The former Defence Secretary said Britain would supply weapons, technical
support, intelligence and surveillance at the request of Iraqi and Kurdish
forces battling against the jihadists.

He did not rule out the possibility that soldiers would be sent to Iraq for
training purposes but said he did not view this as "boots on the ground" and
insisted they would not be involved in combat.

Mr Hammond would not respond to questions on the reported presence of British
special forces in Iraq but did not deny the suggestion.

Video: Isis warning to the West

He called the apparent beheading of Mr Foley, who was abducted while reporting
on the Syrian civil war in 2012, "one more example in a catalogue of brutality"
by Isis.

American intelligence agencies have not yet verified the video but Mr Foley's
family appeared to accept he had been killed on Tuesday night, saying he "gave
his life trying to expose the world to the suffering of the Syrian people".

The Foreign Secretary told BBC Breakfast "all the hallmarks point to it being
genuine" and acknowledged that the killer sounded British, prompting an urgent
investigation by experts.

"Certainly at first pass that's what it looks like and we will obviously want to
investigate that further," he added.

"We have been saying for a long time that there are a significant number of
British nationals in Syria and Iraq operating with extremist organisations.

"That's one of the reasons why this organisation represents such a direct threat
to the UK's national security.

"Many of these people may seek at some point to return to the UK and they would
then pose a direct threat to our domestic security."

In pictures: The rise of Isis

Mr Hammond said the Government believed British nationals in Syria were
"involved in terrible crimes" and committing atrocities with Isis and other
Islamist groups.

The apparent beheading of Mr Foley was terrible but did not change the ongoing
British operation to tackle people travelling abroad to join terrorist groups,
he said.

"I don't think this video changes anything," he added. "It just heightens
awareness of a situation that is very grave and that we've been working on for
many months."

Read more: Profile of the American journalist abducted by Islamist militants in
SyriaISLAMIC STATE RELEASES VIDEO APPARENTLY SHOWING THE BEHEADING OF MISSING US
JOURNALIST JAMES FOLEY'S MOTHER URGES KIDNAPPERS TO SPARE THE LIVES OF ANY
REMAINING HOSTAGES

LOAD-DATE: August 20, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBI


           Copyright 2014 Independent Digital News and Media Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              362 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                               Independent.co.uk

                     August 20, 2014 Wednesday 8:58 AM GMT

James Foley 'beheading': Foreign Secretary warns of Isis international terrorist
attacks after killing of American journalist;
American authorities are attempting to verify footage posted by Isis

BYLINE: Lizzie Dearden

SECTION: FRONTPAGE

LENGTH: 597 words


The Foreign Secretary has said the man shown beheading James Foley in a video
appears to be British as he warned that the Islamic State could launch terrorist
attacks on the UK.

Philip Hammond said the militant group, known as Isis, was not just a threat to
Syria and Iraq, where it has killed countless civilians and caused thousands of
people to flee in terror, but to our own national security.

"If Isis becomes established in Iraq and Syria it will inevitably use it as a
base for launching attacks on the West," he told Radio 4's Today programme.

"Equally, if it gets pushed back, some of these people will return to their
country of origin and it's not just the UK.

"We will see these people going back and potentially carrying on their fight in
our homelands."

Mr Hammond said it was "far too late" to worry about the consequences of
effectively waging war on Isis, who are believed to have beheaded Mr Foley in
revenge for US air strikes against militants in Iraq.

"We oppose them with every breath in our body," he added.

"Isis are waging on moderate Islamic opinion and they are waging war on the West
and we have to deal with them on that basis."

The former Defence Secretary said Britain would supply weapons, technical
support, intelligence and surveillance at the request of Iraqi and Kurdish
forces battling against the jihadists.

He did not rule out the possibility that soldiers would be sent to Iraq for
training purposes but said he did not view this as "boots on the ground" and
insisted they would not be involved in combat.

Warning this video may distress some viewersVideo: James Foley  speaks before
his death

Mr Hammond would not respond to questions on the reported presence of British
special forces in Iraq but did not deny the suggestion.

He called the apparent beheading of Mr Foley, who was abducted while reporting
on the Syrian civil war in 2012, "one more example in a catalogue of brutality"
by Isis.

American intelligence agencies have not yet verified the video but Mr Foley's
family appeared to accept he had been killed on Tuesday night, saying he "gave
his life trying to expose the world to the suffering of the Syrian people".

The Foreign Secretary told BBC Breakfast "all the hallmarks point to it being
genuine" and acknowledged that the killer sounded British.

"Certainly at first pass that's what it looks like and we will obviously want to
investigate that further," he added.

"We have been saying for a long time that there are a significant number of
British nationals in Syria and Iraq operating with extremist organisations.

"That's one of the reasons why this organisation represents such a direct threat
to the UK's national security.

"Many of these people may seek at some point to return to the UK and they would
then pose a direct threat to our domestic security."

In pictures: The rise of Isis

Mr Hammond said the Government believed British nationals in Syria were
"involved in terrible crimes" and committing atrocities with Isis and other
Islamist groups.

The apparent beheading of Mr Foley was terrible but did not change the ongoing
British operation to tackle people travelling abroad to join terrorist groups,
he said.

"I don't think this video changes anything," he added. "It just heightens
awareness of a situation that is very grave and that we've been working on for
many months."

Read more: Profile of the American journalist abducted by Islamist militants in
SyriaISLAMIC STATE RELEASES VIDEO APPARENTLY SHOWING THE BEHEADING OF MISSING US
JOURNALIST JAMES FOLEY'S MOTHER URGES KIDNAPPERS TO SPARE THE LIVES OF ANY
REMAINING HOSTAGES

LOAD-DATE: August 20, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBI


           Copyright 2014 Independent Digital News and Media Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              363 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring Middle East - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                            August 21, 2014 Thursday

Yemen army foil terror attack in Hadramawt

LENGTH: 596 words


Text of report in English by Yemen Times newspaper website on 21 August

[Report by Bassam Al-Khameri: "Clashes in Hadramout; Banks Shut Down"]

Military units associated with the 2nd Military Command in Hadramout governorate
stormed a villa on Al-Siteen Street in the capital city of Mukalla late Monday.
The villa was used by militants to plot terrorist attacks, according to the
state-run Saba News Agency.

The news agency quoted an anonymous source from the command who confirmed they
besieged the villa and fought with the militants, adding that some of the
militants were injured before they fled the scene.

"We have found several explosive devices, detonators, medicine, a computer,
audio systems, military clothes, mobiles and RPGs," said the source.

Clashes have been ongoing in Hadramawt between Al-Qa'idah in the Arabian
Peninsula (AQAP) militants and the military since 23 May, after the militants
entered Seyoun.

Many AQAP members fled from Shabwa and Abyan governorates following a military
offensive against AQAP in the two governorates that began on April 29.

Banks close amid fears of looting

AQAP affiliates stormed several public and private banks in Hadramout and looted
large sums of cash. As a result of the violence, several banks in Hadramout
closed down on Sunday for fear of being attacked.

Ayman Bahomaid, a broadcaster for Seyoun Radio in Mukalla city, said that most
of the banks in Mukalla closed down, particularly following the attack on Yemen
International Bank's branch in Mukalla during the first week of August.

Bahomaid said that many banks stayed closed on Sunday. While some opened on
Tuesday, because of the security situation they may shut down at any time.

Ahmed Bahomaid, director of the Yemen International Bank in Mukalla, told the
Yemen Times they have reduced their working hours from 8:00 AM to 2:00 PM.

"We are not working in the afternoon nowadays because of the clashes and the
attack on the bank's branch in Al-Qatan," Bahomaid said.

AQAP affiliates on August 7 stormed the branches of the Yemen International Bank
and the Cooperative and Agricultural Credit Bank in Al-Qatan district.

"Only Al-Tadhamon private bank is opened in the district but other banks such as
the Yemen International Bank, the Cooperative and Agricultural Credit Bank that
were attacked by Al-Qa'idah affiliates are still closed," said Abdulla Bin
Shihab, a journalist in Al-Qatan.

Reporting from Hadramawt, Hadarim Net news website cited local sources on
Tuesday saying several banks in Hadramout have transferred their foreign
currency to Sana'a for fear of being attacked by AQAP affiliates.

"Closing banks indicates that Hadramout governorate is insecure and indicates
the lack of control by the security forces," said Mustafa Nassr, an economist
and the head of the Studies and Economic Media Centre in Sana'a.

Al-Hamedi, a resident in Mukalla, said the clashes that took place between the
military and AQAP affiliates in the governorate have created widespread chaos.
However, Al-Hamidi asserted that people in Mukalla are trying to cope with the
strife situation.

"People go to work in the morning and the public's movement is almost normal now
despite the clashes. Prices of food items slightly increased because of these
clashes and the lifting of fuel subsidies," he added.

The military has launched an ongoing campaign in Hadramout to pursue AQAP
affiliates following an attack on August 4 allegedly carried out by AQAP on
military patrols in Hadramout that left four soldiers killed and 15 others
wounded.

Source: Yemen Times website, Sanaa, in English 21 Aug 14

LOAD-DATE: August 21, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2014 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              364 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                            i-Independent Print Ltd

                                August 21, 2014
                                 First Edition

Terrorist attack foiled by lorry driver;
The News Matrix The day at a glance NORTHERN IRELAND

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 44 words


Republican dissidents attempted to force a lorry driver to transport a suspected
bomb to a police station in Derry yesterday. Police said the driver abandoned
the vehicle. Two masked gunmen had put a wheelie bin in the lorry, in which they
said they had placed a bomb.

LOAD-DATE: August 20, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: III


                    Copyright 2014 Independent Print Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              365 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                   MailOnline

                      August 21, 2014 Thursday 5:16 PM GMT

Could YOU cut it as a spook? GCHQ challenge tests your ability to stop a cyber
terror attack in the UK

BYLINE: SARAH GRIFFITHS FOR MAILONLINE

SECTION: SCIENCE

LENGTH: 869 words



     ·    GCHQ launched game to test public's ability to stop fictional online
          attack
     ·    Members of the public must  register here  to play the game online
     ·    Players must protect a fictitious aerospace technology company
          threatened by imminent attack from cyber terrorists called The Flag
          Day Associates
     ·    High scorers could take part in secret face-to-face missions
     ·    Previous high flyers have been rewarded with a job at GCHQ and beyond


If you've ever watched a James Bond film and thought you could do better job at
thwarting villains, then this is the game for you.

GCHQ, the British intelligence agency, has set a new challenge to find to find
the best computer hackers in the country - who could one day protect Britain
from real cyber terror attacks.

It has launched an online game to test cyber warriors' abilities to stop a
fictional attack - and top scorers will be invited to take part in secret
face-to-face reconnaissance missions.

Winners of past missions have gone on to work for GCHQ as a real operative,
MailOnline can reveal.

Would-be spooks can register  online for the chance to take part.

In the game, called Assignment: Astute Explorer, they must protect a fictitious
aerospace technology company threatened by imminent attack from imaginary cyber
terrorists called The Flag Day Associates.

As part of the elaborate game, players can watch a 'threat video' posted by The
Flag Day Associates on YouTube - again, mimicking real-life situations that
operatives are faced with.

Hundreds of people have already analysed a made-up hard drive belonging to Ebell
Technologies - an imaginary aerospace and electrical engineering company, which
makes military and civilian aircraft and wind turbines.

In the game, called Assignment: Astute Explorer, they must protect a fictitious
aerospace technology company threatened by imminent attack from cyber terrorists
called The Flag Day Associates.  This video shows a message from the fictional
characters

THE PLOT SO FAR - ASSIGNMENT: ASTUTE EXPLORER

Players of the game must protect a fictitious aerospace technology company
threatened by imminent attack from cyber terrorists called The Flag Day
Associates.

As part of the elaborate game, players can watch a 'threat video' posted by The
Flag Day Associates on YouTube.

Hundreds of people have already analysed a made-up hard drive belonging to Ebell
Technologies - an imaginary aerospace and electrical engineering company, which
makes military and civilian aircraft and wind turbines.

The story goes that Ebell are concerned about the threat of an imminent attack
and have asked GCHQ operatives (the public playing the game) to assess the scale
of the threat.

For this part of the challenge, players must identify vulnerabilities in
snippets of code hidden on the hard drive and explain how they could be
exploited - as well as suggest how they could be fixed.

Now, people are being encouraged to take part in the next part of the Cyber
Security Challenge UK game, which is designed to give members of the public a
chance to experience what it is like to be a GCHQ operative.

The story goes that Ebell is concerned about the threat of an imminent attack
and have asked GCHQ operatives (members public playing the game) to assess the
scale of the threat.

Players must identify vulnerabilities in snippets of code hidden on the hard
drive and explain how they could be exploited - as well as suggest how they
could be fixed.

A source told MailOnline that the task has been devised using technology used by
GCHQ in real life to make the experience as realistic as possible.

High flyers in the task will get the chance to take part in a reconnaissance
meet up at secret locations around the UK.

'In the upcoming face-to-face competition, winners of the GCHQ contest will be
paired into teams to fight a real-time "cyber-attack" on simulated critical
infrastructure,' he said.

They will use laptops to 'hack' into encrypted systems and uncover details about
'people behind the masks' in the imaginary scenario.

https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=OfrKRqmBTUQ]

Past participants took part in a  a realistic cyber-attack on the London Stock
Exchange - in the historic setting of the Cabinet War Rooms in Westminster

Past face-to-face challenges have included teams competing to hack into an
airport's CCTV networks and take control of a remote-controlled military drone.

In another scenario, high-flying hackers had to work together as a team of 42 to
prevent a realistic cyber-attack on the London Stock Exchange - in the historic
setting of the Cabinet War Rooms in Westminster, which were used during World
War Two.

While the competition aims to give lots of people a taste of what it takes to
work for the British intelligence service, it is also a chance for individuals
to attract the attention of employers.

'Astute Explorer is an ingenious game from GCHQ which will not only provide an
enjoyable challenge but will test skills that are in high demand by employers in
this sector,' said Stephanie Daman, CEO of the Cyber Security Challenge.

'I would encourage anyone with an interest in how IT systems and the information
they hold can be protected to sign up and give it a go.'

LOAD-DATE: August 21, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDM


                   Copyright 2014 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              366 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                          The Daily Telegraph (London)

                             August 22, 2014 Friday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

Muslim teenager 'planned attack on London streets';
TERROR ARREST

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 171 words


A MUSLIM teenager planned to carry out an attack on the streets of London or
against a member of the Government, a court was told yesterday.

Brustchom Ziamani, 19, a Muslim convert, was arrested in East London on Tuesday
with a rucksack containing a knife and hammer wrapped in an Islamic flag.

Wearing a black T-shirt featuring the Call of Duty computer game and dark
tracksuit bottoms, Ziamani, of Warner Road, Camberwell, appeared at Westminster
magistrates' court charged with engaging in conduct in preparation of terrorist
acts contrary to section five of the Terrorism Act 2006.

He refused to sit down throughout the brief hearing and stood with his hands in
his pockets.

Mark Dawson, prosecuting, said Ziamani had ideological material in his rucksack.

Mr Dawson also told the court that officers had scoured Ziamani's computer and
had "three disks worth of material" to analyse.

Judge John Zani told the defendant he would be remanded in custody to appear at
the Old Bailey on Sept 12.

There was no application for bail.

LOAD-DATE: August 22, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DTL


                  Copyright 2014 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              367 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring South Asia - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                            August 23, 2014 Saturday

Pakistan interior minister warns of possible terror attacks on protest rallies

LENGTH: 218 words


Text of report published by Pakistani newspaper Dawn website on 22 August

Quetta: One security personnel was killed on Friday after more than 70 militants
entered into the province of Balochistan from neighboring Afghanistan.

Spokesman Frontier Corps Khan Wasey told Dawn.com that more than seventy
terrorists and smugglers intruded into Pakistani territory, specifically
Balochistan's Killa Saifullah district.

"The FC quickly retaliated and forced most of the terrorists to flee back into
Afghanistan," he said.

The spokesman further said that more paramilitary troops were being sent to the
border to control the situation.

"Several terrorists and smugglers were injured during the clash with security
forces," Wasey said.

"They took away their injured into Afghanistan," he said, adding that all
terrorists were pushed back by security forces.

Some FC personnel were also injured during the gun-battle that lasted for more
than three hours at the porous border.

There was no immediate claim of responsibility for the attack.

The incident has come three months after the Afghan forces killed shepherds near
Qamaruddin Karez area of neighboring Zhob district.

The Foreign Office had lodged a protest with Afghan authorities for repeated
violations at the border.

Source: Dunya News TV, Lahore, in Urdu 0000gmt 22 Aug 14

LOAD-DATE: August 23, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2014 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              368 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                   MailOnline

                     August 23, 2014 Saturday 12:01 AM GMT

White House says Foley beheading was a 'terrorist attack' as top Republican
insists Obama threaten ISIS with 'the full capabilities of American might'

BYLINE: DAVID MARTOSKO, U.S. POLITICAL EDITOR, MAILONLINE

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 1507 words



     ·    Deputy national security adviser Ben Rhodes warned ISIS that 'if you
          come after Americans, we're going to come after you wherever you are'
     ·    House Intelligence Committee chair Mike Rogers told MailOnline that
          Obama should warn ISIS that it will feel 'the full capabilities of
          American might'
     ·    A retired Army lieutenant colonel charged that 'this president could
          care less about all the threats we face'
     ·    Earlier, a Pentagon spokesman said DoD is working on' getting
          permission for 'train and equip' rebels to help overthrow Bashar
          al-Assad
     ·    But a Defense spokesman also said military leaders have  not ruled out
          attacking ISIS in Syria - a move that would require Assad's permission


The White House upped the ante Friday on the terrorist Islamic State of Iraq and
al-Sham (ISIS), declaring that the videotaped beheading of American
photojournalist James Foley is 'a terrorist attack' - an admission that brought
a stern ultimatum from a senior Republican in Congress.

'When you see somebody killed in such a horrific way, that represents a
terrorist attack,' Deputy National Security Adviser Ben Rhodes told reporters
during a briefing on Martha's Vineyard.

'That represents a terrorist attack against our country and against an American
citizen.'

Michigan Rep. Mike Rogers, the Republican who chairs the powerful House
Intelligence Committee, told MailOnline after the briefing that it's time for
President Barack Obama to get serious about eradicating ISIS - which half the
American government refers to as ISIL - instead of merely keeping the group at
bay.

SCROLL DOWN FOR VIDEO

'Containment is not an option,' Rogers said. 'We need to build a coalition and
use American military might. The administration has now acknowledged what many
have long known: ISIL is an undeniable threat to the peace and security of the
United States.'

'We should not assume, however, that brutal groups like ISIL fail on their own.
They fail when stronger forces decide to take aggressive and prolonged action in
response to their menacing actions.'

'The president should make clear,' Rogers concluded, 'that ISIL will soon
experience the full capabilities of American might. And I urge the president to
develop a coherent strategy to defeat this enemy, and quickly authorize all
necessary actions to do so.'

The perception of slow-willed inaction is dogging the White House, enabled by
the White House's insistence that Iraq's turmoil will require a political
solution - not a military one.

A Pentagon spokesman hinted on Friday that America's military involvement in
Iraq wouldn't be of the long-term shock-and-awe variety.

'What we are doing in there is in support of Iraq,' Rear Admiral John Kirby told
reporters during a press briefing. 'And ultimately this is a fight that the
Iraqi security forces have got to take on.'

The answer to the ISIS crisis, he said, 'is going to be found in good
governance.'

'Now I know that's not - you know, that doesn't offer everybody the immediacy
that they might want to have with dealing with this threat, this very serious
threat,' Kirby added. 'But ultimately it's defeating the ideology through good
governance. It's removing the unstable conditions, the petri dish, through which
groups like this can foster and grow.'

Rhodes seemed to go further a half-hour later.

'If we see [ISIS] lotting against Americans, [if] we see a threat to the United
States emanating from anywhere, we stand ready to take action against that
threat,' he said.

The fast-flying contradictions between the Pentagon and the White House are
dizzying to some observers, particularly those who want to see a devastating
U.S. response to the vicious killing of American photojournalist James Foley.

'Nero fiddles while Rome burns,' insisted retired Marine Lt. Col. Bill Cowan
during a Fox News interview Thursday night. 'I think this president could care
less about all the threats we face.'

'He's probably gliding along on a path where he hopes nothing will happen to the
United States in the next two years while he's still the president. But the
reality is... we face a threat unlike any threat we've ever faced in our lives,
and this administration seems to be doing nothing about it.'

'Dropping some bombs here and there is nice,' he snarked.

As ISIS continued to conquer and hold territory, American military strategists
are sharpening their focus on the portion of the group's fighters who remain on
the Syrian side of a largely invisible border with Iraq.

Launching a decisive attack on the group in northern Iraq, they fear, will only
serve to isolate ISIS in Syria, where dictator Bashar al-Assad's regime would
likely keep them out of America's reach.

For that reason, the Pentagon has begun to talk openly about the need to
neutralize Assad in order to take him out of the equation, leaving the U.S. free
to finish the job with ISIS.

'We do not have the authorities now to begin a train-and-equip program with the
moderate Syrian opposition,' Kirby explained Friday, referring to the hodgepodge
of Islamists and less ideological factions who have opposed the Syrian strongman
since the spring of 2011.

'We want to have those authorities and we want to have the resources that go
with it,' he said.

'We're still working on that right now,' he added.

The U.S. has not - officially, at least - provided arms to those groups since
many in Congress have fretted about the possibility of military materiel
ultimately aiding terrorist organizations.

American arms and armored vehicles have already fallen into ISIS's hands as the
group seizes hardware originally gifted to the Iraqi army.

Amid the cacophony, another approach to Assad has emerged: Some are now arguing
that America should let bygones be bygones and ask him for permission to conduct
anti-ISIS airstrikes in his country.

General Lord Dannatt, the former Chief of General Staff of the UK's army, said
during a radio interview Friday that 'the Syrian dimension has got to be
addressed. You cannot deal with half a problem.'

'The old saying "my enemy's enemy is my friend" has begun to have some resonance
with our relationship with Iran,' he said. 'I think it's going to have to have
some resonance with our relationship with Assad.'

'Whether it is above the counter or below the counter, a conversation has got to
be held with him. Because if there are going to be any question of air strikes
over Syria airspace it's got to be with the Assad regime's approval.'

UK Foreign Secretary Philip Hammond retorted almost immediately that Britain
won't 'align' with Assad to defeat ISIS.

His country may have a 'common enemy' with the Syrian regime, Hammond said, but
'that doesn't make us friends. It doesn't make us able to trust them, it doesn't
enable use to work with them.'

Television commentator Geraldo Rivera told a Fox News Channel audience Friday
morning that while he wants 'to see a declaration of war against ISIS,' the U.S.
should aim for 'the rehabilitation of the Syrian dictator Bashar Assad and his
Shiite forces who have successfully kept them at bay.'

'The enemy of our enemy is our friend,' Rivera said, echoing Dannatt.

'I want us to rehabilitate the dictator in Damascus. I think he can be forced to
make his own government more inclusive, head to some kind of settlement of the
Syrian civil war and the Syrian army, a fine army, [and] join with American air
power and our Iraqi allies.

'All must make common cause against this dreadful threat to civilization,' he
said of the terror group.

During the Pentagon briefing, Kirby left the door open for American attacks
against ISIS on Syrian soil, reacting to questions about remarks Secretary of
Defense Chuck Hagel made a day earlier.

'The secretary didn't rule anything in or out,' Kirby said.

'We haven't made any decisions with regard to Syria.... I'm not going to speak
about operations that we're not conducting.'

He acknowledged that ISIS poses and 'imminent threat' and has 'grown in
capability, with speed, helped along by resourcing from some of their own
criminal activity, as well as donations and ransoms.... We've all been watching
this.'

But his emphasis remained on U.S. 'support' missions intended to ease the tasks
in front of Iraqi and Kurdish Peshmerga forces, on international
coalition-building, and on hopes for an 'inclusive' Baghdad government that
would no longer alienate Iraq's Sunni minority.

With a hat-tip toward other nations that have taken part in missions to date, he
added that 'we have been encouraged by the assistance of international partners
like the UK.'

'And I also want to take the opportunity today to thank Albania. Albania has now
come forward and offered to conduct resupply missions with Kurdish forces, which
again we're very grateful for.'

The George W. Bush administration was universally mocked in 2003 when it boasted
that Poland had joined the the United Kingdom and Australia as the only nations
offering military support duringand after the U.S. invasion.

Other nations like the Marshall Islands and Micronesia,which don't have standing
armies, were also singled out for praise by the Bush White House.

LOAD-DATE: August 23, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDM


                   Copyright 2014 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              369 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                      August 23, 2014 Saturday 7:43 AM GMT

James Foley murder 'terrorist attack' against US, White House says;
When one of our own is killed in such a way, we view it as a terrorist attack on
our country, says deputy national security advisor Ben Rhodes

BYLINE: By AFP

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 346 words


The murder of American journalist James Foley by jihadist militants in Syria was
a "terrorist attack" against the United States, the White House said Friday.

"When you see somebody killed in such a horrific way, that represents a
terrorist attack - that represents a terrorist attack against our country and
against an American citizen," deputy national security advisor Ben Rhodes said.

Mr Rhodes, speaking three days after Islamic extremists released a video of
Foley's beheading, said the execution "represented an affront - an attack not
just him, but he's an American, and we see that as an attack on our country when
one of our own is killed like that."

Mr Rhodes also said that paying ransom to free hostages is "not the right
policy."

Washington "will not provide funds for terrorist organisms," Mr Rhodes said,
confirming a long-standing Washington policy amid claims from Islamic State
jihadists that other countries had paid to have their nationals freed.

"We feel very strongly that it is not the right policy for governments to
support the payment of ransom to terrorist organizations.

"In the long run ... it provides additional funding to these terrorist
organizations, which allows them to expand their operations."

Washington believes that by paying ransom "it only creates perverse incentives
for those terrorist organizations going forward, and a source of funding. And we
want to cut off and choke off their sources of funding."

He added there was "a small number" of US hostages - without giving specific
figures - being held in Syria, "and we're going to continue to do whatever we
can to try to bring them home."

On Thursday, US defence leaders said that the IS poses a greater danger than a
conventional "terrorist group" and is pursuing a vision that could radically
alter the face of the Middle East.

The Isil militants could be contained and eventually defeated by local forces
backed by the United States, but the Sunni population in both Syria and Iraq
would need to reject the group, Defence Secretary Chuck Hagel and General Martin
Dempsey told reporters.

LOAD-DATE: August 23, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTNS


                  Copyright 2014 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              370 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                    Scotsman

                             August 24, 2014 Sunday

Syria: Scots student calls for UK terror attacks

BYLINE: Alastair Dalton

LENGTH: 260  words


A SCOTTISH student who moved to Syria has used Twitter to call for terrorist
attacks in Britain, it was reported yesterday.

The medical student, who is said to have left last November to become a "jihadi
bride", referred to the murder of a soldier in London and two attacks in the
United States. She is believed to be in her early 20s and from Glasgow.

Using the Twitter name  @UmmLayth_, she wrote: "If you cannot make it to the
battlefield, then bring the battlefield to yourself. Be sincere and be a Mujahid
wherever you may be."

In another Tweet, sent in June, she wrote: "Follow the examples of your Brothers
from Woolwich, Texas and Boston etc."

Soldier Lee Rigby was hacked to death in London last summer, while a soldier
killed three others and himself at a US army base in Texas in April, and three
people were killed in the Boston Marathon bombing in April last year.

News that the woman was from Scotland came days after a masked man with a London
accent was seen in a video of the killing of US journalist James Foley.

The tweeter, believed to be a former diagnostic radiography student, posted on
Thursday: "Could someone pls make Hijrah [journey] from Scotland already and
bring me Irn-Bru." She has also said her family, from Pakistan, did not support
her decision to go to Syria.

In another tweet, she quoted former al-Qaeda terrorist Sheikh Abu Yahya Al-Libi:
"Whoever carries out an individual operation (in USA/UK/FRANCE etc) against any
country that is openly waging a war against Muslims and oppressing them...is in
fact participating in the Jihad."

LOAD-DATE: August 24, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: STTS


                       Copyright 2014 Johnston Press Plc
                              All Rights Reserved

                              371 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                                  Daily Mirror

                             August 25, 2014 Monday
                                   Edition 1;
                                Northern Ireland

THE HIT LIST;
SPOOKS HOURS FROM NAMING JIHADI JOHN MI5 ready to swoop on Foley killer as spies
close in on British IS fighters Terrorists could plan huge attack at Cardiff
Nato summit, expert says

BYLINE: DAVID COLLINS

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 10,11

LENGTH: 1479 words


SPY chiefs are just hours from unmasking James Foley's killer after scouring a
list of Brit fanatics thought to be fighting in Syria.

MI5 is hunting the US journalist's masked executioner - known as Jihadi John -
and has narrowed down a shortlist of suspects to "a few names".

The British killer, who has a London accent, was shown beheading James, 40, in a
gruesome video released by the Islamic State militant group last week.

Yesterday there were reports intelligence experts already knew who he www.was.UK
Ambassador to the US, Sir Peter Westmacott, said "we are close" and added:
"We're putting a lot into it."

Another security source said: "A shortlist of around 20 names of British-born IS
fighters has been narrowed down to the most likely candidate. There is a very
good chance that this individual is the man the media are calling John."

Elite members of the SAS are now preparing to snatch him out of Syria in a
top-secret mission.

It came amid warnings IS could be plotting a "spectacular" attack on Britain
when the world's leaders meet at the Nato summit in Cardiff next month.

Former Intelligence and Security Committee chairman Kim Howells said there was
"no question" jihadists would be planning something.

He said: "Like their predecessors al-Qaeda they like mounting spectaculars.

This gathering of heads of state is one of the biggest of any kind of event you
can imagine, especially with the American president being there.

"It will be a target, there is no question about it, that is why the security
meas-ures taken are so intense." As the net began to close on James' killer,
experts were using sophisticated voice-recognition technology to identify him.

He was heard spewing threats at the West in the beheading video and is said to
be part of a group of IS killers dubbed The Beatles because of their British
accents.

One key suspect is Abdel-Majed Abdel Bary, 23, who left his family's £1million
home in West London last year.

He recently put a picture online of himself holding a severed head.

Others on the investigators' radar include student Amer Deghayes, 20, of
Brighton, who flew out to Syria in October and two Cardiff-born brothers Aseel
and Nasser Muthana, aged 17 and 20.

Special forces have launched hi-tech operations in Syria and Iraq in an attempt
to capture British fighters and establish links to Jihadi John.

Alongside Kurdish units fighting IS, thi they have separated into four-man
teams. Their intelligence is being fed to a special SAS snatch squad set up to
capture the jihadists and release the remaining hostages.

It was yesterday revealed £24million had been paid to IS captors in exchange for
the release of 11 hostages last year.

Payments were made by at least four European countries, which goes against the
American and UK policy of not negotiating with terrorists.

From the start of victim James' kidnap ordeal, the Beatles militants were said
to have been "interested in money" and the week before he was beheaded they
demanded an £80million ransom.

The group is feared to have been involved in the seizure of several Westerners
and bragged to prisoners about how much cash they were making from it. Their
leader was not said to be James' left-handed murderer John, but a man called
George, who uses the name Abu Muhareb - or fighter in Arabic.

Meanwhile, CCTV footage has emerged reportedly showing the moment five British
jihadists strolled through the departure lounge of Gatwick Airport on their way
to fight in Syria.

It claims to show the men, from Portsmouth, Hants, leaving for Turkey early on
October 8. They booked a return journey but instead crossed the border into
Syria, where they joined militants.

One of the men is said to be 31-yearold Mashadur Choudhury, who returned just
weeks later and in May became the first Brit to be convicted of a terror offence
over the Syrian conflict.

At his 12-day trial, Kingston crown court, in South West London, was shown
social media evidence of him talking about dying a martyr's death.

More than 500 Brits have enlisted with jihadist groups in Syria and Iraq.

Foreign Secretary Philip Hammond admitted we faced a severe threat of attack
from IS, also called ISIS and ISIL.

He said: "ISIL are turning a swathe of Iraq and Syria into a terrorist state as
a base for launching attacks on the West.

"Unless they are stopped, sooner or later they will seek to strike us on British
soil." It came as Home Secretary Theresa May was ridiculed yesterday for plans
to clamp down on terror suspects with Asbo-style court orders.

New rules would make it a criminal offence for certain groups to spread extreme
views. But the Tories' ex-shadow home secretary David Davis said: "Asbos for
terrorists? It is hard to imagine IS killers quaking in their boots over that."

Home Affairs select committee chairman Keith Vaz said the proposals were "too
little too late" and Labour's Yvette Cooper said "more must be done" to take
control of our borders.

Up to 24 American counter-terror officers are due to arrive in London and the
Midlands amid growing concerns from the US that Britain is not doing enough to
stem the flow of jihadists.

They will liaise with the Metropolitan Police's secretive SO15 counter-terrorism
command and MI5 to carry out background work on UK-based militants. But the plan
is also to have US officers "attached" to regional counter-terrorism units in
cities such as Birmingham.

Yesterday another American journalist who was kidnapped entering Syria almost
two years ago was freed.

Peter Theo Curtis, of Boston, Massachusetts, was handed over to UN
representatives, Al Jazeera reported. Meanwhile, a mass of remembrance was being
held in the United States for tragic photo journalist James.

US President Barack Obama called him a hero for telling the stories of oppressed
people in war-torn regions such as Syria and Libya.

The mass yesterday was set in James' home town church, Our Lady of the Holy
Rosary, in Rochester, New Hampshire.

david.collins@mirror.co.uk

Abu Abdullah Al-Britani, 32, from Portsmouth

Known only by his pseudonym, he is one of six men to arrive in Syria from
Portsmouth.

Abu has actively recruited for young Britons to travel to Iraq and Syria. His
body frame, eyes and skin colour appear to be similar to that of John.

Abu has posted several chilling tweets glorifying the bloody fighting.

Aine Davis, 30, from London A former drug dealer who is said to have converted
to Islam aged 15 following stints in a young offenders' institute. Nicknamed
Biggz, he left the country last year to fight for Islamic State in war-torn
Syria.

Davis's wife, Amal El-Wahabi, 27, of Harlesden, London, has been convicted of
funding terrorism.

Police are investigating his links to extremists in London, however he is not
thought to be senior enough within IS to appear in video.

Aseel Muthana, 17 and brother Nasser, both from Cardiff Muthana left Britain in
February to join his older brother Nasser in the country and says he has no
plans to return.

A video, thought to be filmed in Syria, showing Aseel's brother Nasser Muthana
and Reyaad Khan, both 20 and from Cardiff, appeared online two weeks ago.

The pair, who appeared along with a man from Aberdeen, urge others to join the
IS (the Islamic State) to fight.

Amer Deghayes, 20, from Brighton The student flew to Syria in October with his
two brothers. His long face and tall figure have linked him to John.

He joined the "holy war" in Syria against their father's wishes after contact
with jihadists on social media.

His older brother Abdullah joined him in January but was killed earlier this
year.

Amer appeared on Newsnight via a video link saying he "couldn't care less" if he
was regarded as a terrorist.

Isl Jabbar, 22, from London Worked as a trainee at House of Fraser, then left
the UK to fight with the "Bin Laden Brigade" in Syria.

He and John share the same skin tone and London background.

Abdel-Majed Abdel Bary, 23, from London An ex-rapper and son of an supposed
al-Qaeda bomber, Bary is said to have a similar height and shape to John.

However experts say his voice doesn't match when compared with the video. He is
also apparently right handed - whereas John is possibly left-handed.

Junaid Hussain, 20, from Birmingham Also called Abu Hussain al-Britani, Hussain
was jailed for six months in 2012 for stealing information from Tony Blair.

He has the same eyes as John but a Birmingham, rather than a London accent.

Razul Islam, 21, from London Older brother Shajul Islam was accused of
kidnapping Western journalists in Syria.

However the trial collapsed and he was later released from prison where he was
on remand. Investigators are grilling Shajul on anything he may know about
Foley's execution.

Unless they are stopped, sooner or later they will seek to strike us on British
soil TORY FOREIGN SECRETARY HAMMOND on jihadist risk

The summit in Cardiff will be a target, no question about it EXPERT HOWELLS ON
THREAT TO NATO EVENT

LOAD-DATE: August 25, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: SUSPECT Abdel-Majed Abdel Bary left UK last year

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DMR


                            Copyright 2014 MGN Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              372 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                               Independent.co.uk

                       August 25, 2014 Monday 7:38 PM GMT

Israel-Gaza conflict: Eight Palestinians killed in air strikes;
Gazans said they received new messages on mobile phones and landlines saying
Israel would target any house used to launch terror attacks'

BYLINE: Agency

SECTION: FRONTPAGE

LENGTH: 148 words


Israeli air strikes killed at least eight Palestinians in the Gaza Strip and
also hit a mosque in Beit Hanoun on Monday. Meanwhile, militants and kept up
rocket fire on Israel, as Egypt pressed on with efforts to broker a truce.

Gazans said they received new messages on mobile phones and landlines saying
Israel would target any house used to launch "terror attacks" and telling
civilians to leave areas used by militants.

Israeli aircraft attacked four homes in the Gaza town of Beit Lahiya, near the
Israeli border, killing two women and a girl, witnesses and health officials
said.

Locals told Reuters a member of the Hamas militant group that dominates Gaza
lived in one of the dwellings. Separate attacks elsewhere in the Gaza Strip
killed two other Palestinians, said officials.

Militants launched about 40 rockets at southern Israel on Monday, causing no
casualties, the army said.

Reuters

LOAD-DATE: August 25, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBI


           Copyright 2014 Independent Digital News and Media Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              373 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                   MailOnline

                      August 25, 2014 Monday 10:03 AM GMT

Islamic State jihadists could be plotting terror attack on Cardiff Nato summit,
former Foreign Office minister claims

BYLINE: MARTIN ROBINSON FOR MAILONLINE

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 500 words



     ·    Dr Kim Howells believes home grown terrorists could target world
          leaders
     ·    Barack Obama, David Cameron and others will meet on September 4 and 5
     ·    Barriers and fences now surround Celtic Manor and Cardiff landmarks
     ·    'It will be a target, there is no question about it, that is why the
          security measures taken are so intense,' Dr Howells has said
     ·    Three young extremists from Cardiff have fled to Syria to fight with
          IS


Home grown Islamic State terrorists could be plotting a 'spectacular' attack on
the upcoming Nato summit in Britain, a former foreign office minister has said.

Kim Howells, who served under Tony Blair and Gordon Brown, fears jihadists may
be planning to attack Barack Obama, David Cameron and other world leaders when
they meet in Wales on September 4 and 5.

Security barriers and fences to stop car bombs have been put up around the
Celtic Manor resort where meetings will be held and also in the centre of
Cardiff where leaders will spend an evening.

Dr Howells warned that there was 'no question' terrorist organisations would be
planning an atrocity but admitted there was no 'general intelligence' an attack
was imminent.

He said: 'It will be a target, there is no question about it, that is why the
security measures taken are so intense.

'With a Nato summit there is going to be a raised expectation or raised
awareness that there might be an attack - that is why all the special measures
have been taken.

'They might try and coordinate something with the Nato summit targeting
somewhere there are a lot of infidels, as they see them.

'Like their predecessors Al Qaeda they like mounting spectaculars so I would
imagine the work of the security services is pretty intense now.'

Dr Howells said an 'added element' of the security risk is that three Cardiff
men have fled to Syria to fight with IS, also known as ISIS and ISIL, and are
believed to have joined the terrorist organisation.

Terror suspects Nasser Muthana, Aseel Muthana and Reyaad Khan have detailed
knowledge of the Welsh capital where the world leaders will be attending a
lavish dinner.

Dr Howells claimed Islamic State could target the summit which is taking place
in Newport and Cardiff at the start of September.

The former Labour MP for Pontypridd, South Wales, said terrorists may also be
planning something similar to the 7/7 bombings in London.

Falklands hero Simon Weston, who lives in Cardiff, echoed the warnings.

He said: 'We've got these youngsters from Cardiff who have gone to join the
Islamic movement.

'That means they would not have been acting on their own at this end. There are
others who have similar points of view.

'We run a real risk of something happening.'

'Everyone knows how difficult it is to get to the people they want to affect.

'But we have got to be right 100 per cent of the time. They have only got to be
right once.That's the big difficulty for us.'

Assistant Chief Constable Chris Armitt - the Merseyside police officer
overseeing security at the gathering - warned Isis were a 'very real threat.'

LOAD-DATE: August 25, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDM


                   Copyright 2014 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              374 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                       BBC Monitoring Europe - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                            August 26, 2014 Tuesday

Turkey condemns terrorist attack on mosque in Iraq

LENGTH: 285 words


Text of report in English by Turkish newspaper Today's Zaman website on 25
August

The Foreign Ministry said in a written statement on Sunday that Turkey strongly
condemns a terrorist attack on a Sunni mosque in Iraq, claiming it aims to
create sectarian conflict in the country.

The statement said Turkey believes that Iraqi people and authorities will not be
a part of this game, adding that it calls on all Iraqis to stand united and act
with restraint.

Militants targeted a Sunni mosque in a province next to the Iraqi capital during
weekly prayers on Friday, killing at least 68 people and wounding over 50,
officials said.

Expressing condolences to the families of the victims, Turkey said it will
continue to support the Iraqi people.

An army officer and a police officer said a suicide bomber broke into the Musab
bin Omair Mosque in the Imam Wais village of Diyala province, some 120
kilometres (75 miles) northeast of Baghdad, detonated his explosives and was
followed by gunmen who rushed in and opened fire on worshippers.

The officials said that fighters with the Islamic State of Iraq and the Levant
(ISIL), have been trying to convince members of two prominent local Sunni tribes
- the Oal-Waisi and al-Jabour - to join them, but they have thus far refused.

Since early this year, Iraq has been facing an onslaught from the extremist ISIL
group and allied Sunni militants in much of the country's north and west. The
crisis has worsened since June as the militant fighters swept through new towns
in the north, killing hundreds of people and displacing hundreds of thousands,
mainly members of the minority Christian and Yazidi religious communities.

Source: Zaman website, Istanbul, in English 25 Aug 14

LOAD-DATE: August 26, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2014 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              375 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                       BBC Monitoring Africa - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                           August 27, 2014 Wednesday

Djibouti government says airport shoot-out not terror attack

LENGTH: 175 words


Foreign Affairs Minister for Djibouti Muhammad Ali Yusuf has confirmed that the
shooting incident on Monday afternoon at the airport was not a terror attack,
private Dhacdo website reported on 27 August.

He said that this incident was not in any way connected to the suicide bombing
on 24 May in Djibouti adding that a member of the republican guard had targeted
the president's physician Dr Idris Abdi Galab due to a personal dispute.

The said guard is currently under detention and states that his reasons for
targeting the doctor are personal and that the president, ministers were not in
danger, the source states.

He added that the government of Djibouti will soon issue a full statement on the
shooting incident by the republican guard who injured three people including the
doctor who is in critical condition.

This is the first time such an incident has occurred at the Djibouti airport,
leading to a great deal of suspicion among the leadership and people of
Djibouti, says the source.

Source: Dhacdo.com website, Hargeysa, in Somali 27 Aug 14

LOAD-DATE: August 27, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2014 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              376 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                             Paisley Daily Express

                            August 28, 2014 Thursday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

Terror on the way to school;
Vicious attacker leaves screaming schoolgirl covered in blood ; ORDEAL ; Brute
leaves screaming schoolgirl covered in blood

BYLINE: Chris Taylor

SECTION: NEWS; FRONT PAGE; Pg. 1,5

LENGTH: 473 words


Police were yesterday hunting a violent thug who battered a 14-year-old girl on
a cycle path as she made her way to school.

The young victim was left covered in blood following the frightening attack,
which took place near Maxwellton Street, Paisley.

She had been making her way to lessons at nearby Castlehead High when the yob
pounced.

The schoolgirl was punched to the ground and had to be taken to hospital for
treatment to a wound above her eye.

Violet Armstrong, who lives in a nearby block of flats, heard the girl's
"blood-curdling" screams as the attack took place.

She told the Paisley Daily Express: "I knew straight away this wasn't someone
mucking about. It was a scream of pure horror.

"I was in my back bedroom, laying out my clothes for the day, when I heard the
girl scream. It was terrifying.

"I looked out and saw the lassie staggering about before she fell to the ground.
I phoned the police immediately."

The attack took place at around 8.20am yesterday and the victim's cries also
alerted an off-duty policeman, who rushed to help her.

The third year pupil was taken to the Royal Alexandra Hospital and was later
interviewed by police to establish exactly what had happened.

Retired cleaner Violet, 70, added: "The poor girl was covered in blood. She had
a cut above her eye and the blood was all over her face and dripping onto her
jacket and school uniform.

"She just kept asking 'what if he comes back?' "I really hope the police catch
whoever did this to her."

Cops have said there was no sexual element to the crime and it's understood
nothing was stolen from the girl.

The attacker, who ran off in the direction of Lounsdale Road, is described as in
his 20s, with short brown hair, clean shaven and with a thin face.

He was wearing a black jacket and blue jeans at the time.

Chief Inspector Bob Kennedy said: "Clearly, this was a despicable act and we are
doing everything we can to identify the individual responsible.

"We have been stepping up patrols in and around the area and would like to
reassure the public we are doing everything we can to apprehend this man.

"Police are also linking up with schools and the education department and we
would like to assure both schoolchildren and their parents that our officers are
working in partnership with the education authorities."

Teachers at Castlehead High have urged pupils to take care as they make their
way to and from lessons.

Text messages have also been sent to parents to inform them of yesterday's
attack.

A Renfrewshire Council spokesman : "I can confirm that a third year pupil from
Castlehead High was assaulted.

"The school has informed parents and advised pupils to avoid using the cycle
path as they walk to school."

Anyone who has information about the attack is asked to call Paisley Police
Office on 101.

Scene An aerial shot of the path where the girl was attacked

LOAD-DATE: August 28, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Probe The area of the cycle path where the attack took place was sealed
off by police

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: PDE


                           Copyright 2014 MGN Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              377 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                       BBC Monitoring Africa - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                             August 29, 2014 Friday

New African force formed to deal with terror attacks, political conflicts

LENGTH: 298 words


Text of report entitled " New African force to quell conflicts" published by
Kenyan privately-owned newspaper Daily Nation website on 29 August

A special force has been formed to help end conflicts across African countries.

The African Standby Force formed by the African Union Peace and Security Council
will start work in December 2015 and will intervene in any grave circumstances.

According to deputy chairperson of the African Union Commission Erastus Mwencha,
the commission is expediting the operationalisation of the rapid deployment
unit.

"The force will help member states to deal with terrorist attacks and political
conflicts as well as in peace missions," Mr Mwencha said.

He said the formation of the force comes at a time when Africa continues to face
hunger, genocide and crimes against humanity, extremism and war crimes.

African states are expected to contribute troops to the squad, which will be
placed in different locations on the continent to tackle emergencies and
insurgencies.

He was speaking to a delegation of African intelligence chiefs who are meeting
in Nairobi under the auspices of the Committee of Intelligence and Security
Services of Africa.

The meeting attracted more than 500 delegates from 52 African states and are
discussing how to enhance intelligence cooperation and coordination at the wake
of radicalisation and extremism in the continent.

The meeting was opened by Deputy President William Ruto, who urged African heads
of intelligence to cooperate and share intelligence so that they can fight
terrorism together.

"War, radicalisation and terrorism are our common enemy; when they affect one
country, the whole continent suffers. We cannot watch these sabotage our
economic growth," Mr Ruto said.

Source: Daily Nation website, Nairobi, in English 29 Aug 14

LOAD-DATE: August 29, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2014 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              378 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                               dailyrecord.co.uk

                      August 29, 2014 Friday 11:23 PM GMT

Jihadis war on Britain: Terror attack now 'highly likely' as government raise
security risk to 'severe';
HOME Secretary Theresa May ramps up state of alert as she reveals security
chiefs expect Islamic extremist group ISIS to target the UK.

BYLINE: By dailyrecord

SECTION: NEWS,UK & WORLD

LENGTH: 499 words


BRITAIN is facing a huge terror threat from ISIS Jihadis with an attack by the
extremists now "highly likely", security chiefs warned yesterday.

Theresa May said the Joint Terrorism Analysis Centre had raised the risk from
"substantial" to "severe".

The Home Secretary added: "That means a terrorist attack is highly likely but
there is no intelligence to suggest that an attack is imminent."

The warning came as David Cameron said that ISIS pose an even greater terror
threat than al-Qaeda.

The Prime Minister, who revealed that security was being ramped up, added: "In
Afghanistan the Taliban were prepared to play host to al-Qaeda.

"With ISIS, we're facing a terrorist organisation not being hosted in a country
but seeking to establish and then violently expand its own terrorist state.

"With designs on expanding to Jordan, Lebanon, right up to the Turkish border,
we could be facing a terrorist state on the shores of the Mediterranean and
bordering a Nato member."

The escalation of the threat means security at the Ryder Cup, which begins at
Gleneagles on September 26, is set to be cranked up.

A huge security operation has already been planned for golf's showpiece event
between Europe and the US, which is seen as an obvious target for terrorists.

Hundreds of police officers have already been assigned to the event and more may
now be drafted in.

Meanwhile, Cameron will unveil anti-terror measures - including laws making it
easier to take away passports from those who go to fight in Syria and Iraq - on
Monday.

The change in terror threat comes after a British Jihadi appeared in the
execution video of US journalist James Foley last week.

Cameron said that the "barbaric" murder and beheading of Foley was a reminder
the ISIS threat cannot be ignored. Security chiefs say that 500 Britons are
fighting with the fanatics and at least 250 hardened Jihadis have already
returned.

Police and intelligence chiefs have long warned that the Government were wrong
to scrap control orders which placed terror suspects under a form of house
arrest.

They were replaced with weaker Terrorism Prevention and Investigation Measures,
Tpims, which don't let courts decide where suspects live.

Security chiefs have also demanded powers to let them keep tabs on mobile phone
and internet use.

A No.10 source admitted that ministers had only started considering new measures
when the terror threat level was raised.

Cameron said: "We have to listen carefully to the security and the intelligence
officers.

"It is becoming clear that there are some gaps in our armoury and we need to
strengthen them.

"We need to do more to stop people travelling, to stop those who do go from
returning and to deal decisively with those who are already here."

The warning comes amid mounting fears about an attack from British Jihadis
travelling to Iraq and Syria to learn deadly terrorist "tradecraft".

Sir Bernard Hogan-Howe, the UK's most senior police officer, said Scotland Yard
were prepared for an influx of homegrown extremists.

LOAD-DATE: September 9, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDAR


                      Copyright 2014 Trinity Mirror, Plc.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              379 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                               dailyrecord.co.uk

                       August 29, 2014 Friday 3:13 PM GMT

UK terror threat level raised from 'substantial' to 'severe', Theresa May warns;

THIS indicates that a terrorist attack is "highly likely", although the Home
Secretary stressed that there is no information to suggest an attack is
imminent.

BYLINE: By dailyrecord

SECTION: NEWS,UK & WORLD

LENGTH: 148 words


THE terror threat to the UK has been raised from substantial to severe, Home
Secretary Theresa May has announced.

This means that a terrorist attack is "highly likely", although Mrs May stressed
that there is no information to suggest an attack is imminent.

She said: "The Joint Terrorism Analysis Centre (JTAC) is responsible for setting
the national threat level. That informs the decisions of security professionals
across the public and private sectors about the appropriate level of security in
place across the United Kingdom.

"JTAC's judgements about that threat level are made on the basis of the very
latest intelligence and are independent of ministers.

"JTAC has today raised the threat level to the UK from international terrorism
from SUBSTANTIAL to SEVERE. That means that a terrorist attack is highly likely,
but there is no intelligence to suggest that an attack is imminent."

LOAD-DATE: September 9, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDAR


                      Copyright 2014 Trinity Mirror, Plc.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              380 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                         The Evening Standard (London)

                             August 29, 2014 Friday
                                   Edition 3;
                                National Edition

britain's terror alert stepped up;
ATTACK BY JIHADI FIGHTERS RETURNING HOME NOW 'HIGHLY LIKELY' ; THERESA MAY CALLS
ON PUBLIC TO BE VIGILANT

BYLINE: Nicholas Cecil

SECTION: NEWS; FRONT PAGE; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 259 words


BRITAIN'S terror threat level was dramatically raised to severe today amid fears
that UK jihadists returning from Iraq and Syria could launch attacks.

The severe warning means an attack is "highly likely", rather than the earlier
assessment of substantial where a terror strike is "a strong possibility". Home
Secretary Theresa May stressed there was no intelligence to suggest an imminent
attack.

After the decision by Britain's Joint Terrorism Analysis Centre, she added: "The
increase in the threat level is related to developments in Syria and Iraq, where
terrorist groups are planning attacks against the West.

"Some of those plots are likely to involve foreign fighters who have travelled
there from the UK and Europe to take part in those conflicts. We face a real and
serious threat in the UK from international terrorism. I urge the public to
remain vigilant and report any suspicious activity to the police."

Scotland Yard Commissioner Sir Bernard Hogan-Howe warned days ago that close to
200 potentially "militarised" fighters are back in London. He also proposed UK
jihadists have their passports revoked to stop them returning here.

Islamic State have slaughtered thousands as they seized control of swathes of
Syria and Iraq. They also beheaded US journalist James Foley, 40, in revenge for
US air strikes in Iraq to stop the killings. Mr Foley and other hostages were
guarded by a group of British jihadists, known as "The Beatles", with one -
"John"- featuring in the video of his killing.

isis fighters film 'message in blood' FULL STORY PAGE 8

LOAD-DATE: September 5, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: EST


                    Copyright 2014 Evening Standard Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              381 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                   MailOnline

                       August 29, 2014 Friday 3:11 PM GMT

Terror attack on the UK now 'highly likely' warns David Cameron as threat level
raised to 'severe'

BYLINE: TOM MCTAGUE, MAILONLINE DEPUTY POLITICAL EDITOR

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 697 words



     ·    PM says ISIS poses 'greater threat to security than we have known
          before'
     ·    He added there would be new laws to make it easier to remove passports
     ·    Threat level raised amid fears over UK jihadis returning from Iraq and
          Syria
     ·    Theresa May says there's no evidence to suggest that an attack is
          imminent
     ·    Up to 600 British extremists have travelled to the Middle East to join
          ISIS
     ·    Around 300 UK-linked terrorists are thought to have returned to
          Britain


A terror attack on the UK is now 'highly likely', David Cameron said today.

The Prime Minister's remarks came after the official threat level was raised
from substantial to severe - the second highest level - amid growing fears over
returning extremists fighting for ISIS in the Middle East.

Mr Cameron said ISIS now posed a 'greater and deeper threat to our security than
we have known before'.

He also announced that new laws will be passed to make it easier to remove
people's passports where there are concerns they will travel to Iraq or Syria to
join ISIS.

The Prime Minister's remarks came after the Home Secretary Theresa May stressed
that there is no information to suggest an attack is imminent, but warned: 'We
face a real and serious threat in the UK from international terrorism.'

FIVE TERROR THREAT LEVELS

Critical - an attack is expected imminently

Severe - an attack is highly likely

Substantial - an attack is a strong possibility

Moderate - an attack is possible but not likely

Low - an attack is unlikely

The Home Secretary said: 'The Joint Terrorism Analysis Centre (JTAC) is
responsible for setting the national threat level.

'That informs the decisions of security professionals across the public and
private sectors about the appropriate level of security in place across the
United Kingdom.

'JTAC's judgements about that threat level are made on the basis of the very
latest intelligence and are independent of ministers.

'JTAC has today raised the threat level to the UK from international terrorism
from "substantial" to "severe".

'That means that a terrorist attack is highly likely, but there is no
intelligence to suggest that an attack is imminent.'

It is understood that there is no intelligence relating to any specific threat
to the forthcoming Nato summit.

The decision comes against a backdrop of increasing concern about hundreds of
aspiring British jihadis travelling to Iraq and Syria to learn terrorist
'tradecraft', and the murder of American journalist James Foley by an apparently
English killer.

Sir Bernard Hogan-Howe, the UK's most senior police officer, said Scotland Yard
is prepared for an influx in case a swathe of homegrown extremists decide to
return at the same time.

In a statement released today, Mrs May said: 'The increase in the threat level
is related to developments in Syria and Iraq where terrorist groups are planning
attacks against the West.

'Some of those plots are likely to involve foreign fighters who have travelled
there from the UK and Europe to take part in those conflicts.

'The first and most important duty of government is the protection of the
British people.

'We have already taken steps to improve our powers and increase our capabilities
for dealing with the developing terrorist threats we face.

'That process will continue and the British public should be in no doubt that we
will take the strongest possible action to protect our national security.

'We face a real and serious threat in the UK from international terrorism. I
would urge the public to remain vigilant and to report any suspicious activity
to the police.'

National Policing Lead for Counter-Terrorism Assistant Commissioner Mark Rowley
added: 'We need communities and families to bring to our attention anyone they
perceive may be vulnerable, a danger or escalating towards terrorism. Anyone
with information is urged to contact the Anti-Terrorist Hotline on 0800 789 321.

'From this afternoon we will begin to increase our levels of visible patrols and
implement other security and protection measures. We will also build on existing
community relations to provide reassurance and seek their support and assistance
in keeping the UK safe.'

LOAD-DATE: August 29, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDM


                   Copyright 2014 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              382 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                   MailOnline

                       August 29, 2014 Friday 2:59 PM GMT

Terror attack on the UK now 'highly likely' warns Home Secretary Theresa May as
threat level raised to 'severe'

BYLINE: TOM MCTAGUE, MAILONLINE DEPUTY POLITICAL EDITOR

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 621 words



     ·    Threat level raised amid fears over UK jihadis returning from Iraq and
          Syria
     ·    Mrs May said there is no information to suggest that an attack is
          imminent
     ·    Up to 600 British extremists have travelled to the Middle East to join
          ISIS
     ·    Around 300 UK-linked terrorists are thought to have returned to
          Britain
     ·    David Cameron said ISIS poses a 'greater and deeper threat to our
          security than we have known before'


A terror attack on the UK is now 'highly likely', Theresa May announced today.

The Home Secretary's remarks came after the official threat level was raised
from substantial to severe - the second highest level.

Mrs May stressed that there is no information to suggest an attack is imminent,
but warned: 'We face a real and serious threat in the UK from international
terrorism.'

FIVE TERROR THREAT LEVELS

Critical - an attack is expected imminently

Severe - an attack is highly likely

Substantial - an attack is a strong possibility

Moderate - an attack is possible but not likely

Low - an attack is unlikely

The Home Secretary said: 'The Joint Terrorism Analysis Centre (JTAC) is
responsible for setting the national threat level.

'That informs the decisions of security professionals across the public and
private sectors about the appropriate level of security in place across the
United Kingdom.

'JTAC's judgements about that threat level are made on the basis of the very
latest intelligence and are independent of ministers.

'JTAC has today raised the threat level to the UK from international terrorism
from "substantial" to "severe".

'That means that a terrorist attack is highly likely, but there is no
intelligence to suggest that an attack is imminent.'

It is understood that there is no intelligence relating to any specific threat
to the forthcoming Nato summit.

The decision comes against a backdrop of increasing concern about hundreds of
aspiring British jihadis travelling to Iraq and Syria to learn terrorist
'tradecraft', and the murder of American journalist James Foley by an apparently
English killer.

Sir Bernard Hogan-Howe, the UK's most senior police officer, said Scotland Yard
is prepared for an influx in case a swathe of homegrown extremists decide to
return at the same time.

In a statement released today, Mrs May said: 'The increase in the threat level
is related to developments in Syria and Iraq where terrorist groups are planning
attacks against the West.

'Some of those plots are likely to involve foreign fighters who have travelled
there from the UK and Europe to take part in those conflicts.

'The first and most important duty of government is the protection of the
British people.

'We have already taken steps to improve our powers and increase our capabilities
for dealing with the developing terrorist threats we face.

'That process will continue and the British public should be in no doubt that we
will take the strongest possible action to protect our national security.

'We face a real and serious threat in the UK from international terrorism. I
would urge the public to remain vigilant and to report any suspicious activity
to the police.'

National Policing Lead for Counter-Terrorism Assistant Commissioner Mark Rowley
added: 'We need communities and families to bring to our attention anyone they
perceive may be vulnerable, a danger or escalating towards terrorism. Anyone
with information is urged to contact the Anti-Terrorist Hotline on 0800 789 321.

'From this afternoon we will begin to increase our levels of visible patrols and
implement other security and protection measures. We will also build on existing
community relations to provide reassurance and seek their support and assistance
in keeping the UK safe.'

LOAD-DATE: August 29, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDM


                   Copyright 2014 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              383 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                   MailOnline

                       August 29, 2014 Friday 2:28 PM GMT

Terror attack on the UK now 'highly likely' warns Home Secretary Theresa May as
threat level raised to 'severe'

BYLINE: TOM MCTAGUE, MAILONLINE DEPUTY POLITICAL EDITOR

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 604 words



     ·    Threat level raised amid fears over UK jihadis returning from Iraq and
          Syria
     ·    Mrs May said there is no information to suggest that an attack is
          imminent
     ·    Up to 600 British extremists have travelled to the Middle East to join
          ISIS
     ·    Around 300 UK-linked terrorists are thought to have returned to
          Britain


A terror attack on the UK is now 'highly likely', Theresa May announced today.

The Home Secretary's remarks came after the official threat level was raised
from substantial to severe - the second highest level.

Mrs May stressed that there is no information to suggest an attack is imminent,
but warned: 'We face a real and serious threat in the UK from international
terrorism.'

FIVE TERROR THREAT LEVELS

Critical - an attack is expected imminently

Severe - an attack is highly likely

Substantial - an attack is a strong possibility

Moderate - an attack is possible but not likely

Low - an attack is unlikely

The Home Secretary said: 'The Joint Terrorism Analysis Centre (JTAC) is
responsible for setting the national threat level.

'That informs the decisions of security professionals across the public and
private sectors about the appropriate level of security in place across the
United Kingdom.

'JTAC's judgements about that threat level are made on the basis of the very
latest intelligence and are independent of ministers.

'JTAC has today raised the threat level to the UK from international terrorism
from 'substantial' to 'severe'.

'That means that a terrorist attack is highly likely, but there is no
intelligence to suggest that an attack is imminent.'

It is understood that there is no intelligence relating to any specific threat
to the forthcoming Nato summit.

The decision comes against a backdrop of increasing concern about hundreds of
aspiring British jihadis travelling to Iraq and Syria to learn terrorist
'tradecraft', and the murder of American journalist James Foley by an apparently
English killer.

Sir Bernard Hogan-Howe, the UK's most senior police officer, said Scotland Yard
is prepared for an influx in case a swathe of homegrown extremists decide to
return at the same time.

In a statement released today, Mrs May said: 'The increase in the threat level
is related to developments in Syria and Iraq where terrorist groups are planning
attacks against the West.

'Some of those plots are likely to involve foreign fighters who have travelled
there from the UK and Europe to take part in those conflicts.

'The first and most important duty of government is the protection of the
British people.

'We have already taken steps to improve our powers and increase our capabilities
for dealing with the developing terrorist threats we face.

'That process will continue and the British public should be in no doubt that we
will take the strongest possible action to protect our national security.

'We face a real and serious threat in the UK from international terrorism. I
would urge the public to remain vigilant and to report any suspicious activity
to the police.'

National Policing Lead for Counter-Terrorism Assistant Commissioner Mark Rowley
said: 'We need communities and families to bring to our attention anyone they
perceive may be vulnerable, a danger or escalating towards terrorism. Anyone
with information is urged to contact the Anti-Terrorist Hotline on 0800 789 321.

'From this afternoon we will begin to increase our levels of visible patrols and
implement other security and protection measures. We will also build on existing
community relations to provide reassurance and seek their support and assistance
in keeping the UK safe.'

LOAD-DATE: August 29, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDM


                   Copyright 2014 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              384 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                  mirror.co.uk

                       August 29, 2014 Friday 3:22 PM GMT

IS: Terror attack in UK 'highly likely' after threat level is raised from
substantial to severe;
Home Secretary Theresa May made the announcement this afternoon - although she
stressed there is no information to suggest an attack is imminent

BYLINE: By Anthony Bond

SECTION: NEWS,UK NEWS

LENGTH: 483 words


The terror threat to the UK has been raised from substantial to severe - meaning
a terrorist attack is "highly likely".

Home Secretary Theresa May made the announcement this afternoon - although she
stressed there is no information to suggest an attack is imminent.

Mrs May said: "The Joint Terrorism Analysis Centre (JTAC) is responsible for
setting the national threat level. That informs the decisions of security
professionals across the public and private sectors about the appropriate level
of security in place across the United Kingdom.

"JTAC's judgements about that threat level are made on the basis of the very
latest intelligence and are independent of ministers.

"JTAC has today raised the threat level to the UK from international terrorism
from SUBSTANTIAL to SEVERE. That means that a terrorist attack is highly likely,
but there is no intelligence to suggest that an attack is imminent."

It is understood that there is no intelligence relating to any specific threat
to the forthcoming Nato summit.

The decision comes against a backdrop of increasing concern about hundreds of
aspiring British jihadis travelling to Iraq and Syria to learn terrorist
"tradecraft", and the murder of American journalist James Foley by an apparently
English killer.

Sir Bernard Hogan-Howe, the UK's most senior police officer, said Scotland Yard
is prepared for an influx in case a swathe of homegrown extremists decide to
return at the same time.

In a statement released today, Mrs May said: "The increase in the threat level
is related to developments in Syria and Iraq where terrorist groups are planning
attacks against the West. Some of those plots are likely to involve foreign
fighters who have travelled there from the UK and Europe to take part in those
conflicts.

"The first and most important duty of government is the protection of the
British people. We have already taken steps to improve our powers and increase
our capabilities for dealing with the developing terrorist threats we face. That
process will continue and the British public should be in no doubt that we will
take the strongest possible action to protect our national security.

"We face a real and serious threat in the UK from international terrorism. I
would urge the public to remain vigilant and to report any suspicious activity
to the police."

National Policing Lead for Counter-Terrorism Assistant Commissioner Mark Rowley
said: "We need communities and families to bring to our attention anyone they
perceive may be vulnerable, a danger or escalating towards terrorism. Anyone
with information is urged to contact the Anti-Terrorist Hotline on 0800 789 321.

"From this afternoon we will begin to increase our levels of visible patrols and
implement other security and protection measures. We will also build on existing
community relations to provide reassurance and seek their support and assistance
in keeping the UK safe."

LOAD-DATE: September 9, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDMI


                      Copyright 2014 Trinity Mirror, Plc.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              385 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                  mirror.co.uk

                       August 29, 2014 Friday 3:22 PM GMT

IS: Terror attack in UK 'highly likely' after threat level is raised from
substantial to severe;
David Cameron this afternoon said that the threat from Islamic State militants
is a "greater threat to our security than we have seen before"

BYLINE: By Anthony Bond

SECTION: NEWS,UK NEWS

LENGTH: 590 words


The terror threat to the UK has been raised from substantial to severe - meaning
a terrorist attack is "highly likely" - following increasing concerns over
Islamic State militants.

Home Secretary Theresa May made the announcement this afternoon - although she
stressed there is no information to suggest an attack is imminent.

It led to David Cameron saying new laws will be introduced to crack down on
terror suspects as he warned that extremism in Iraq and Syria poses a greater
danger to Britain than al Qaida.

The Prime Minister said legislation would be introduced so it was easier to
seize jihadists' passports.

"What we are facing in Iraq now with Isil (Islamic State) is a greater threat to
our security than we have seen before," he told a press conference in Downing
Street.

It comes against a backdrop of increasing concern about hundreds of aspiring
British jihadis travelling to Iraq and Syria to learn terrorist "tradecraft",
and the murder of American journalist James Foley by an apparently English
killer.

Mrs May said: "The Joint Terrorism Analysis Centre (JTAC) is responsible for
setting the national threat level. That informs the decisions of security
professionals across the public and private sectors about the appropriate level
of security in place across the United Kingdom.

"JTAC's judgements about that threat level are made on the basis of the very
latest intelligence and are independent of ministers.

"JTAC has today raised the threat level to the UK from international terrorism
from SUBSTANTIAL to SEVERE. That means that a terrorist attack is highly likely,
but there is no intelligence to suggest that an attack is imminent."

It is understood that there is no intelligence relating to any specific threat
to the forthcoming Nato summit.

Sir Bernard Hogan-Howe, the UK's most senior police officer, said Scotland Yard
is prepared for an influx in case a swathe of homegrown extremists decide to
return at the same time.

In a statement released today, Mrs May said: "The increase in the threat level
is related to developments in Syria and Iraq where terrorist groups are planning
attacks against the West.

WATCH BRITISH STUDENT BOAST OF JOINING 'GOLDEN ERA OF JIHAD'

Brit student boasts of 'golden age for Jihad' in chilling video

"Some of those plots are likely to involve foreign fighters who have travelled
there from the UK and Europe to take part in those conflicts.

"The first and most important duty of government is the protection of the
British people. We have already taken steps to improve our powers and increase
our capabilities for dealing with the developing terrorist threats we face. That
process will continue and the British public should be in no doubt that we will
take the strongest possible action to protect our national security.

"We face a real and serious threat in the UK from international terrorism. I
would urge the public to remain vigilant and to report any suspicious activity
to the police."

National Policing Lead for Counter-Terrorism Assistant Commissioner Mark Rowley
said: "We need communities and families to bring to our attention anyone they
perceive may be vulnerable, a danger or escalating towards terrorism. Anyone
with information is urged to contact the Anti-Terrorist Hotline on 0800 789 321.

"From this afternoon we will begin to increase our levels of visible patrols and
implement other security and protection measures. We will also build on existing
community relations to provide reassurance and seek their support and assistance
in keeping the UK safe."

Terror threat

LOAD-DATE: September 9, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDMI


                      Copyright 2014 Trinity Mirror, Plc.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              386 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                    Scotsman

                             August 29, 2014 Friday

Terror attack in UK now highly likely'

BYLINE: Chris Marshall

LENGTH: 943  words


DAVID Cameron announced new laws to crack down on home-grown extremists
yesterday as the terror threat was raised to its highest level in three years,
meaning an attack on the UK is "highly likely".

The Prime Minister warned the struggle against Islamist extremists in Iraq and
Syria poses a greater security risk than al-Qaeda and is likely to last decades.

As the terror threat was raised from substantial to severe, he said legislation
would be introduced to flush out those attempting to travel to join the fight in
Iraq and Syria. It was also revealed high-profile police patrols would be
stepped up. He said legislation would make it easier to seize jihadists'
passports, amid fears Islamist militants could set up a terrorist state on the
shores of the Mediterranean.

Earlier, Home Secretary Theresa May announced a raising of the terror threat to
its second highest level, meaning an attack is highly likely. It is the first
time since 2010 that the risk has been rated as severe. In Downing Street
yesterday, Mr Cameron said: "What we are facing in Iraq now with Isil [Islamic
State] is a greater threat to our security than we have seen before."

He said the intelligence and security services believed at least 500 Britons had
gone to fight in Syria and potentially Iraq.

Experts believe as many as 30 may have travelled from Scotland, including
Aberdeen man Abdul Raqib Amin, seen in an IS recruitment video in June.

Mr Cameron stressed the government had already taken steps to counter the threat
of jihadists returning to commit atrocities, but said there was still a need to
fill "gaps in our armoury". He will make a full statement to parliament on
Monday.

The Afghan Taleban, he said, had harboured and facilitated al-Qaeda terrorism,
but IS was effectively a terrorist state.

The group is fighting a brutal insurgency in Iraq and was behind the beheading
of American journalist James Foley.

"We could be facing a terrorist state on the shores of the Mediterranean and
bordering a Nato member [Turkey]," he added.

The murder of the US photo­journalist was "clear evidence - not that any more
was needed - that this is not some far-off foreign conflict, thousands of miles
away, that we can ignore".

Mr Cameron said: "In Afghanistan, the Taleban were prepared to play host to
al-Qaeda. With IS, we are facing a terrorist organisation not being hosted in a
country but seeking to establish and then violently expand its own terrorist
state.

"With designs on expanding to Jordan, Lebanon, right up to the Turkish border,
we could be facing a terrorist state on the shores of the Mediterranean and
bordering a Nato member."

His statement came as the Joint Terrorism Analysis Centre (JTAC) raised the
threat level from substantial amid fears over British jihadists returning to
carry out attacks. But Mrs May said there was no specific intelligence of a
forthcoming attack.

"The increase in the threat level is related to developments in Syria and Iraq
where terrorist groups are planning attacks against the West," she said. "Some
of those plots are likely to involve foreign fighters who have travelled from
the UK and Europe to those conflicts."

Speculation is mounting that the government could beef up terrorism
investigation and prevention measures. They could impose "internal exile" on
suspects, similar to the old control orders regime.

Mr Cameron said: "My first priority as prime minister is to make sure we do
everything possible to keep our people safe.

"The ambition to create an extremist caliphate in the heart of Iraq and Syria is
a threat to our own security here in the UK.

"The terrorist threat was not created by the Iraq war ten years ago. It existed
even before the horrific attacks on 9/11, themselves some time before the war.

"This threat cannot be solved simply by dealing with perceived grievances over
western foreign policy. Nor can it be dealt with by addressing poverty,
dictatorship or instability in the region.

"The root cause of this threat to our security is quite clear. It is a poisonous
ideology of Islamist extremism that is condemned by all faiths and faith
leaders."

Mr Cameron is set to push for more co-ordinated European action to track
jihadists at a summit in Brussels this weekend.

The UK wants to revive a directive that would enable police and security
services across the EU to share passenger records.

National leaders have signed off the arrangements - but they stalled in the
European Parliament after MEPs expressed concern about civil liberties.

Earlier this week, Scotland Yard disclosed police activity to combat the threat
of returning IS fighters "has been escalating for many months now".

In the first half of this year, there were 69 arrests relating to Syria.
Suspects are being held at a rate fivefold to that in 2013.

Metropolitan Police Commissioner Sir Bernard Hogan-Howe joined calls for
would-be jihadis who go to fight abroad to be stripped of their UK passports. He
also appealed for the return of control orders to restrict the movement of
suspects who could not face trial or be deported.

He said Scotland Yard is prepared in case a swathe of homegrown extremists
decide to return at the same time.

In June, Richard Barrett, a former head of counter-terrorism at MI6, estimated
that up to 300 people may have returned to the UK already. He said intelligence
services faced an "impossible" task in trying to track them.

Raffaello Pantucci, senior research fellow at think-tank the Royal United
Services Institute, said: "There is potential for hundreds of people with
knowledge of the battlefield to come back. It all speaks to a very dangerous
confluence of events.

"The threat picture is very menacing."

LOAD-DATE: August 30, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: STTS


                       Copyright 2014 Johnston Press Plc
                              All Rights Reserved

                              387 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                                  Daily Mirror

                            August 30, 2014 Saturday
                                   Edition 2;
                                National Edition

WAR ON BRITAIN;
TERROR ATTACK FEARS ON OUR SOIL Threat level at severe for first time in 3 years
PM plans crackdown on IS fighters coming home

BYLINE: JAMES LYONS

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 4,5

LENGTH: 876 words


ISLAMIC State fanatics pose the greatest terrorist threat Britain has ever
faced, David Cameron warned yesterday as he vowed to step up security against
attacks on our soil.

With at least 250 UK jihadists now back home from the battlefields of Syria and
Iraq thought to be plotting bloodshed here, the PM put the country on high
alert.

He said: "What we're facing now... is a greater and deeper threat to our
security than we have known before."

He was also "absolutely satisfied" that IS "would make specific threats to the
UK".

Mr Cameron also admitted there were weak points in home security that IS thugs
could exploit and pledged to plug the gaps.

He spoke after Theresa May raised the terror threat level from "substantial" to
"severe" for the first time in three years.

The Home Secretary said: "That means a terrorist attack is highly likely." But
she added: "There is no intelligence to suggest that an attack is imminent."

RAMPAGING

Mr Cameron will unveil new anti-terror measures on Monday in the wake of the
warning. They include stripping Brits of their passports if they go to fight in
Syria or Iraq. And more police will patrol streets and airports to thwart
attacks.

He said IS was a bigger threat than al-Qaeda. There are still hundreds of Brits
thought to be fighting for the group who are rampaging through Syria and Iraq,
including Abu Hussain.

The raised threat level came in the wake of US journalist James Foley's murder
by IS extremists last week - involving a British jihadist. The PM has insisted
there would be no knee-jerk reaction to the killing.

But he said yesterday: "We have to listen carefully to the security and the
intelligence officers who do so much every day to keep us safe. It is becoming
clear that there are some gaps in our armoury and we need to strengthen them.

"We need to do more to stop people travelling, to stop those who do go from
returning and to deal decisively with those who are already here."

Labour backed the move. Shadow Home Secretary Yvette Cooper said: "We support
doing more to disrupt the travel plans of those planning to go out to fight and
to pursue those who return. That means those returning from fighting should face
criminal investigations and prosecutions."

Mr Cameron will urge fellow leaders at an EU summit today in Brussels to also
try to stop fanatics leaving their countries to fight with IS. He wants them to
share air passenger details to track those travelling to war-torn regions. The
PM said James's barbaric beheading showed the threat from IS cannot be ignored.
He added: "In Afghanistan the Taliban were prepared to play host to al-Qaeda.
With IS we have a terrorist organisation not being hosted in a country but
seeking to establish and violently expand its own terrorist state.

"With designs on expanding to Jordan, Lebanon, right up to the Turkish border,
we could be facing a terrorist state on the shores of the Med and bordering a
Nato member." Downing Street refused to give details of what is being considered
to stop attacks in Britain.

Police chiefs reiterated their plea for relatives and friends of anyone joining
IS to contact them.

Counter-Terrorism Assistant Commissioner Mark Rowley said: "We need communities
to bring to our attention anyone they perceive may be vulnerbarbaric able, a
danger or escalating towards terrorism. From this afternoon we will begin to
increase our visible patrols and implement other security measures.

"We will also build on existing community relations to provide reassurance and
seek their support and assistance in keeping the UK safe."

Met Police commissioner Sir Bernard Hogan-Howe said Scotland Yard was preparing
itself for an influx of jihadists should they decide to return en masse. On
Thursday, the Mirror told how Brit extremist Amu Bakr vowed to bring his holy
war from Syria to the UK unless the West stopped attacking IS.

Despite the terror alert, it is understood there is no intelligence relating to
any specific threat to next month's Nato summit at Celtic Manor in Newport. But
meetings in the town and nearby Cardiff will be behind a ring of steel. More
than 9,000 officers have been drafted in for a £50million security operation.

Mr Cameron yesterday warned Britain was locked in a struggle against a
"poisonous ideology" that could last years or even decades.

He said: "We must use all the resources we have at our disposal... aid,
diplomacy, political influence and our military."

But police chiefs warned the Tory-led Coalition's relaxing of control orders
which placed suspects under house arrest was wrong. They were replaced with
weaker Terrorism Prevention and Investigation Measures.

Ms Cooper said: "We have asked the Government to look again at control orders or
strengthening TPIM powers."

While Labour supports stronger antiterror measures, the Lib Dems are opposed. Mr
Cameron will spend the weekend trying to persuade deputy Nick Clegg to sign up
to the package.

james.lyons@mirror.co.uk

voice of the mirror: page 8

"It is becoming clear there are some gaps in our armoury and we need to plug
them DAVID CAMERON YESTERDAY ON THREAT FROM ISLAMIC STATE

SPOOKS at MI5 were slow to react to the increased security threat level - taking
a couple of hours to update their website from "substantial" to "severe"
yesterday.

LOAD-DATE: September 3, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: DEADLY FANATIC Brit jihadist Abu Hussain is in IraqGUARD Gun police at
HeathrowFEARS Cardiff anti-terror fenceWARNING Mr Cameron speaking yesterday

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DMR


                            Copyright 2014 MGN Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              388 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                          Daily Record and Sunday Mail

                            August 30, 2014 Saturday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

JIHADIS WAR ON BRITAIN;
SECURITY CHIEFS: TERROR ATTACK IS HIGHLY LIKELY ISIS FANATICS BIGGER THREAT THAN
AL-QAEDA

BYLINE: JAMES LYONS

SECTION: FEATURES; Pg. 1,8

LENGTH: 519 words


BRITAIN is facing a huge terror threat from ISIS Jihadis with an attack by the
extremists now "highly likely", security chiefs warned yesterday.

Theresa May said the Joint Terrorism Analysis Centre had raised the risk from
"substantial" to "severe". The Home Secretary Cam warning over attack as Ryder
Cup fears grow  added: "That means a terrorist attack is highly likely but there
is no intelligence to suggest that an attack is imminent."

The warning came as David Cameron said that ISIS pose an even greater terror
threat than al-Qaeda.

The Prime Minister, who revealed that security was being ramped up, added: "In
Afghanistan the Taliban were prepared to play host to al-Qaeda.

"With ISIS, we're facing a terrorist organisation not being hosted in a country
but seeking to establish and then violently expand its own terrorist state.

"With designs on expanding to Jordan, Lebanon, right up to the Turkish border,
we could be facing a terrorist state on the shores of the Mediterranean and
bordering a Nato member."

The escalation of the threat means security at the Ryder Cup, which begins at
Gleneagles on September 26, is set to be cranked up.

A huge security operation has already been planned for golf 's showpiece event
between Europe and the US, which is seen as an obvious target for terrorists.

Hundreds of police officers have already been assigned to the event and more may
now be drafted in.

Meanwhile, Cameron will unveil anti-terror measures - including laws making it
easier to take away passports from those who go to fight in Syria and Iraq - on
Monday.

The change in terror threat comes after a British Jihadi appeared in the
execution video of US journalist James Foley last week.

Cameron said that the "barbaric" murder and beheading of Foley was a reminder
the ISIS threat cannot be ignored. Security chiefs say that 500 Britons are
fighting with the fanatics and at least 250 hardened Jihadis have already
returned.

Police and intelligence chiefs have long warned that the Government were wrong
to scrap control orders which placed terror suspects under a form of house
arrest.

They were replaced with weaker Terrorism Prevention and Investigation Measures,
Tpims, which don't let courts decide where suspects live.

Security chiefs have also demanded powers to let them keep tabs on mobile phone
and internet use.

A No10 source admitted that ministers had only started considering new measures
when the terror threat level was raised.

Cameron said: "We have to listen carefully to the security and the intelligence
officers.

"It is becoming clear that there are some gaps in our armoury and we need to
strengthen them.

"We need to do more to stop people travelling, to stop those who do go from
returning and to deal decisively with those who are already here."

The warning comes amid mounting fears about an attack from British Jihadis
travelling to Iraq and Syria to learn deadly terrorist "tradecraft".

Sir Bernard Hogan-Howe, the UK's most senior police officer, said Scotland Yard
were prepared for an influx of homegrown extremists.

There are gaps in our armoury and we need to strengthen them DAVID CAMERON

LOAD-DATE: September 3, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: WARNING Theresa MayANTI-TERROR LAWS PM David Cameron

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DRC


             Copyright 2014 Scottish Daily Record & Sunday Mail Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                              389 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                            Daily Post (North Wales)

                            August 30, 2014 Saturday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

Tougher terror laws as risk of attack heightened

BYLINE: James Tapsfield

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 29

LENGTH: 175 words


DAVID Cameron has announced new laws to crack down on terror suspects as he
warned that extremism in Iraq and Syria poses a greater danger to Britain than
al Qaida.

As the terrorist threat to the UK was raised from substantial to severe, the
Prime Minister said legislation would be introduced so it was easier to seize
jihadists' passports.

"What we are facing in Iraq now with Isil (Islamic State) is a greater threat to
our security than we have seen before," he told a press conference in Downing
Street.

Mr Cameron said the intelligence and security services believed that at least
500 Britons had gone to fight in Syria and potentially Iraq.

Although he stressed that the Government had already taken steps to counter the
threat of jihadists returning to commit atrocities, he said it had become clear
that there was still a need to fill "gaps in our armoury".

He will be making a statement to Parliament on Monday, giving details.

Mr Cameron said: "We could be facing a terrorist state on the shores of the
Mediterranean and bordering a Nato member."

LOAD-DATE: September 5, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DPW


                       Copyright 2014 Trinity Mirror plc
                              All Rights Reserved

                              390 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                   MailOnline

                     August 30, 2014 Saturday 10:11 PM GMT

'I crashed to the ground thinking... this man is going to kick me to death':
George Galloway reveals his terror after attack in Notting Hill - and how he led
police to suspect

BYLINE: GEORGE GALLOLWAY FOR THE MAIL ON SUNDAY

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 515 words



     ·    George Galloway was left with broken rib when he was assaulted in
          street
     ·    He also suffered a badly bruised face following violent attack in
          Notting Hill
     ·    Below, the Respect MP reveals how he feared for his life during
          incident


I was walking down the street in Notting Hill in broad daylight and getting into
my car when two Moroccan guys approached me.

One of them said he was leaving Britain the next day and would love a photo with
me for his cafe back home. I stood in the road shaking hands with him as his
friend took  a picture.

Out of the corner of my eye I saw a man powering towards me like a bat out of
hell.

He laid into me and was effing and blinding about the Holocaust. He looked like
the type who works out and moved very fast. He punched me so many times I kept
thinking, 'When is this going to stop?'

But it didn't. I went into what  boxers call 'peekaboo style' like American
heavyweight Floyd Patterson when he fought Muhammad Ali, covering my face and
eyes.

He got frustrated his punches weren't getting through and kicked me back towards
the kerb.

I lost my footing and staggered backwards, crashing into a grille on a Moroccan
delicatessen I had eaten at a few hours earlier. I was on the ground thinking
'this man is going to kick me to death'.

He was so enraged he got on top of me and eventually landed a haymaker right on
my jaw. I felt a terrible crack and sickening thud. It went on for about three
minutes - a long time when punches are raining down on you. Luckily, the two
Moroccan guys pulled him off.

My attacker calmly walked across the road and I drove up the road behind him. I
was in a bad way but I was determined he wouldn't get away with it. I called 999
and described him to police.

He knew I was behind him. I slowed down and the police told  me to stop
following him. I pulled the car over and saw him go down a side street.

While I was talking to the police, he reappeared and walked over to a bus stop.

At this point a police van hurtled round the corner with four police officers in
it. Three were women.  It was like Cagney and Lacey.

I shouted, 'He is getting on the No 23 bus' and the police drove into the middle
of the road to stop it.

The policewomen bravely piled on to the bus, and brought a man out with
handcuffs on.

'I have no idea why it happened, though I suspect my attacker was a thug from an
extreme Right-wing group                         '

I have no idea why it happened, though I suspect my attacker was a thug from an
extreme Right-wing group.

Regardless of his motives,  I have no regrets about speaking out on issues like
Israel and the Middle East.

We live in a democracy, and as someone who has been elected as an MP on six
occasions, I have a right to voice my opinions.

And like other politicians who have suffered similar threats and attacks, I am
entitled to receive a degree of  protection from the State so I can continue to
do so.

Even though I have just turned 60 years old, I am slightly ashamed to admit that
I didn't land a single blow. But I am not ready to stop fighting for what I
believe in yet.

LOAD-DATE: August 30, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDM


                   Copyright 2014 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              391 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                  mirror.co.uk

                      August 30, 2014 Saturday 9:49 PM GMT

Jihadists could launch terror attack on UK within a month warns Saudi Arabia
ruler;
Ministers want new rules to allow them to seize jihadists' passports and ban
those who go to Iraq and Syria from getting back into Britain

BYLINE: By Justin Penrose

SECTION: NEWS,WORLD NEWS

LENGTH: 239 words


Homegrown jihadists could launch a terror attack in the UK within a month, the
ruler of Saudi Arabia has warned.

The Sunday People reports King Abdullah spoke out after David Cameron raised
Britain's              terror threatto "severe".

Mr Cameron and Nick Clegg clashed this weekend over new powers to combat
Islamist extremists, with Clegg allies insisting Lib Dems were determined to
block any ­"kneejerk" reaction by Mr Cameron.

But King Abdullah warned unless the West puts aside party politics and
confronted the threat there would be a terror attack within a month.

He said: "Terrorism is              an evil forcethat must be fought with
­wisdom and speed. If ­neglected, after a month it will arrive in Europe and a
month later in America."

Mr Cameron raised the threat level after 250 jihadists who fought alongside IS
groups in Syria and Iraq returned to the UK.

Intelligence sources say some of them have reached the "attack planning" stage,
raising the chances of an atrocity taking place.

The PM said: "What we are facing in Iraq is a greater threat to our ­security
than we've seen before."

Ministers want new rules to allow them to seize jihadists' passports and ban
those who              go to Iraq and Syriafrom getting back into Britain.

One - Nasser Muthana, 20 - is thought to have posted an online photo of homemade
bombs with the message: "So the UK is afraid I come back with the skills I've
gained."

ISIS: Hit List

LOAD-DATE: September 9, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDMI


                      Copyright 2014 Trinity Mirror, Plc.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              392 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                 standard.co.uk

                     August 30, 2014 Saturday 11:41 AM GMT

David Cameron and Nick Clegg hold talks to discuss counter-terrorism measures as
the threat of an attack on the UK becomes 'highly likely'

BYLINE: Standard Reporter

SECTION: POLITICS

LENGTH: 859 words


David Cameron and Nick Clegg are holding crucial talks on new measures to
counter the terror threat posed by Islamic extremists after security agencies
raised the terror threat level in the UK to "severe".

The coalition partners will try to reach an agreement on the Prime Minister's
plans to make it easier to take people's passports away and restrict travel.

Liberal Democrat ministers, including the Deputy PM Mr Clegg, have insisted that
any changes to legislation will need careful consideration.

The Prime Minister will make a Commons statement on Monday to announce steps to
close "gaps in our armoury", including new legislation to prevent suspected
terrorists from travelling to Iraq and Syria.

A Lib Dem source said Mr Clegg and the Prime Minister were in "constant
communication" on the issue and "we will consider very carefully any new
proposals that are put to us".

Yesterday Britain's Joint Terrorism Analysis Centre said that an attack on the
UK was now "highly likely". Home Secretary Theresa May stressed there was no
intelligence to suggest an imminent attack.

After the decision, she added: "The increase in the threat level is related to
developments in Syria and Iraq, where terrorist groups are planning attacks
against the West."

Mr Cameron, who is meeting European leaders in Brussels where he will push for
co-ordinated EU action to track jihadis, has insisted there will not be a "knee
jerk response" to the threat posed by British extremists returning from the
Middle East, but there were areas where more needed to be done.

Related stories

"We need to do more to stop people travelling, to stop those who do go from
returning, and to deal decisively with those who are already here," he said.

"This will include further steps to stop people travelling, with new legislation
that will make it easier to take people's passports away."

The Lib Dem source said: "We wanted to avoid any knee jerk responses and the
Prime Minister made very clear that he agrees with that."

The source said it was clear that "any new proposals would be discussed
carefully, based on the evidence and with regard to the liberty of British
citizens".

Speculation is mounting that the Government could bow to pressure for terrorism
prevention and investigation measures (Tpims) to be beefed up. There have been
calls for powers to impose "internal exile" on suspects, a key part of the old
control orders regime, to be restored.

Labour leader Ed Miliband suggested the Government should "revisit" the decision
to scrap control orders in favour of Tpims.

He said the Government should take action to stop young Britons being drawn to
extremist ideology, with tougher measures to prevent would-be jihadis travelling
to join Islamic State (IS) fighters in Iraq and Syria.

Mr Miliband also suggested a mandatory programme of deradicalisation for those
involved on the fringes with IS and called for ministers to revisit the decision
to scrap the control orders regime for terror suspects.

Writing in The Independent, Mr Miliband stressed the need for a "multilateral
alliance" combining political, diplomatic and humanitarian action to counter the
"perverted mission" of IS in the Middle East.

In the UK, he said, "we should act with clarity and determination" to tackle the
threat from extremists.

"Such action must include an overhaul of the Home Office Prevent programme to
equip communities with the tools to stop young people being sucked into
extremist ideology," he said.

"We should also do more to prevent potential fighters from travelling to the
region, and promote an effective, mandatory programme of de-radicalisation for
anyone who is drawn into the fringes of extremism in Syria and Iraq."

He highlighted concerns raised by David Anderson, the independent reviewer of
counter-terrorism legislation, about the effectiveness of Tpims.

Mr Miliband said: "For the most serious and high-risk cases, as the independent
reviewer on terrorism has recommended, the Government should strengthen existing
powers, including revisiting the case for control orders."

The threat level was raised from substantial to severe by the Joint Terrorism
Analysis Centre (JTAC) due to fears about British jihadists returning from Iraq
and Syria.

The change means a terrorist attack is considered "highly likely", although Home
Secretary Theresa May stressed there was no specific intelligence.

"The increase in the threat level is related to developments in Syria and Iraq
where terrorist groups are planning attacks against the West," Mrs May said.
"Some of those plots are likely to involve foreign fighters who have travelled
there from the UK and Europe to take part in those conflicts."

In Brussels, Mr Cameron will use the meeting of EU leaders to launch a fresh
push for a measure which would make it easier to track the movement of potential
jihadis.

The UK wants to revive a directive that would enable police and security
services across the EU to share passenger records.

National leaders have signed off the arrangements - but they have stalled in the
European Parliament after MEPs expressed concern about civil liberties and
privacy.

Additional reporting by the Press Association

LOAD-DATE: August 30, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBES


                    Copyright 2014 Evening Standard Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              393 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                               Stoke The Sentinel

                            August 30, 2014 Saturday

Terror attack on UK 'highly likely'

SECTION: NEWS:LETTERS; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 167  words


THE UK's terror threat level is being raised from to 'severe' in response to
conflicts in Iraq and Syria. The new alert level means an attack on the UK is
'highly likely', although Home Secretary Theresa May said there was no
intelligence to suggest an attack was 'imminent'. PM David Cameron said at least
500 people had travelled from the UK 'to fight in Syria and potentially Iraq'.
He said Islamic State (IS) extremists - who are attempting to establish a
caliphate in the region - represented a 'greater and deeper threat to our
security than we have known before'. New legislation would be brought in to make
it easier to take passports away from people who travelled abroad to join the
conflict, he said. Efforts are currently under way to identify a suspected
British jihadist who appeared in IS footage of the killing of US journalist
James Foley.

National Policing Lead for Counter-Terrorism Assistant Commissioner Mark Rowley
said security and protection measures were  increased from yesterday.

LOAD-DATE: September 1, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                           Copyright 2014 Localworld
                              All Rights Reserved

                              394 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                               Daily Star Online

                      August 31, 2014 Sunday 12:05 AM GMT

EXCLUSIVE: Terrorists are planning devastating attack as part of 'war in
Britian'

BYLINE: Neil Chandler

LENGTH: 304 words


ISLAMIST fanatics are plotting to carry out a Mumbai-style suicide attack on
British soil, intelligence chiefs fear.

MI5 believes Brit terrorists returning home from fighting abroad are planning a
"spectacular" similar to the Mumbai attack in India in 2008 which left 174
people dead and more than 300 injured.

Intelligence chiefs have learned the Islamic State terror group want to "bring
the war to the UK" by launching commando attacks on high-profile buildings in
either London, Birmingham or Manchester.

The Daily Star Sunday has also learned the SAS has moved part of its
counter-terrorist team to a base near London following the raising of the terror
threat from "substantial" to "severe", meaning a terrorist attack in the UK is
"highly likely".

IS could be bringing explosives and weapons into the country via shipping
containers, experts believe.

One source said: "The nightmare scenario is that IS will mount an attack at a
high-profile location in the City of London or another major financial centre
such as Canary Wharf.

"The terrorists could storm a building, rig it with explosives, take hostages or
kill at will.

"It would be a suicide operation and there would be a lot of casualties.

Related articles James Foley ISIS execution faked British jihadis Iraq Islamic
State Nandos terrorist Islamic State 'Message in Blood' US execute Kurdish
soldier

"We know Islamist terrorists only repeat successes - they never repeat failures.
An attack like that in the UK would have international consequences."

Another area under investigation is the possibility of an attack using the
Thames as a major access point.

The source added: "The Thames is a completely open gateway and what makes this
so dangerous is an attack could occur without warning and without a UK-based
stash of weapons."

LOAD-DATE: August 31, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDS


              Copyright 2014 Northern and Shell Media Publications
                              All Rights Reserved

                              395 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                  mirror.co.uk

                      August 31, 2014 Sunday 11:42 PM GMT

David Cameron is preying on terrorism fear in shallow attempt to show stand
against jihadists;
Despite neither No.10, MI5 or MI6 being able to point to an imminent terrorist
attack, Cameron has upgraded the official security threat from "substantial to
"severe"

BYLINE: By Kevin Maguire

SECTION: NEWS,UK NEWS

LENGTH: 457 words


Scaring the wits out of voters and trying to make the opposition appear weak is
a discredited ­political game, writes Kevin Maguire.

David Cameron's repeating the contemptible tactics of Tony Blair and, to a
lesser extent, Gordon Brown by stoking fears to introduce new terror laws.

The Tory leader 's motives are questionable after he exploited concern to pose
in Downing Street as a 21st Century St George, ready to defend Britain by
­shackling and slaying the Islamist dragon.

His unwillingness to be grilled after delivering a prepared ­statement, evasive
Dave taking a pathetic four questions, inadvertently betrayed the weakness of
his ground.

The raising of the official security threat from "substantial" to "severe" is
meaningless for most of us when No.10, MI5 or MI6 can't point to an imminent
attack.

But it enabled Cameron to deflect attention from the defection to UKIP of one of
his Tory MPs and provides a smokescreen for a legal assault on our freedoms.


After watching the Liberal ­Democrats spend four years as Cameron's human
shields, I suddenly find myself in ­agreement with Captain Ashdown as he accuses
the PM of indulging in a jihadi kneejerk.

Cameron the ­Conservative speaks of the horrors of Iraq and Syria as if he and
his predecessors played no part in the anarchy that's allowed the fanatics to
prosper.

His apocalyptic warnings ignore greater threats posed in the past, including
nuclear annihilation during the Cold War.

The beheading zealots are an evil bunch and they deserve to meet a sticky end.
But where is the proof that they pose a direct threat to Britain? Or are
returning to unleash atrocities on British streets?

If there is proof, publish it so we can make up our own minds.

And if we are in mortal danger, control orders restricting the ­movement of mass
murderers aren't the answer.

They should be arrested, charged and jailed if found guilty.

Nor is the answer the Pontius Pilate act of washing our hands by removing the
passports of British jihadists who've gone abroad.

They too should on return be arrested, charged and jailed if found guilty.

Presuming guilt would be the draconian overturning of 800 years of British
justice.

Cameron's setting a trap for Ed Miliband as Blair did for the Tories when he
demanded ­detention without charge for up to 90 days, and later Brown tried for
42 days.

It didn't work for Blair or Brown and won't work for Cameron if ­Miliband is
bold and takes a ­principled stand and champions liberty against scaremongering.

The fear is the Labour leader will go along - or outbid the Tory leader to avoid
appearing "soft" on terrorists.

The election will be fought on fear, not hope. And that's depressing.

Is David Cameron right to get involved in the Islamic State conflict?

LOAD-DATE: September 1, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDMI


                      Copyright 2014 Trinity Mirror, Plc.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              396 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                               The Sun (England)

                             August 31, 2014 Sunday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

THE FORGOTTEN VICTIMS OF 9/11;
Almost 13 years on from the terrorist attack on the World Trade Center, 1,115
bodies are still unaccounted for, leaving thousands of families desperate for
closure By Hannah Barr

BYLINE: Hannah Barr

SECTION: FABULOUS;FEATURES; Pg. 8,9,10

LENGTH: 1618 words


The morning of September 11, 2001, Sally Regenhard stared out of her son
Christian's bedroom window in mounting horror. Seven miles away from their
high-rise apartment in New York's Bronx district, the Twin Towers were
collapsing in a mushroom cloud of smoke and flames. Millions of tonnes of rubble
rained down, with dust and debris scattering across 16 acres, as Sally prayed
that firefighter Christian was safe.

"It was like a living nightmare," says Sally, 62, a consultant who lives with
her husband, Albert, 76. "Those towers came down like pillars of salt, like a
house of cards. The thought that my son might be inside that mangled mass of
concrete and steel.."

At the World Trade Center, 2,753 people lost their lives that day - including
28-year-old Christian. Only 18 survivors were pulled from the rubble, and the
rescue mission quickly became a hunt for the dead. Most of the bodies had been
reduced to unrecognisable fragments, and America's largest forensic
investigation was launched. Its job was to identify the human remains, bringing
closure to their grieving loved ones.

Over the 10 months following the attack on the Twin Towers, New York's
Department of Sanitation salvaged thousands of body parts from the rubble, and
the New York Office of Chief Medical Examiner (OCME) was assigned to identify
them. Thirteen years on, they still haven't finished. One thousand, one hundred
and fifteen bodies, including Christian's, are still missing.

"It still feels like Christian is missing, not dead," says Sally. "Without his
remains, I haven't been able to lay him to rest or find any peace."

Christian had only graduated from the New York City Fire Academy six weeks
before he went on the job that would take his life.

"He was such a talented boy, always dedicated to helping others," says Sally. "I
panicked when I couldn't track him down anywhere, but I had dozens of reassuring
calls from friends saying a probationary firefighter would never be allowed out
in the wreckage.

"I called the fire department on the hour every hour that day, but they couldn't
tell me anything. Since then, nobody has been able to explain what happened to
my son, where he was assigned to and what he was supposed to do without a
working radio or emergency plan. You assume, like you see in the movies, you'll
get a knock from a man in a uniform, but it never came, so I kept expecting
Christian to walk through the door and smile at me with his bright-blue eyes."

Over the following days, Sally went with her daughter, Christina, now 42, to
Pier 94 on the Hudson River - where authorities had set up a DNA centre - to
give samples to help the identification process. "We collected his electric
razor, toothbrush and comb from our flat - anything that might have had
biological material on it," she says.

But Sally still prayed for a miracle - until she finally visited Ground Zero two
weeks after the attacks and saw the enormity of the carnage up close.

"I'd hoped Christian might still be alive, trapped in one of the subterranean
shopping levels. But seeing the wreckage, the shells of the towers bending over,
the rubble where people had perished, I lost all hope. I clutched on to Albert
and sobbed."

Unable to have a funeral without a body, Sally held a memorial service for
Christian at St Patrick's Cathedral in New York on October 26, 2001.

"More than 3,000 came to pay their respects - including others who had lost
loved ones on 9/11," she says. "It was a beautiful day, the sun was shining. My
eulogy about Christian - a dedicated son, avid traveller and courageous rock
climber - was met with a standing ovation.

"But while it was a fitting celebration of his life, it didn't provide me with
any sense of closure. I lived in hope that some of his remains would be returned
so we could put him to rest properly."

Clinical psychologist Funke Baffour says that until the bereaved accept that
their loved ones have died, no progress can be made in resolving their grief.
"Without remains, even when faced with a certain knowledge of death, those left
behind can cling to theories and hope," she says.

"Denial is one of the steps people go through after losing a loved one and most
people need the experience of seeing their body to move on in the grieving
process."

But for many, there is still no sign of their missing loved ones. "An entire
department has been working on identifying the victims for over a decade," says
Mark Desire, the Assistant Director of Forensic Biology who oversees the World
Trade Center team at the OCME.

"The biological material was badly decomposed because the rubble was hot and
moist. All of the things that destroy DNA were present at Ground Zero, including
fire, heat, sunlight and water.

"After exhausting dental records and fingerprints, we extracted DNA from hair,
skin and blood, but these remains were largely destroyed, so we had to rely on
DNA from bone fragments instead."

Among remains that have been found was a single piece of collarbone that
belonged to Geoff Campbell, a 31-year-old risk consultant who had moved to New
York from the UK in 1999 for work.

His offices weren't in the World Trade Center, but he had a conference that day
on the 106th floor of the North Tower. Unable to contact him in the aftermath of
the attack, his frantic family flew over to New York and scoured the city's
hospitals.

"You create fantasies in your head that maybe he's in a hospital, in a coma,
that no one's identified him yet," says Geoff's brother Matt, who lives in
Hurstpierpoint, West Sussex, with his wife Mel, 44, and their three children,
Esme, 15, Phoebe, 13 and Evie, five. "It just didn't make sense that he wasn't
on this planet any more. But our liaison officer told us that most of the bodies
would have 'vaporised' in the collapse of the building, and I didn't hold much
hope."

Matt and his family returned home 10 days later with nothing. "It was
devastating. You need body parts for a Catholic burial, so we settled for a
memorial service in Geoff's favourite local pub in Northampton on September 30
instead. But it didn't feel like a proper goodbye."

Then, in June 2002, the family received a phone call from the OCME to say that
they had identified Geoff's collarbone. "The casket with the bone wrapped in a
numbered bag was sent to Mum," says Matt. "Opening it was devastating, and it
was so painful to look at. Until then, I had no tangible evidence that my
brother had gone. But there's a lot to be said for having something identified,
however small."

In July 2004, three more parts of Geoff were identified - his thigh bone,
shoulder bone and part of his spine - and the Campbells were finally able to
give him a Catholic burial at St John the Baptist's Church in Clayton, West
Sussex. "We laid 31 white roses on top of his casket for every year that he had
lived," says Matt. "It was a beautiful service and we finally felt like we'd
said our goodbyes."

Then, in March 2008, the Campbell family were notified that part of Geoff's
jawbone and hair had also been identified. "We felt he'd come home then and it
helped ease our greatest fear that Geoff had died suffering in the flames," says
Matt. "The piece of his hair wasn't singed at all, which really brought us
comfort."

Meanwhile, OCME's work has continued. New bone fragments were found last year in
60 trucks' worth of soil excavated from Ground Zero and left at Staten Island,
seemingly forgotten about until 2011.

OCME's scientists have also developed a newly refined DNA-extraction process of
heating and then cooling bone samples to grind them down into a finer powder.
This gives them more access to DNA, and has allowed the formal identification of
four new victims. "It's a slow and painstaking process," says Mark. "In some
cases, scientists have gone back to the same bone fragment 10 to 15 times."

In May, thousands of vacuum-sealed plastic pouches filled with these bits of
bone were transferred in a procession from the OCME lab to a repository at
bedrock level, 70ft underground in the National September 11 Memorial Museum.

The remains are still accessible to the forensic scientists who will continue to
try and match the DNA. But for Sally Regenhard and the other families whose
loved ones have never been identified, the burial site is extremely
controversial.

Sally - who helped set up the Christian Regenhard Center for Emergency Response
Studies in her son's honour - led a group of victims' family members in a
protest at the procession.

"The human remains of my son and all the other victims should be in a memorial,
not in the basement of a museum like a tourist attraction," she says. "No one
asked us where our loved ones' remains should be laid to rest. The remains don't
belong to New York or the museum - they belong to us. Lots of people don't
realise that so many victims are still missing."

For the families of the 1,115 victims still missing, the wait goes on, but Mark
insists the OCME will never give up.

"As new technology becomes available, the effort to identify the fragments will
continue indefinitely," he says. "The victims of 9/11 may be lost, but they are
not forgotten."

Fyi

In the first six weeks after 9/11, 8,000 separate body parts were recovered from
Ground Zero.

94 per cent of the missing victims' families were against their loved ones'
remains going to the National September 11 Memorial Museum.

It took firefighters 100 days to extinguish the fires from the attacks.

Labrador guide dog Roselle led her blind owner Michael Hingson down 78 storeys
of the North Tower and to the home of a friend.

'IT STILL FEELS LIKE CHRISTIAN IS MISSING'

Tell us what you think at www.Fabulousmag.co.uk, on Twitter #FabMag911 or at
www.Facebook.com/fabulous

'OUR SON'S REMAINS BELONG TO US'

LOAD-DATE: September 3, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photography: Getty Images For more information, visit
www.Respecthumanremainsatthe911memorial.com, www.Christianregenhardcenter.org,
Drfunke. www.co.uk

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: SUN


                    Copyright 2014 NEWS GROUP NEWSPAPERS LTD
                              All Rights Reserved

                              397 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring Middle East - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                            September 1, 2014 Monday

Iraqi security forces foil "terrorist" attack on Tikrit University - TV

LENGTH: 38 words


Iraqi security forces foiled a "terrorist" attack on Tikrit University and
killed 20 "terrorists", pro-government Al-Iraqiyah TV reported in a screen
caption on 1 September.

Source: Al-Iraqiyah TV, Baghdad, in Arabic 1645gmt 01 Sep 14

LOAD-DATE: September 1, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2014 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              398 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                            Belfast Telegraph Online

                      September 1, 2014 Monday 9:27 PM GMT

'Vague' anti-terror plans attacked

SECTION: UK

LENGTH: 1001 words


Coalition plans to counter the threat from British jihadists have been
criticised as "vague" and potentially unenforceable.

David Cameron told MPs police will be given powers to seize passports from UK
nationals suspected of going to fight for Islamic State (IS) in Iraq or Syria.

The Prime Minister said officials were also "working up" proposals to bar
British extremists from returning to this country, and signalled he wanted to
beef up terrorism prevention and investigation measures (Tpims).

However, Downing Street later admitted there was as yet no timetable for
introducing legislation, and they were not certain excluding Britons from the
country would be possible.

Meanwhile, the Liberal Democrats insisted they had not "definitively" signed up
to bolstering Tpims by allowing suspects to be relocated.

Senior coalition figures have been engaged in detailed negotiations about the
package of measures over the weekend, after the UK's terrorist threat level was
raised from substantial to severe.

Addressing the Commons today, Mr Cameron said thousands of European citizens had
gone to fight for IS and there were growing fears about the potential for them
to return and wreak havoc.

"Adhering to British values is not an option or a choice," he said.

"Passports are not an automatic right. The Home Secretary already has the
discretion to issue, revoke and refuse passports under the royal prerogative if
there is reason to believe people are planning to take part in terrorist-related
activity.

"But when police suspect a traveller at the border, they are not currently able
to apply for the royal prerogative and so only have limited stop-and-search
powers.

"We will introduce specific and targeted legislation to fill this gap by
providing the police with a temporary power to seize a passport at the border,
during which time they will be able to investigate the individual concerned.

"This power will include appropriate safeguards and oversight arrangements."

The premier said it was "abhorrent" that British citizens who pledged allegiance
elsewhere were able to return to the UK and pose a threat to national security.

"We are clear in principle that what we need is a targeted discretionary power
to allow us to exclude British nationals from the UK and we'll work proposals on
this basis with our agencies in line with our international obligations and
discuss the details on a cross-party basis," he added.

"We will introduce new powers to add to our existing terrorism prevention and
investigation measures including stronger locational constraints on suspects
under Tpims either through enhanced use of exclusions zones or through
relocation powers."

Airlines will also be hit by tougher rules, including providing information on
passenger lists, or their flights will be blocked from landing in the UK.

But Mr Cameron dismissed London mayor Boris Johnson's call for a presumption
that travel to certain countries was for criminal purposes, describing the idea
as "wrong".

Labour branded the suggestion of barring suspected jihadists from coming back to
this country "vague" and "unclear".

Former Attorney General Dominic Grieve warned it was "probably impossible" to
enforce. "Whilst the person who goes abroad fighting in Syria may technically
commit treason, and indeed should be put on trial perhaps for treason when they
come back, nevertheless they are British nationals and excluding them
unconvicted from coming to this country I think raises some very severe
difficulties," the Tory MP told BBC Radio 4's PM programme.

Ed Miliband pointed out that relocation powers were a central part of the
control order system previously scrapped by the coalition in favour of Tpims.

"With regards to the most serious high risk cases where convictions in the
courts cannot be achieved I welcome your recognition that the Independent
Reviewer on terrorism had made clear the inadequacies of Tpims," he said.

"In particular the inability to relocate suspects away from their communities.

"Relocation was indeed a central part of control orders and it was a mistake to
get rid of them in the first place."

Mr Miliband also urged the Government to introduce a "mandatory and
comprehensive" programme to deradicalise both terror suspects and those who have
been "on the fringes" of extremism in Iraq and Syria.

He criticised ministers for making the Prevent counter-terrorism strategy
"overly focused" on the police response to terrorism, rather than parents and
communities.

Deputy Prime Minister Nick Clegg insisted discussions on the measures had not
"divided the coalition".

"This was not an argument that divided the coalition. Both the PM and myself
want to get the right balance between plugging the gaps where they need to be
plugged to make sure that we keep people in this country safe, but doing so in a
way that is in keeping with our finest traditions of due process and upholding
the rule of law," he said.

But a senior Lib Dem source made clear the extension of Tpims was not a done
deal.

"We have not definitively signed up to introducing relocation powers. We have
agreed to look in detail at the options available to us," the source said.

Downing Street said the plans for seizing passports, excluding British nationals
and toughening TPIMS would all require legislation.

The PM's spokesman said the changes would be brought forward "as swiftly as
possible" although he declined to speculate on whether it would be this year.

He also rejected the idea that the Government was U-turning by re-introducing
locational restriction, arguing that there were still significant differences
between Tpims and the old control order regime.

Mr Cameron was repeatedly pressed by MPs over whether Britain would be willing
to join a "coalition of the willing" to take military action against IS.

The premier declined completely to rule out taking part in air strikes, saying:
"We should use all those things that we have at our disposal but recognise there
isn't some unique military solution that can be put in place."

LOAD-DATE: September 2, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBBELT


           Copyright 2014 Independent News & Media (Northern Ireland)
                              All Rights Reserved

                              399 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                  Guardian.com

                            September 1, 2014 Monday

Tube terror attack warning text messages a hoax, police say

BYLINE: Martin Williamstheguardian.com

LENGTH: 251 words

ABSTRACT

Text messages and social media posts claiming the London Underground was to be
targeted circulated across the weekend

FULL TEXT

Warnings that a terror attack was due to be launched against Britain on Monday
were a hoax, police have said.

Text messages and social media posts claiming that the London Underground was to
be targeted imminently circulated across the weekend. The message read: "They
think there's a terror threat and that it will happen on the tubes tomorrow
around the west end area. So don't go travelling on tubes!! It's better to be
safe than sorry. Please share."

It added the false claim that "every single police officer in the met has been
called into work from 4am onwards".

A Metropolitan police spokesman confirmed the message was a "definite hoax" and
added that it has been in circulation since at least Friday, meaning the attack
predicted would have happened on Saturday.

He said: "These rumours are not uncommon. The only thing that gives them any
credence is people re-tweeting them and circulating them."

The warning appears to have gone viral after the government raised the official
terror threat level to "severe", meaning that a terrorist attack in the UK is
"highly likely". However, Theresa May has said that there is no evidence that an
attack is imminent.

Chief Superintendent Paul Brognal of the British Transport police tweeted:
"Social media contains lots of rumours regarding threats to tube network
tomorrow. There is no specific threat so keep calm & carry on."

LOAD-DATE: September 1, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


   Copyright 2014 Guardian News and Media Limited or its affiliated companies
                              All Rights Reserved
                  Registered in England and Wales. No. 908396
   Registered office: PO Box 68164, Kings Place, 90 York Way, London N1P 2AP

                              400 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                   MailOnline

                     September 1, 2014 Monday 10:12 AM GMT

Spies to vet airline flight lists for returning jihadis as Saudi king warns: '
Terrorists could attack Europe within a month'

BYLINE: IAN DRURY and DAVID WILLIAMS FOR THE DAILY MAIL

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 636 words



     ·    Airlines would be forced to handover more information about passengers
     ·    Flights containing travellers on 'watchlists' may be prevented from
          landing
     ·    Comes as king of Saudi Arabia warns terror strikes could be imminent
     ·    David Cameron set to unveil range of new security measures today
     ·    He wants to ban extremists from returning to UK after fighting abroad


The Prime Minister is to give intelligence agencies the power to vet airline
flight lists in an effort to stop jihadis entering Britain.

The US-style laws would compel all airlines flying into the country to provide
much more information about passengers.

If the name of a traveller appears on a 'watchlist' the plane may not be
permitted to land in the UK unless the person is stopped from boarding.

Scroll down for video

The Government wants to improve the flow of airline passenger data to
intelligence agencies. At present, some airlines do not release their passenger
lists until 30 minutes before flights leave.

There will also be a push to share more data on passengers, but this will run
into difficulties in the European parliament on civil liberties grounds.

The airline flight lists measure is among a number of emergency powers which
will today be unveiled by David Cameron.

It follows a warning by the king of Saudi Arabia that terror groups could attack
in the West within a month.

He said: 'If neglected I'm sure they [terrorists] will reach Europe in a month
and America in another month. The evils of terrorism must be fought with force,
reason and speed.'

At the centrepiece of Mr Cameron's plans will be a temporary ban on British
citizens from coming home if they have travelled to fight alongside Islamist
fanatics.

This would stop short of stripping suspects of their British citizenship and
making them stateless - a breach of international law - but at the same time
prevent them from re-entering.

Under existing laws, the Government has the power to block only foreign
nationals, those with dual citizenship or naturalised citizens.

Mr Cameron and Deputy Prime Minister Nick Clegg were last night thrashing out
the final details ahead of a statement in the Commons this afternoon.

They acted after intelligence chiefs raised the UK's terror threat level to
'severe' - the second highest level - after warnings that a jihadi atrocity was
'highly likely'.

A temporary ban is likely to require major changes to air transport legislation.

A Downing Street source said: 'We need to make sure this is legally robust. It
is a difficult thing to achieve, putting a temporary ban on people without
making them stateless, but it is vital we achieve it.'

Ministers are also considering strengthening Terrorism Prevention and
Investigation Measures - so-called Tpims - which replaced control orders.

The Government is also expected to make it easier to seize the passports of
potential terrorists to prevent them travelling to trouble-zones.

So far, 23 potential jihadis have been barred from leaving. Under the plans,
border guards would be allowed to revoke a fanatic's passport.

Defence Secretary Michael Fallon said new measures were needed to deal with
'gaps in our current armoury' against terrorism.

At least 500 people from the UK are thought to have gone to fight in Syria, but
the number could be as high as 2,000. Security chiefs believe some 250 have
already returned home and may have been brainwashed into launching strikes here.

Up to 20 Britons are believed by Turkish authorities to be waiting in safe
houses for instructions to cross into Syria.

Intelligence and anti-terror specialists are also examining entry records of all
Britons to Turkey, cross-checking those who have left, how long they stayed and
those who have overstayed the 90-day visa period.

Some are said to be using the passports of fellow fighters of similar age and
appearance to avoid detection

LOAD-DATE: September 1, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDM


                   Copyright 2014 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              401 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                 standard.co.uk

                      September 1, 2014 Monday 7:53 AM GMT

Terror attack on London Underground warning hoax, police confirm

BYLINE: Alexandra Rucki

SECTION: LONDON

LENGTH: 230 words


The Metropolitan police have told Londoners to "keep calm and carry on" after a
hoax text warning of a terror attack on the tube was circulated.

A message, which has gone viral, said police were preparing for an imminent
terror attack on the London Underground today.

The message said: "Don't travel on the tubes tomorrow. Every single police
officer in the Met has been called into work from 4am onwards, even people on
holiday are being told to catch the next flight home.

"They think there is a terror threat and that it will happen on the tubes
tomorrow around the West End area. So don't go travelling on the tubes! It's
better to be safe than sorry."

The message then asks the receiver to pass it on to all of their friends.

Related stories

A Metropolitan spokesman confirmed the message was a hoax, saying "this rumour
is completely untrue."

Chief Superintendent Paul Brogden of the British Transport police tweeted:
"Social media contains lots of rumours regarding threats to tube network
tomorrow. There is no specific threat so keep calm & carry on."

The hoax comes after the government raised the terror threat from substantial to
severe, the second highest state, amid fears of returning jihadists from Syria
and Iraq.

The severe warning means a terror attack is "highly likely", although Home
Secretary Theresa May has stressed there was no intelligence about a specific
attack.

LOAD-DATE: September 1, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBES


                    Copyright 2014 Evening Standard Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              402 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                      September 1, 2014 Monday 6:21 PM GMT

Sketch: Restricted by freedom;
David Cameron tells the House of Commons that the Government plans to introduce
new powers to defend Britain from terrorist attacks by Islamic extremists

BYLINE: By Michael Deacon Parliamentary Sketchwriter

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 504 words


With the terrorist threat level now raised to "severe", David Cameron has been
trying to work out how to stop Britain being attacked by home-grown jihadists.
Having considered proposals such as the cancellation of suspects' passports and
stripping them of British citizenship, the Prime Minister is determined to
protect our freedom. Only one thing appears to be hindering him. Our freedom.

That's the trouble with freedom. It gives freedom to those who want to abuse
freedom. To defend our freedom we need to restrict their freedom. The problem
is, we don't have complete freedom to restrict their freedom; our freedom
restricts us from restricting it. Protecting our precious freedom would be so
much easier, the Prime Minister must sometimes reflect, if it weren't for our
blasted freedom.

Still, he's spent some time puzzling over what he is free to do, and this
afternoon he made a statement to the Commons. The police, he said, would be
given powers to confiscate a terror suspect's passport at the border. In
addition, the Government planned to introduce "discretionary" powers to prevent
suspects returning to Britain.

Mr Cameron's statement included what political journalists traditionally term a
"veiled swipe" at Boris Johnson. "Some have said we should criminalise travel to
certain individual countries, or fundamentally change our criminal burden of
proof," observed the Prime Minister, naming no names. "The Government is clear
that it would be wrong."

The Mayor of London, incidentally, was born in New York. It is not thought that
his British passport is in danger of being confiscated at this stage, although
this may be subject to change, depending on the severity of his threat to the
Prime Minister.

Mr Cameron also promised a strengthening of our Terrorism Prevention and
Investigation Measures. However strong these measures are, it's a pity the
Government keeps referring to them as "Tpims", a word unlikely to strike fear
into the breast of the bloodthirsty jihadist. Try saying it aloud. "Tpims." It
sounds like something Mr Cameron might take on the lawn with the lovely Samantha
after a hard afternoon's croquet.

MPs were largely supportive of the Prime Minister's proposals, although there
was dissent from Dominic Grieve (Con, Beaconsfield). Blocking the return to the
UK of British terror suspects, he complained, would "offend basic principles of
our common law". Mr Grieve would no doubt have made this protest in private
rather than in public, if only Mr Cameron hadn't sacked him as Attorney General
two months ago.

The Prime Minister also received a word of warning from Sir Peter Tapsell, the
venerable Father of the House, who has been serving as an MP since before Mr
Cameron was born. Regardless of how many British jihadists were fighting "in
Arabia" - as Sir Peter called it - we must avoid intervening "in religious civil
war which has already lasted for 1,300 years".

Sir Peter is a noted expert on this ancient conflict, having first entered the
Commons just before it broke out.

LOAD-DATE: September 1, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTNS


                  Copyright 2014 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              403 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                      September 1, 2014 Monday 7:47 AM GMT

Hoax London terror attack message causes panic;
Met Police says message warning of imminent terror attack on the London
Underground is a hoax

BYLINE: By Josie Ensor

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 233 words


The Metropolitan police has been forced to quash rumours of an imminent terror
attack on London after a hoax message was distributed.

The text, which was widely shared on social media, warned that police were
preparing for a major attack on the Underground this week.

The message read: "They think there's a terror threat and that it will happen on
the tubes tomorrow around the west end area. So don't go travelling on tubes!!
It's better to be safe than sorry. Please share."

It also falsely claimed that "every single police officer in the met has been
called into work from 4am onwards".

A Metropolitan police spokesman confirmed the message was a "definite hoax",
saying "these rumours are not uncommon. The only thing that gives them any
credence is people re-tweeting them and circulating them."

Chief Superintendent Paul Brogden of the British Transport police tweeted:
"Social media contains lots of rumours regarding threats to tube network
tomorrow. There is no specific threat so keep calm & carry on."

Social media contains lots of rumours regarding threats to tube network
tomorrow. There is no specific threat so keep calm & carry on. 1/2

- Ch Supt Paul Brogden (@BTP_B_Division) August 31, 2014

David Cameron said the public could expect to see an increase in high-profile
police patrols, including the greater use of armed officers, particularly at
airports and major railway stations.

LOAD-DATE: September 1, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTNS


                  Copyright 2014 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              404 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                      September 1, 2014 Monday 6:47 AM GMT

Fake London terror attack message causes panic;
Met Police says message warning of imminent terror attack on the London
Underground is a hoax

BYLINE: By Josie Ensor

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 289 words


The Metropolitan police has been forced to quash rumours of an imminent terror
attack on London after a hoax message was distributed.

The text, which was widely shared on social media, warned that police were
preparing for a major attack on the Underground this week.

The message read: "They think there's a terror threat and that it will happen on
the tubes tomorrow around the west end area. So don't go travelling on tubes!!
It's better to be safe than sorry. Please share."

It also falsely claimed that "every single police officer in the met has been
called into work from 4am onwards".

A Metropolitan police spokesman confirmed the message was a "definite hoax",
saying "these rumours are not uncommon. The only thing that gives them any
credence is people re-tweeting them and circulating them."

Chief Superintendent Paul Brogden of the British Transport police tweeted:
"Social media contains lots of rumours regarding threats to tube network
tomorrow. There is no specific threat so keep calm & carry on."

Social media contains lots of rumours regarding threats to tube network
tomorrow. There is no specific threat so keep calm & carry on. 1/2

- Ch Supt Paul Brogden (@BTP_B_Division) August 31, 2014

Theresa May, the Home Secretary, last week raised the official threat level from
"substantial" to "severe", the second-highest state - for the first time in
three years.

Mrs May said the intelligence services now believe a terror attack in Britain is
"highly likely", although she stressed there was no information about any
specific plot.

David Cameron said the public could expect to see an increase in high-profile
police patrols, including the greater use of armed officers, particularly at
airports and major railway stations.

LOAD-DATE: September 1, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTNS


                  Copyright 2014 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              405 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                           Aberdeen Press and Journal

                           September 2, 2014 Tuesday

Terror attack gas plant goes back online after 18 months

BYLINE: Ryan Crighton

SECTION: NEWS; 999; Campaigns; Pg. 32

LENGTH: 296 words


Statoil has announced that normal operations are resuming at the In Amenas gas
plant in Algeria   more than 18 months after a raid by Islamist militants killed
40 employees.

Around 800 people were at In Amenas when it was stormed in January last year.

Among them was father-of-two Alan Wright, from Portsoy, who managed to escape
through a hole in a fence.

Twenty-nine militants were also killed during a three-day siege at the Sahara
Desert installation, which was operated by BP, Statoil and Algerian firm
Sonatrach.

An investigation into the tragedy concluded that the safety measures were not
designed to withstand such an attack.

Five Statoil employees were among the people killed when the attack took place
and the firm has kept permanent workers away from the plant since.

But last night the company revealed that normal operations were resuming.

"The corporate executive committee has decided that ordinary rotation (of staff)
is to be resumed at the plant as all defined security measures have been
implemented," a spokesman said.

Security at the plant, which produced about 11.5% of Algeria's natural gas
output before the attack, has been heightened, Statoil said.

There is greater control of people coming near the installations and an airport
has been built inside the site. A company investigation concluded last year the
operators did not have the security measures necessary to deal with a major
event.

"The investigative report pointed out that we relied too much on the presence of
local forces," said the spokesman

"We have now an improved dialogue with Algerian security authorities and other
authorities." He added: "The general security situation in the region is
challenging.

"Safety at the plant is greatly improved but we will continuously monitor the
situation."

LOAD-DATE: September 2, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: BACK TO WORK: The In Amenas gas field is jointly operated by BP,
Statoil and state-run Algerian energy firm Sonatrach

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: PJ


                      Copyright 2014 Aberdeen Journals Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                              406 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                            Belfast Telegraph Online

                     September 2, 2014 Tuesday 9:07 AM GMT

'Vague' anti-terror plans attacked

SECTION: UK

LENGTH: 1196 words


Coalition plans to counter the threat from British jihadists have been
criticised as "vague" and potentially unenforceable.

David Cameron told MPs police will be given powers to seize passports from UK
nationals suspected of going to fight for Islamic State (IS) in Iraq or Syria.

The Prime Minister said officials were also "working up" proposals to bar
British extremists from returning to this country, and signalled he wanted to
beef up terrorism prevention and investigation measures (Tpims).

However, Downing Street later admitted there was as yet no timetable for
introducing legislation, and they were not certain excluding Britons from the
country would be possible.

Meanwhile, the Liberal Democrats insisted they had not "definitively" signed up
to bolstering Tpims by allowing suspects to be relocated.

Senior coalition figures have been engaged in detailed negotiations about the
package of measures over the weekend, after the UK's terrorist threat level was
raised from substantial to severe.

Addressing the Commons yesterday, Mr Cameron said thousands of European citizens
had gone to fight for IS and there were growing fears about the potential for
them to return and wreak havoc.

"Adhering to British values is not an option or a choice," he said.

"Passports are not an automatic right. The Home Secretary already has the
discretion to issue, revoke and refuse passports under the royal prerogative if
there is reason to believe people are planning to take part in terrorist-related
activity.

"But when police suspect a traveller at the border, they are not currently able
to apply for the royal prerogative and so only have limited stop-and-search
powers.

"We will introduce specific and targeted legislation to fill this gap by
providing the police with a temporary power to seize a passport at the border,
during which time they will be able to investigate the individual concerned.

"This power will include appropriate safeguards and oversight arrangements."

The premier said it was "abhorrent" that British citizens who pledged allegiance
elsewhere were able to return to the UK and pose a threat to national security.

"We are clear in principle that what we need is a targeted discretionary power
to allow us to exclude British nationals from the UK and we'll work proposals on
this basis with our agencies in line with our international obligations and
discuss the details on a cross-party basis," he added.

"We will introduce new powers to add to our existing terrorism prevention and
investigation measures including stronger locational constraints on suspects
under Tpims either through enhanced use of exclusions zones or through
relocation powers."

Airlines will also be hit by tougher rules, including providing information on
passenger lists, or their flights will be blocked from landing in the UK.

But Mr Cameron dismissed London mayor Boris Johnson's call for a presumption
that travel to certain countries was for criminal purposes, describing the idea
as "wrong".

Labour branded the suggestion of barring suspected jihadists from coming back to
this country "vague" and "unclear".

Former attorney general Dominic Grieve warned it was "probably impossible" to
enforce.

"Whilst the person who goes abroad fighting in Syria may technically commit
treason, and indeed should be put on trial perhaps for treason when they come
back, nevertheless they are British nationals and excluding them unconvicted
from coming to this country I think raises some very severe difficulties," the
Tory MP told BBC Radio 4's PM programme.

Ed Miliband pointed out that relocation powers were a central part of the
control order system previously scrapped by the coalition in favour of Tpims.

"With regards to the most serious high risk cases where convictions in the
courts cannot be achieved I welcome your recognition that the Independent
Reviewer on terrorism had made clear the inadequacies of Tpims," he said.

"In particular the inability to relocate suspects away from their communities.

"Relocation was indeed a central part of control orders and it was a mistake to
get rid of them in the first place."

Mr Miliband also urged the Government to introduce a "mandatory and
comprehensive" programme to deradicalise both terror suspects and those who have
been "on the fringes" of extremism in Iraq and Syria.

He criticised ministers for making the Prevent counter-terrorism strategy
"overly focused" on the police response to terrorism, rather than parents and
communities.

Deputy Prime Minister Nick Clegg insisted discussions on the measures had not
"divided the coalition".

"This was not an argument that divided the coalition. Both the PM and myself
want to get the right balance between plugging the gaps where they need to be
plugged to make sure that we keep people in this country safe, but doing so in a
way that is in keeping with our finest traditions of due process and upholding
the rule of law," he said.

But a senior Lib Dem source made clear the extension of Tpims was not a done
deal.

"We have not definitively signed up to introducing relocation powers. We have
agreed to look in detail at the options available to us," the source said.

Downing Street said the plans for seizing passports, excluding British nationals
and toughening TPIMS would all require legislation.

The PM's spokesman said the changes would be brought forward "as swiftly as
possible" although he declined to speculate on whether it would be this year.

He also rejected the idea that the Government was U-turning by re-introducing
locational restriction, arguing that there were still significant differences
between Tpims and the old control order regime.

Mr Cameron was repeatedly pressed by MPs over whether Britain would be willing
to join a "coalition of the willing" to take military action against IS.

The premier refused completely to rule out taking part in air strikes, saying:
"We should use all those things that we have at our disposal but recognise there
isn't some unique military solution that can be put in place."

Mr Clegg backed the Prime Minister's comments yesterday that he is prepared to
"act immediately" to take military action if there is a direct threat to
Britain.

The Deputy Prime Minister told BBC Breakfast: "What the Prime Minister was
saying, which is something everyone has accepted, is, if there are ever
circumstances where a state needs to act, if you like, overnight in order to
protect our security, then sometimes it is just not practically feasible to ask
for a parliamentary vote beforehand."

Mr Clegg repeatedly sidestepped questions over whether the possibility of
stripping suspected British jihadis of their citizenship was now effectively
dead in the water but said proposals must meet international law.

He told the BBC Radio 4 Today programme: "It's not a question of whether I will
or won't let it happen.

"We are not going to do something which flouts international and domestic law.
We must act within the law."

The Deputy Prime Minister insisted that the Government "can square the circle"
of filling the gaps in Britain's terror laws while remaining within
international obligations.

LOAD-DATE: September 2, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBBELT


           Copyright 2014 Independent News & Media (Northern Ireland)
                              All Rights Reserved

                              407 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                            Belfast Telegraph Online

                     September 2, 2014 Tuesday 8:02 AM GMT

'Vague' anti-terror plans attacked

SECTION: UK

LENGTH: 1096 words


Coalition plans to counter the threat from British jihadists have been
criticised as "vague" and potentially unenforceable.

David Cameron told MPs police will be given powers to seize passports from UK
nationals suspected of going to fight for Islamic State (IS) in Iraq or Syria.

The Prime Minister said officials were also "working up" proposals to bar
British extremists from returning to this country, and signalled he wanted to
beef up terrorism prevention and investigation measures (Tpims).

However, Downing Street later admitted there was as yet no timetable for
introducing legislation, and they were not certain excluding Britons from the
country would be possible.

Meanwhile, the Liberal Democrats insisted they had not "definitively" signed up
to bolstering Tpims by allowing suspects to be relocated.

Senior coalition figures have been engaged in detailed negotiations about the
package of measures over the weekend, after the UK's terrorist threat level was
raised from substantial to severe.

Addressing the Commons yesterday, Mr Cameron said thousands of European citizens
had gone to fight for IS and there were growing fears about the potential for
them to return and wreak havoc.

"Adhering to British values is not an option or a choice," he said.

"Passports are not an automatic right. The Home Secretary already has the
discretion to issue, revoke and refuse passports under the royal prerogative if
there is reason to believe people are planning to take part in terrorist-related
activity.

"But when police suspect a traveller at the border, they are not currently able
to apply for the royal prerogative and so only have limited stop-and-search
powers.

"We will introduce specific and targeted legislation to fill this gap by
providing the police with a temporary power to seize a passport at the border,
during which time they will be able to investigate the individual concerned.

"This power will include appropriate safeguards and oversight arrangements."

The premier said it was "abhorrent" that British citizens who pledged allegiance
elsewhere were able to return to the UK and pose a threat to national security.

"We are clear in principle that what we need is a targeted discretionary power
to allow us to exclude British nationals from the UK and we'll work proposals on
this basis with our agencies in line with our international obligations and
discuss the details on a cross-party basis," he added.

"We will introduce new powers to add to our existing terrorism prevention and
investigation measures including stronger locational constraints on suspects
under Tpims either through enhanced use of exclusions zones or through
relocation powers."

Airlines will also be hit by tougher rules, including providing information on
passenger lists, or their flights will be blocked from landing in the UK.

But Mr Cameron dismissed London mayor Boris Johnson's call for a presumption
that travel to certain countries was for criminal purposes, describing the idea
as "wrong".

Labour branded the suggestion of barring suspected jihadists from coming back to
this country "vague" and "unclear".

Former attorney general Dominic Grieve warned it was "probably impossible" to
enforce.

"Whilst the person who goes abroad fighting in Syria may technically commit
treason, and indeed should be put on trial perhaps for treason when they come
back, nevertheless they are British nationals and excluding them unconvicted
from coming to this country I think raises some very severe difficulties," the
Tory MP told BBC Radio 4's PM programme.

Ed Miliband pointed out that relocation powers were a central part of the
control order system previously scrapped by the coalition in favour of Tpims.

"With regards to the most serious high risk cases where convictions in the
courts cannot be achieved I welcome your recognition that the Independent
Reviewer on terrorism had made clear the inadequacies of Tpims," he said.

"In particular the inability to relocate suspects away from their communities.

"Relocation was indeed a central part of control orders and it was a mistake to
get rid of them in the first place."

Mr Miliband also urged the Government to introduce a "mandatory and
comprehensive" programme to deradicalise both terror suspects and those who have
been "on the fringes" of extremism in Iraq and Syria.

He criticised ministers for making the Prevent counter-terrorism strategy
"overly focused" on the police response to terrorism, rather than parents and
communities.

Deputy Prime Minister Nick Clegg insisted discussions on the measures had not
"divided the coalition".

"This was not an argument that divided the coalition. Both the PM and myself
want to get the right balance between plugging the gaps where they need to be
plugged to make sure that we keep people in this country safe, but doing so in a
way that is in keeping with our finest traditions of due process and upholding
the rule of law," he said.

But a senior Lib Dem source made clear the extension of Tpims was not a done
deal.

"We have not definitively signed up to introducing relocation powers. We have
agreed to look in detail at the options available to us," the source said.

Downing Street said the plans for seizing passports, excluding British nationals
and toughening TPIMS would all require legislation.

The PM's spokesman said the changes would be brought forward "as swiftly as
possible" although he declined to speculate on whether it would be this year.

He also rejected the idea that the Government was U-turning by re-introducing
locational restriction, arguing that there were still significant differences
between Tpims and the old control order regime.

Mr Cameron was repeatedly pressed by MPs over whether Britain would be willing
to join a "coalition of the willing" to take military action against IS.

The premier refused completely to rule out taking part in air strikes, saying:
"We should use all those things that we have at our disposal but recognise there
isn't some unique military solution that can be put in place."

Mr Clegg backed the Prime Minister's comments yesterday that he is prepared to
"act immediately" to take military action if there is a direct threat to
Britain.

The Deputy Prime Minister told BBC Breakfast: "What the Prime Minister was
saying, which is something everyone has accepted, is, if there are ever
circumstances where a state needs to act, if you like, overnight in order to
protect our security, then sometimes it is just not practically feasible to ask
for a parliamentary vote beforehand."

LOAD-DATE: September 2, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBBELT


           Copyright 2014 Independent News & Media (Northern Ireland)
                              All Rights Reserved

                              408 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                getsurrey.co.uk

                     September 2, 2014 Tuesday 9:35 AM GMT

Morning news headlines: Release Ashya parents, anti-terror plans attacked, photo
hack probed;
The latest news from around the globe

BYLINE: By Neil Macdonald

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 947 words


The parents of five-year-old brain cancer patient Ashya King have spent another
night away from their son as relatives and supporters continued to demand their
release from detention.

A judge in Spain ruled that Brett and Naghmeh King must be held for up to 72
hours while the court considers whether to grant a British extradition request.

The couple, who were arrested in Spain after Ashya was taken from a UK hospital
without doctors' consent, told the judge in Madrid they do not want to return to
the UK.            'Vague' anti-terror plans attacked

Coalition plans to counter the threat from British jihadists have been
criticised as "vague" and potentially unenforceable.

David Cameron told MPs police will be given powers to seize passports from UK
nationals suspected of going to fight for Islamic State (IS) in Iraq or Syria.

The Prime Minister said officials were also "working up" proposals to bar
British extremists from returning to this country, and signalled he wanted to
beef up terrorism prevention and investigation measures (Tpims).
Launch for free school meals scheme

Almost two million infants will receive a free lunch from today under a new £1
billion scheme, amid ongoing concerns about its cost.

The major new initiative, first announced by Deputy Prime Minister and Lib Dem
leader Nick Clegg last year, will see every five to seven-year-old at England's
16,500 primary schools eligible for free dinners.

Ministers have insisted that the move will save families up to £400 per year as
well having health and education benefits for youngsters.            Steep rise
in skin cancer figures

The number of people admitted to hospital for skin cancer has increased by 41%
in just five years, new figures show.

There has been a "significant" rise in admissions for skin cancers, which are
largely preventable, the British Association of Dermatologists said.

The data, which will be presented at the World Congress On Cancers Of The Skin
in Edinburgh later this week, show that admissions to English hospitals for both
non melanoma skin cancer and malignant melanoma rose from 87,685 in 2007 to
123,808 in 2011.            FBI and Apple probe photos hack

Apple and the FBI are investigating an online hack that led to the posting of
hundreds of explicit photos of some of Hollywood's most famous female stars.

The leak saw British names including model Cara Delevigne and former Downton
Abbey actress Jessica Brown Findlay linked to the list of around 100 famous
people whose intimate pictures had reportedly been posted online.

Initial reports concluded that Apple's iCloud service had been compromised to
access the images.            BBC and police face Cliff grilling

The Director-General of the BBC and Chief Constable of South Yorkshire Police
will be questioned by MPs today over the handling of the search of Sir Cliff
Richard's home.

Force head David Crompton and Lord Tony Hall will face the Home Affairs Select
Committee following a row sparked when the BBC broke news of the search of the
pop star's Berkshire penthouse.

Sir Cliff's apartment was searched by officers from South Yorkshire and Thames
Valley Police last month as part of an investigation into an alleged sexual
assault on a young boy at a religious event in 1985. A BBC crew reportedly
arrived on the scene before the police.            Johnson angry over 'Boris
Island'

London Mayor Boris Johnson has accused the Airports Commission of setting the
debate on aviation expansion back by half a century, ahead of an announcement
this morning that his plan for a new airport in east London has been rejected.

The thumbs-down for the plan, which could have seen a four-runway brand new
airport dubbed Boris Island Thames Estuary built to the east of London, is due
to come from the Whitehall-appointed Airports Commission.

Mr Johnson told of his disappointment ahead of the news being made official, but
said he will press ahead with his plans and added that he remains confident his
scheme will eventually come to fruition.            Payday loan debt problems
soar

The number of people struggling to cope with payday loan debts has risen by more
than 13,000 in the past year, figures show.

Debt charity StepChange said it dealt with 43,716 people in the first six months
of this year, compared with 30,762 for the same period last year.

The figures, showing that the charity has handled more than £72 million in debts
in the first half of 2014, highlight the need for further action to ensure
better protection for vulnerable people who might consider taking a loan, it
said.            Bake Off Berry fears being a burden

Great British Bake Off star Mary Berry has said she does not want to live beyond
90 and that she would like her children to be able to "give me a pill" if her
health deteriorated and she became a "burden".

The 79-year-old cookery writer turned TV star, who is exploring her family roots
in BBC1 genealogy show Who Do You Think You Are?, has seen her career blossom
late in life.

But she said she did not want to follow in the footsteps of her mother, who
lived until she was 105.            British activist faces Thai trial

A British human rights activist who investigated alleged abuses at a Thai fruit
processing factory has gone on trial in the first in a series of criminal
lawsuits filed against him by the company.

Natural Fruit is accusing activist Andy Hall of defamation in the wake of a
report he helped write last year for the Finland-based watchdog group Finnwatch
which detailed poor labour conditions in seafood and pineapple export companies
in Thailand.

The report investigated a factory owned by Natural Fruit that employs hundreds
of migrants from neighbouring Burma.

LOAD-DATE: September 2, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBSUR


                      Copyright 2014 Trinity Mirror, Plc.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              409 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                            i-Independent Print Ltd

                               September 2, 2014
                                 First Edition

Isis 'plotting US and Europe attacks';
TERRORISM

BYLINE: Philip Elliott

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 148 words


Cities in Europe and the US are being eyed as Isis militants' future targets and
President Barack Obama needs to take action, US officials have said.

Leaders of the Senate and House intelligence committees on Sunday said the White
House should work to prevent the extremists from launching attacks on US soil.
Politicians in the Senate issued a warning about Isis, which now has control of
vast swathes of Syria and Iraq, killed civilians from those regions and beheaded
the American journalist James Foley (pictured).

"This is a group of people who are extraordinarily dangerous," said Senator
Dianne Feinstein, the California Democrat who leads the Senate intelligence
panel. "And they'll kill with abandon."

In a separate interview, the leader of the House Intelligence Committee warned
that Isis is looking for a spectacular attack that would help it to raise money
and recruit more fighters.

LOAD-DATE: September 1, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: III


                    Copyright 2014 Independent Print Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              410 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                               Independent.co.uk

                     September 2, 2014 Tuesday 5:19 PM GMT

The Glasgow teenager who dropped out of university to marry an Isis fighter in
Syria;
Aqsa Mahmood has urged British Muslims to carry out terrorist attacks

BYLINE: Lizzie Dearden

SECTION: FRONTPAGE

LENGTH: 836 words


A young woman from Glasgow who dropped out of university to travel to Syria and
marry an Islamic State (Isis) fighter has been named as Aqsa Mahmood.

Tweeting under the name Umm Layth, she has encouraged British Muslims to join
Isis and called for terrorist attacks on UK soil following the example of
"brothers from Woolwich, Texas and Boston".

Scottish Police confirmed the 20-year-old, named by the Daily Mail, was reported
missing by her family in November last year and work was ongoing to locate her.

Her Twitter account, which was deactivated on Tuesday, features pictures of life
under Isis in Syria and accounts of the "jihad" of her husband and other
fighters supported by their fanatical young wives.

Her posts frequently encourage British Muslims to join Isis and in June, she
called on people to launch terrorist attacks in Western countries.

She wrote: "Follow the example of your Brothers from Woolwich, Texas and Boston
etc. Have no fear as Allah swt [glory to god] is always with the Believers.

"Whoever carries out an individual operation (in USA/UK/FRANCE etc) against any
country that is openly waging a war against Muslims and oppressing them.

"He must realise that he is in fact participating in the Jihad alongside his
Mujahedeen brothers & that his operation is not less important than the
operations his brothees [sic] undertake in the lands of Jihad that are open."

Read more: 'I want to be the first UK woman to kill a Westerner', says female
British jihadist in SyriaL Jinny: London rapper turned jihadist believed to be
under investigation for James Foley beheadingBRITISH FIGHTERS 'MAKE UP A QUARTER
OF FOREIGN JIHADISTS'

She has been spreading extremist material since early 2013, when she opened a
tumblr account dedicated to religious extremism, sharing quotes from the Korean
and hadiths about jihad and duty alongside pictures of Syrian war zones.

By October, Mahmood had openly stated her support for Isis and joining the
group's jihad and on 14 November, a picture was posted of a plane flying at
sunset with the message "sometimes, it's better to leave it all and just
breathe".

The teenager's family are believed to have been unaware of her intentions and
Mahmood had previously hinted at their attempts to curb her radicalisation, once
moaning that they had taken away her extremist texts and told her to study for
her university course instead.

Since arriving in Syria, she has advised other women how to join her and in
April wrote a packing list for Westerners travelling to live under Isis.

Despite acknowledging the discomfort of "skin-tight abayas", freezing winters,
power cuts and unreliable internet connections, she claims to be satisfied in
her new life.

"We are created to be mothers and wives - as much as the western society has
warped your views on this with a hidden feminist mentality," she wrote.

Mahmood has described her husband as a Syrian fighter and recounted a dream she
believed was prophetic on Twitter saying she would have their child.

The last location referred to is Raqqa, where Isis has made its stronghold since
overrunning government loyalists in March, executing civilians from religious
minorities and violently enforcing its interpretation of sharia law.

Mahmood is one of up to 500 British citizens, mainly men, believed to have
travelled to Syria to join Isis.

Another woman, known as Khadijah Dare, appeared in a Channel 4 documentary last
year on life with her Isis fighter husband and said she wanted to be the first
woman to kill a "UK or US terrorist" in Syria in the wake of James Foley's
murder.

The American journalist was beheaded by an Isis militant with a London accent
last month known as "jihadi John", thought to be a member of a trio of
terrorists from the UK.

One of the suspects under investigation was believed to be Londoner Abdel-Majed
Abdel Bary, known by his rapping name L Jinny, who travelled to Syria to join
Isis last year.

David Cameron said the Government was doing all it could to stop people being
radicalised and travelling abroad but needed stronger legal powers.

Speaking on Monday, he said existing terrorism prevention and investigation
measures would be boosted and powers to revoke or refuse passports to suspected
extremists would be used.

"We have also stepped up our operational response, with a fivefold increase in
Syria-related arrests and the removal of 28,000 pieces of extremist material
from the internet this year alone, including 46 ISIL-related videos," he said.

A spokesman for the Home Office said: "We have excluded more preachers of hate
than any other UK government and the police regularly disrupt events which
feature extremist preachers. Since 2010, we have taken down over 47,000 pieces
of illegal terrorist material from the internet.

"Our priority is to dissuade people from travelling to areas of conflict such as
Syria or Iraq in the first place. We have a wide range of powers at our disposal
to disrupt travel and manage the risk posed by returnees, including prosecuting
those who break the law."

LOAD-DATE: September 2, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBI


           Copyright 2014 Independent Digital News and Media Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              411 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                               Independent.co.uk

                     September 2, 2014 Tuesday 10:12 AM GMT

US forces attack al-Shabaab Islamist group in Somalia after terrorist attack on
prison;
Fighters detonated a car bomb and raided the prison trying to free militants

BYLINE: Lizzie Dearden

SECTION: AFRICA

LENGTH: 493 words


US forces have attacked al-Shabaab militants in Somalia in an operation
reportedly targeting the Islamist group's leader.

The Pentagon confirmed the strike on Monday but did not confirm its results,
saying more information would be given at an "appropriate" time.

A senior Somali intelligence official said an American drone targeted its
leader, Ahmed Abdi Godane, as he left a meeting of the group's top leaders.

Also known as Mukhtar Abu Zubeyr, he is the group's spiritual leader under who
forged an alliance with al-Qa'ida.

Read more: Somali woman killed by al-Shabaab gunman 'for not wearing
veil'Al-Shabaab claims responsibility for Kenyan bus attack that left seven dead
Britons warned to avoid terror-affected parts of Kenyan coast after latest spate
of attacks

Speaking on condition of anonymity, the Somali official said intelligence
indicated Godane "might have been killed along with other militants" in the
attack in a forest used to train fighters near Sablale district, 105 miles south
of Mogadishu.

The governor of Somalia's Lower Shabelle region, Abdiqadir Mohamed Nor, told the
Associated Press that the drone strike sounded like an "earthquake".

"There was an airstrike near Sablale. We saw something," he said after
travelling through Sablale with government and African Union forces.

The action came after Somalia's forces regained control of a high-security
prison in the capital that was attacked on Sunday by seven heavily armed
suspected militants in an attempt to free other extremists.

Somali officials said all the seven attackers, three government soldiers and two
civilians were killed.

Godka Jilacow prison is an interrogation centre for Somalia's intelligence
agency and many suspected militants are believed to be held in underground cells
there.

Al-Shabaab claimed responsibility for the attack that shattered a brief period
of calm in Mogadishu after two decades of violence.

It started when a suicide bomber detonated a car full of explosives at the
prison gates, followed by gunmen who fought their way inside.

Al-Shabaab was also behind a terrorist attack on a bus in Kenya last month and
the shooting at the Westgate shopping centre in Nairobi that killed 67 people,
including six Britons in 2013.

The US has carried out several air strikes in Somalia recent years, killing a
high-ranking al-Shabaab intelligence officer in January and its top explosives
expert in October.

The terrorist group has often stated that its attacks are due to the continued
presence of Kenyan troops in Somalia, which were sent in 2011 to help the
UN-backed government defeat al-Shabaab and other Islamist militant groups.

In retaliation it has carried out a number of attacks on Kenyan soil, killing
hundreds of people.

It is now mostly active in Somalia's rural regions after being ousted from the
capital by African Union forces in 2011 and military officials launched a
military operation to oust al-Shabaab from its last remaining bases last week.

LOAD-DATE: September 2, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBI


           Copyright 2014 Independent Digital News and Media Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              412 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                   MailOnline

                     September 2, 2014 Tuesday 6:46 PM GMT

Growing public alarm over terror threat with 74% fearing an attack now 'likely'
and one in 10 worried for the safety of their family

BYLINE: TOM MCTAGUE, MAILONLINE DEPUTY POLITICAL EDITOR

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 436 words



     ·    Three quarters believe further terrorist attack on Britain is now
          'likely'
     ·    Eight per cent say there is a 'good chance' friends and family are at
          risk
     ·    Revelation comes after the PM unveiled a host of anti-terror measures
     ·    Plans thrown into disarray amid Lib Dem concern over international law


Three quarters of the public believe there will be a further terrorist attack on
Britain - while almost one in 10 fear for their family and friends, a poll has
revealed today.

The revelation comes after the Prime Minister unveiled a host of anti-terror
measures to target extremists in the UK yesterday. He said a terror attack on
Britain was now 'highly likely' after the threat level was raised to 'severe'
last week.

But Mr Cameron's proposed crackdown was thrown into disarray last night after
the Deputy Prime Minister Nick Clegg insisted one of the key proposals could be
illegal.

Speaking to the BBC this morning, Mr Clegg repeatedly sidestepped questions over
whether stripping suspected British jihadis of their citizenship was now
effectively dead in the water after blocking the proposal over fears it would
break international law.

He told the BBC Radio 4 Today programme: 'It's not a question of whether I will
or won't let it happen. We are not going to do something which flouts
international and domestic law. We must act within the law.'

Mr Clegg's opposition to the measure risks allowing the Conservatives to claim
they are being held back from passing tougher anti-terror measures.

But the Deputy Prime Minister insisted the Government 'can square the circle' of
filling the gaps in Britain's terror laws while remaining within international
obligations.

It comes amid growing concern in Britain over the threat posed by Islamist
extremists fighting for ISIS.

A new poll released this morning for the Times newspaper revealed Britons
believe the threat of terrorism has increased over the past five years.

The YouGov survey found 45 per cent felt more endangered than before - with just
13 per cent saying the threat has decreased. A further four in 10 said the
threat had not changed.

Britons travelling abroad are ever more in danger, the public now believe. Some
67 per cent believe the threat posed to Britons overseas has increased. Just
five per cent think this is not the case.

The public are overwhelmingly of the view that a terrorist attack on Britain is
likely.

Some 74 per cent think it likely there will be further attack on British
citizens - compared to just 15 per cent who think it unlikely.

Almost one in 10 Britons also believe there is a 'good chance' that their circle
of friends and family are at risk.

LOAD-DATE: September 2, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDM


                   Copyright 2014 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              413 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                   MailOnline

                     September 2, 2014 Tuesday 11:26 AM GMT

Jihadi John suspect 'wanted to target American music festival': Former manager
feared rapper was using music career as cover to enter US and carry out terror
attack

BYLINE: RICHARD SPILLETT FOR MAILONLINE

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 483 words



     ·    Abdel-Majed Abdel Bary is suspected of killing U.S. journalist James
          Foley
     ·    He previously performed as a rapper before turning to extremism
     ·    Music managers in the U.S. say he wanted to perform at festival there
     ·    But they turned him down for slot on stage after hearing of his links
          to jihad


The British jihadist suspected of killing US journalist James Foley sparked
fears of a terror attack at a music festival when he asked to perform before a
huge crowd, it emerged today.

Abdel-Majed Abdel Bary - thought to have been behind Mr Foley's gruesome murder
in Syria - raised worries among music bosses while trying to get work as a
rapper.

He reportedly asked music industry figures in Los Angeles to 'get him to
America' before turning angry when he was turned down over his links to
extremism.

Scroll down for video

Bary - suspected of being the 'Jihadi John' terrorist - performed under the name
L Jinny before leaving his parents' £1million home in Maida Vale to fight in
Syria.

He has since been named as a prime suspect in the killing of Mr Foley, who was
shown being killed by an extremist with a London accent in a video broadcast
around the world last month.

The Sun today reported that American music managers Jeff Crawford and Jennifer
Harris-Crawford became concerned about Bary when he asked them to help him
perform at the popular U.S. music festival Coachella.

After initially expressing interest in his music, they pulled out when they
discovered his father, Adel Abdel Bary, was awaiting trial for terror charges.

Ms Harris-Crawford told the paper: 'He could be performing and also arranging
bombs there. I had this vision of something horrible happening.'

The couple said Bary sent them angry messages after they withdrew offers of
support and sent them lyrics to a rap which involved references to beheadings,
it was reported.

It emerged last week that Bary's 54-year-old father is now locked up in New York
awaiting trial for the bombing of embassies in Kenya and Tanzania.

Early photos of Bary posted online show him wearing western clothes such as
Adidas hoodies and rapping in a recording studio.

But later images show him in military fatigues and a mask wielding a machine
gun, an AK-47 and an M16 assault rifle.

He is one of three British men who have emerged as potential identities for the
masked extremist who killed Mr Foley in the brutal propaganda video which
shocked the world last month.

The three men, all in their early twenties, are thought to be in the Islamic
State capital of Raqqa, Syria.

The revelations about his planned trip to the U.S. came the day after David
Cameron announced police will be given the power to seize the passports of
terror suspects trying to join jihadists fighting in the Middle East.

The Prime Minister also unveiled new powers to force jihadis living in the UK to
relocate and said airlines will be compelled to hand over passenger lists to
increase security.

LOAD-DATE: September 2, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDM


                   Copyright 2014 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              414 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                  mirror.co.uk

                     September 2, 2014 Tuesday 6:12 PM GMT

Islamic State terrorist given 24/7 hospital security in Iraq after killing 4
people in bomb attack;
Terrorist Horr Jaffer, 23, is under constant surveillance after he carried out a
bomb attack on a Kurd checkpoint which killed four people

BYLINE: By Liam Corless

SECTION: NEWS,WORLD NEWS

LENGTH: 301 words


Captured IS Suicide Bomber Reveals Threat

A member of the Islamic State terrorist group (IS) has been given
around-the-clock security at in hospital after carrying out a bomb attack which
killed four people.

Russian-born Horr Jaffer is under constant surveillance following the attack.

The 23-year-old, who is now being treated in an Iraqi hospital, was attempting
to destroy a Kurd checkpoint but was captured by officials as he made his
escape.

Jaffer joined IS after some of his family were killed in Syria.

He told Sky News: "I want to be a martyr. I decided after they killed my family.

"They [Islamic State] didn't tell me anything about what I was doing or where I
was. I just had to press the button."

Jaffer also complained that Syria was becoming weaker with the influx of foreign
soldiers.

He said: "There are nations from all over the world there. There is British
amongst them. They are from Asian countries, Europe and America. From
everywhere."

British-born Bafle Talabani, founder of the Kurds' elite Counter Terrorism
Group, said of the growing threat of terrorism: "It is almost like
super-terrorism and this is the frontline.

"It is more aggressive, more merciless more brutal. This is the front of the war
on terror.

"If we don't stop this here they will come for the West, for England, for Europe
or the United States. They need to be stopped."

Talabani claims that IS has overtaken Al-Qaeda as the single most dangerous
terrorist organisation on the planet and that Kurds must be allowed to buy their
own weapons.

He said: "The special forces have good equipment. The peshmergas' weapons go
back to the Iran-Iraq war.

"They are fighting against good weapons and a well-organised outfit with lots of
money.

Does the British government need to focus more attention on dealing with the
threat of ISIS?

LOAD-DATE: September 9, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDMI


                      Copyright 2014 Trinity Mirror, Plc.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              415 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                          Press Association Mediapoint

                     September 2, 2014 Tuesday 12:51 AM BST

'VAGUE' ANTI-TERROR PLANS ATTACKED

BYLINE: James Tapsfield and Sam Lister, Press Association Political Staff

SECTION: HOME NEWS

LENGTH: 2092 words


Coalition plans to counter the threat from British jihadists have been
criticised as ``vague'' and potentially unenforceable.

David Cameron told MPs police will be given powers to seize passports from UK
nationals suspected of going to fight for Islamic State (IS) in Iraq or Syria.

The Prime Minister said officials were also ``working up'' proposals to bar
British extremists from returning to this country, and signalled he wanted to
beef up terrorism prevention and investigation measures (Tpims).

However, Downing Street later admitted there was as yet no timetable for
introducing legislation, and they were not certain excluding Britons from the
country would be possible.

Meanwhile, the Liberal Democrats insisted they had not ``definitively'' signed
up to bolstering Tpims by allowing suspects to be relocated.

Senior coalition figures have been engaged in detailed negotiations about the
package of measures over the weekend, after the UK's terrorist threat level was
raised from substantial to severe.

Addressing the Commons yesterday, Mr Cameron said thousands of European citizens
had gone to fight for IS and there were growing fears about the potential for
them to return and wreak havoc.

``Adhering to British values is not an option or a choice,'' he said.

``Passports are not an automatic right. The Home Secretary already has the
discretion to issue, revoke and refuse passports under the royal prerogative if
there is reason to believe people are planning to take part in terrorist-related
activity.

``But when police suspect a traveller at the border, they are not currently able
to apply for the royal prerogative and so only have limited stop-and-search
powers.

``We will introduce specific and targeted legislation to fill this gap by
providing the police with a temporary power to seize a passport at the border,
during which time they will be able to investigate the individual concerned.

``This power will include appropriate safeguards and oversight arrangements.''

The premier said it was ``abhorrent'' that British citizens who pledged
allegiance elsewhere were able to return to the UK and pose a threat to national
security.

``We are clear in principle that what we need is a targeted discretionary power
to allow us to exclude British nationals from the UK and we'll work proposals on
this basis with our agencies in line with our international obligations and
discuss the details on a cross-party basis,'' he added.

``We will introduce new powers to add to our existing terrorism prevention and
investigation measures including stronger locational constraints on suspects
under Tpims either through enhanced use of exclusions zones or through
relocation powers.''

Airlines will also be hit by tougher rules, including providing information on
passenger lists, or their flights will be blocked from landing in the UK.

But Mr Cameron dismissed London mayor Boris Johnson's call for a presumption
that travel to certain countries was for criminal purposes, describing the idea
as ``wrong''.

Labour branded the suggestion of barring suspected jihadists from coming back to
this country ``vague'' and ``unclear''.

Former attorney general Dominic Grieve warned it was ``probably impossible'' to
enforce.

``Whilst the person who goes abroad fighting in Syria may technically commit
treason, and indeed should be put on trial perhaps for treason when they come
back, nevertheless they are British nationals and excluding them unconvicted
from coming to this country I think raises some very severe difficulties,'' the
Tory MP told BBC Radio 4's PM programme.

Ed Miliband pointed out that relocation powers were a central part of the
control order system previously scrapped by the coalition in favour of Tpims.

``With regards to the most serious high risk cases where convictions in the
courts cannot be achieved I welcome your recognition that the Independent
Reviewer on terrorism had made clear the inadequacies of Tpims,'' he said.

``In particular the inability to relocate suspects away from their communities.

``Relocation was indeed a central part of control orders and it was a mistake to
get rid of them in the first place.''

Mr Miliband also urged the Government to introduce a ``mandatory and
comprehensive'' programme to deradicalise both terror suspects and those who
have been ``on the fringes'' of extremism in Iraq and Syria.

He criticised ministers for making the Prevent counter-terrorism strategy
``overly focused'' on the police response to terrorism, rather than parents and
communities.

Deputy Prime Minister Nick Clegg insisted discussions on the measures had not
``divided the coalition''.

``This was not an argument that divided the coalition. Both the PM and myself
want to get the right balance between plugging the gaps where they need to be
plugged to make sure that we keep people in this country safe, but doing so in a
way that is in keeping with our finest traditions of due process and upholding
the rule of law,'' he said.

But a senior Lib Dem source made clear the extension of Tpims was not a done
deal.

``We have not definitively signed up to introducing relocation powers. We have
agreed to look in detail at the options available to us,'' the source said.

Downing Street said the plans for seizing passports, excluding British nationals
and toughening TPIMS would all require legislation.

The PM's spokesman said the changes would be brought forward ``as swiftly as
possible'' although he declined to speculate on whether it would be this year.

He also rejected the idea that the Government was U-turning by re-introducing
locational restriction, arguing that there were still significant differences
between Tpims and the old control order regime.

Mr Cameron was repeatedly pressed by MPs over whether Britain would be willing
to join a ``coalition of the willing'' to take military action against IS.

The premier refused completely to rule out taking part in air strikes, saying:
``We should use all those things that we have at our disposal but recognise
there isn't some unique military solution that can be put in place.''

The plans to extend anti-terrorism powers come after a weekend of Coalition
negotiations following an increase in the terrorist threat to the UK from
substantial to severe.

Mr Cameron said: ``We will introduce new powers to add to our existing terrorism
prevention and investigation measures including stronger locational constraints
on suspects under Tpims either through enhanced use of exclusions zones or
through relocation powers.''

The Prime Minister dismissed suggestions by London mayor Boris Johnson that
travel to certain countries should be criminalised as ``wrong'' but said
measures were needed to stop some Britons returning.

Mr Cameron added: ``We are clear in principle that what we need is a targeted
discretionary power to allow us to exclude British nationals from the UK and
we'll work proposals on this basis with our agencies in line with our
international obligations and discuss the details on a cross-party basis.''

Airlines will also be hit by tougher rules, including providing information on
passenger lists, or their flights will be blocked from landing in the UK.

Labour leader Ed Miliband said relocation powers were a central part of the
control order system that the coalition scrapped and replaced with Tpims.

``With regards to the most serious high risk cases where convictions in the
courts cannot be achieved I welcome your recognition that the Independent
Reviewer on terrorism had made clear the inadequacies of Tpims,'' he said.

``In particular the inability to relocate suspects away from their communities.

``Relocation was indeed a central part of control orders and it was a mistake to
get rid of them in the first place.''

Mr Miliband also said Mr Cameron's proposals to exclude British nationals
involved in terrorism abroad from entering the country were ``unclear''.

Mr Cameron and and Deputy Prime Minister Nick Clegg were in ``constant
communication'' over the last few days to find a compromise over the
Government's response to dealing with the threat posed by Islamic State (IS)
extremists.

Liberal Democrats were fiercely opposed to the control orders and while
negotiations continued former leader Lord Ashdown warned that politicians should
not act as ``cheerleaders'' for the demands of the intelligence and security
services.

Liberty director Shami Chakrabarti said today's announcement meant Tpims are now
identical to control orders.

She said: ``Sabre-rattling and thinly-veiled threats to the courts, but little
detail from the Prime Minister.

``Why demand that the police seize passports on a discriminatory, dangerous
basis rather than arrest those intent on committing murder and terror overseas?

``Control orders and Tpims become identical via internal exile at home, while
the threat of external exile remains with the dangerous and innocent alike
dumped like toxic waste on the international community.''

Former Attorney General Dominic Grieve said it would be ``probably impossible''
for the Government to prevent Britons suspected of fighting for IS returning to
the UK.

The Conservative MP told BBC Radio 4's PM programme: ``Whilst the person who
goes abroad fighting in Syria may technically commit treason, and indeed should
be put on trial perhaps for treason when they come back, nevertheless they are
British nationals and excluding them unconvicted from coming to this country I
think raises some very severe difficulties.

``At the moment excluding them is not possible but I think we are likely to find
that excluding them would be very difficult indeed.''

Deputy Prime Minister Nick Clegg insisted discussions on the measures had not
``divided the coalition''.

``What we've done is targeted, proportionate and effective. We have continued to
discuss and examined the way in which you can stop travelling from that crucible
of violence in that region to come back here and do us harm,'' he said.

``We will take people's passport away for a temporary period of time if they try
and leave the UK and it is clear they want to go elsewhere to do us harm.

``We will draft legislation in order to ensure that we retain existing powers to
confiscate people's passports where we think that is necessary.

``We are looking at the recommendation of the independent reviewer of
anti-terrorism measures to ensure the protections we have in place for people
who cannot be prosecuted but nonetheless pose a threat, that those powers are
effectively applied.

``And crucially... we are going to work with the aviation industry, the
airlines, to make sure that we introduce American style powers so they have to
give us information on passengers so we can stop them boarding planes in the
first place to come back here.

He said other proposals were still being considered amid ``all sorts of
procedural, legislative, legal complexities''.

The Lib Dem leader added: ``This was not an argument that divided the coalition.
Both the PM and myself want to get the right balance between plugging the gaps
wehere they need to be plugged to make sure that we keep people in this country
safe, but doing so in a way that is in keeping with our finest traditions of due
process and upholding the rule of law.''

Downing Street said the plans for seizing passports, excluding British nationals
and toughening Tpims would all require legislation.

The PM's spokesman said the changes would be brought forward ``as swiftly as
possible'' although he declined to speculate on whether it would be after the
conference season.

The spokesman said work would be done to check the practicality of excluding
Britons from the country - denying that a coalition split was to blame for
failure to bring forward a solid proposal.

He also rejected the idea that the government was U-turning by re-introducing
locational restriction to Tpims. There are still significant differences from
the old control order regime, which he argued had ``crumbled'' under legal
challenges.

A senior Liberal Democrat source said: ``We have not definitively signed up to
introducing relocation powers. We have agreed to look in detail at the options
available to us.

``The Independent Reviewer of Terrorism Legislation, David Anderson, recently
recommended that the Government look at locational constraints that can be put
on Tpims suspects to make it easier to disrupt their networks and to reduce the
risk of absconding.

``As a result, the Liberal Democrats are willing to look in more detail at
options, including at whether the use of exclusion zones could be expanded to
meet the concerns that Anderson raises.''

LOAD-DATE: September 2, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newswire


                  Copyright 2014 The Press Association Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              416 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                thejournal.co.uk

                     September 2, 2014 Tuesday 9:35 AM GMT

Morning news headlines: Release Ashya parents, anti-terror plans attacked, photo
hack probed;
The latest news from around the globe

BYLINE: By Neil Macdonald

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 947 words


The parents of five-year-old brain cancer patient Ashya King have spent another
night away from their son as relatives and supporters continued to demand their
release from detention.

A judge in Spain ruled that Brett and Naghmeh King must be held for up to 72
hours while the court considers whether to grant a British extradition request.

The couple, who were arrested in Spain after Ashya was taken from a UK hospital
without doctors' consent, told the judge in Madrid they do not want to return to
the UK.            'Vague' anti-terror plans attacked

Coalition plans to counter the threat from British jihadists have been
criticised as "vague" and potentially unenforceable.

David Cameron told MPs police will be given powers to seize passports from UK
nationals suspected of going to fight for Islamic State (IS) in Iraq or Syria.

The Prime Minister said officials were also "working up" proposals to bar
British extremists from returning to this country, and signalled he wanted to
beef up terrorism prevention and investigation measures (Tpims).
Launch for free school meals scheme

Almost two million infants will receive a free lunch from today under a new £1
billion scheme, amid ongoing concerns about its cost.

The major new initiative, first announced by Deputy Prime Minister and Lib Dem
leader Nick Clegg last year, will see every five to seven-year-old at England's
16,500 primary schools eligible for free dinners.

Ministers have insisted that the move will save families up to £400 per year as
well having health and education benefits for youngsters.            Steep rise
in skin cancer figures

The number of people admitted to hospital for skin cancer has increased by 41%
in just five years, new figures show.

There has been a "significant" rise in admissions for skin cancers, which are
largely preventable, the British Association of Dermatologists said.

The data, which will be presented at the World Congress On Cancers Of The Skin
in Edinburgh later this week, show that admissions to English hospitals for both
non melanoma skin cancer and malignant melanoma rose from 87,685 in 2007 to
123,808 in 2011.            FBI and Apple probe photos hack

Apple and the FBI are investigating an online hack that led to the posting of
hundreds of explicit photos of some of Hollywood's most famous female stars.

The leak saw British names including model Cara Delevigne and former Downton
Abbey actress Jessica Brown Findlay linked to the list of around 100 famous
people whose intimate pictures had reportedly been posted online.

Initial reports concluded that Apple's iCloud service had been compromised to
access the images.            BBC and police face Cliff grilling

The Director-General of the BBC and Chief Constable of South Yorkshire Police
will be questioned by MPs today over the handling of the search of Sir Cliff
Richard's home.

Force head David Crompton and Lord Tony Hall will face the Home Affairs Select
Committee following a row sparked when the BBC broke news of the search of the
pop star's Berkshire penthouse.

Sir Cliff's apartment was searched by officers from South Yorkshire and Thames
Valley Police last month as part of an investigation into an alleged sexual
assault on a young boy at a religious event in 1985. A BBC crew reportedly
arrived on the scene before the police.            Johnson angry over 'Boris
Island'

London Mayor Boris Johnson has accused the Airports Commission of setting the
debate on aviation expansion back by half a century, ahead of an announcement
this morning that his plan for a new airport in east London has been rejected.

The thumbs-down for the plan, which could have seen a four-runway brand new
airport dubbed Boris Island Thames Estuary built to the east of London, is due
to come from the Whitehall-appointed Airports Commission.

Mr Johnson told of his disappointment ahead of the news being made official, but
said he will press ahead with his plans and added that he remains confident his
scheme will eventually come to fruition.            Payday loan debt problems
soar

The number of people struggling to cope with payday loan debts has risen by more
than 13,000 in the past year, figures show.

Debt charity StepChange said it dealt with 43,716 people in the first six months
of this year, compared with 30,762 for the same period last year.

The figures, showing that the charity has handled more than £72 million in debts
in the first half of 2014, highlight the need for further action to ensure
better protection for vulnerable people who might consider taking a loan, it
said.            Bake Off Berry fears being a burden

Great British Bake Off star Mary Berry has said she does not want to live beyond
90 and that she would like her children to be able to "give me a pill" if her
health deteriorated and she became a "burden".

The 79-year-old cookery writer turned TV star, who is exploring her family roots
in BBC1 genealogy show Who Do You Think You Are?, has seen her career blossom
late in life.

But she said she did not want to follow in the footsteps of her mother, who
lived until she was 105.            British activist faces Thai trial

A British human rights activist who investigated alleged abuses at a Thai fruit
processing factory has gone on trial in the first in a series of criminal
lawsuits filed against him by the company.

Natural Fruit is accusing activist Andy Hall of defamation in the wake of a
report he helped write last year for the Finland-based watchdog group Finnwatch
which detailed poor labour conditions in seafood and pineapple export companies
in Thailand.

The report investigated a factory owned by Natural Fruit that employs hundreds
of migrants from neighbouring Burma.

LOAD-DATE: September 9, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBTJN


                      Copyright 2014 Trinity Mirror, Plc.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              417 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                               walesonline.co.uk

                     September 2, 2014 Tuesday 9:35 AM GMT

Morning news headlines: Release Ashya parents, anti-terror plans attacked, photo
hack probed;
The latest news from around the globe

BYLINE: By Neil Macdonald

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 947 words


The parents of five-year-old brain cancer patient Ashya King have spent another
night away from their son as relatives and supporters continued to demand their
release from detention.

A judge in Spain ruled that Brett and Naghmeh King must be held for up to 72
hours while the court considers whether to grant a British extradition request.

The couple, who were arrested in Spain after Ashya was taken from a UK hospital
without doctors' consent, told the judge in Madrid they do not want to return to
the UK.            'Vague' anti-terror plans attacked

Coalition plans to counter the threat from British jihadists have been
criticised as "vague" and potentially unenforceable.

David Cameron told MPs police will be given powers to seize passports from UK
nationals suspected of going to fight for Islamic State (IS) in Iraq or Syria.

The Prime Minister said officials were also "working up" proposals to bar
British extremists from returning to this country, and signalled he wanted to
beef up terrorism prevention and investigation measures (Tpims).
Launch for free school meals scheme

Almost two million infants will receive a free lunch from today under a new £1
billion scheme, amid ongoing concerns about its cost.

The major new initiative, first announced by Deputy Prime Minister and Lib Dem
leader Nick Clegg last year, will see every five to seven-year-old at England's
16,500 primary schools eligible for free dinners.

Ministers have insisted that the move will save families up to £400 per year as
well having health and education benefits for youngsters.            Steep rise
in skin cancer figures

The number of people admitted to hospital for skin cancer has increased by 41%
in just five years, new figures show.

There has been a "significant" rise in admissions for skin cancers, which are
largely preventable, the British Association of Dermatologists said.

The data, which will be presented at the World Congress On Cancers Of The Skin
in Edinburgh later this week, show that admissions to English hospitals for both
non melanoma skin cancer and malignant melanoma rose from 87,685 in 2007 to
123,808 in 2011.            FBI and Apple probe photos hack

Apple and the FBI are investigating an online hack that led to the posting of
hundreds of explicit photos of some of Hollywood's most famous female stars.

The leak saw British names including model Cara Delevigne and former Downton
Abbey actress Jessica Brown Findlay linked to the list of around 100 famous
people whose intimate pictures had reportedly been posted online.

Initial reports concluded that Apple's iCloud service had been compromised to
access the images.            BBC and police face Cliff grilling

The Director-General of the BBC and Chief Constable of South Yorkshire Police
will be questioned by MPs today over the handling of the search of Sir Cliff
Richard's home.

Force head David Crompton and Lord Tony Hall will face the Home Affairs Select
Committee following a row sparked when the BBC broke news of the search of the
pop star's Berkshire penthouse.

Sir Cliff's apartment was searched by officers from South Yorkshire and Thames
Valley Police last month as part of an investigation into an alleged sexual
assault on a young boy at a religious event in 1985. A BBC crew reportedly
arrived on the scene before the police.            Johnson angry over 'Boris
Island'

London Mayor Boris Johnson has accused the Airports Commission of setting the
debate on aviation expansion back by half a century, ahead of an announcement
this morning that his plan for a new airport in east London has been rejected.

The thumbs-down for the plan, which could have seen a four-runway brand new
airport dubbed Boris Island Thames Estuary built to the east of London, is due
to come from the Whitehall-appointed Airports Commission.

Mr Johnson told of his disappointment ahead of the news being made official, but
said he will press ahead with his plans and added that he remains confident his
scheme will eventually come to fruition.            Payday loan debt problems
soar

The number of people struggling to cope with payday loan debts has risen by more
than 13,000 in the past year, figures show.

Debt charity StepChange said it dealt with 43,716 people in the first six months
of this year, compared with 30,762 for the same period last year.

The figures, showing that the charity has handled more than £72 million in debts
in the first half of 2014, highlight the need for further action to ensure
better protection for vulnerable people who might consider taking a loan, it
said.            Bake Off Berry fears being a burden

Great British Bake Off star Mary Berry has said she does not want to live beyond
90 and that she would like her children to be able to "give me a pill" if her
health deteriorated and she became a "burden".

The 79-year-old cookery writer turned TV star, who is exploring her family roots
in BBC1 genealogy show Who Do You Think You Are?, has seen her career blossom
late in life.

But she said she did not want to follow in the footsteps of her mother, who
lived until she was 105.            British activist faces Thai trial

A British human rights activist who investigated alleged abuses at a Thai fruit
processing factory has gone on trial in the first in a series of criminal
lawsuits filed against him by the company.

Natural Fruit is accusing activist Andy Hall of defamation in the wake of a
report he helped write last year for the Finland-based watchdog group Finnwatch
which detailed poor labour conditions in seafood and pineapple export companies
in Thailand.

The report investigated a factory owned by Natural Fruit that employs hundreds
of migrants from neighbouring Burma.

LOAD-DATE: October 10, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBWM


                         Copyright 2014 Trinity Mirror
                              All Rights Reserved

                              418 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring South Asia - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                          September 3, 2014 Wednesday

Pakistan private school comes under terrorist attack

LENGTH: 325 words


Text of report by Pakistan daily The Express Tribune website on 3 September

Armed men torched a private school in the Dasht area of Turbat, a western
district of Balochistan, late Monday night. The men also set an estimated 150
textbooks on fire before escaping. This is the first-ever attack on a private
school in Turbat. Earlier, schools had been targeted in Panjgur.

A group calling itself 'Al Jihad' claimed responsibility for the attack. The
group distributed pamphlets with warnings that private schools should "stop
imparting Western education, particularly in English" to children in the school
after the attack. The group claimed the attack was part of a 'holy war' against
Western-style education.

"The armed men barged into Gurbam private school after 10pm on Monday. They set
fire to the principal's office and burnt textbooks, five computers, three chairs
and school records," a senior official at Turbat Levies station said. Gurbam is
a co-educational school and offers classes taught in English during the evening
to more than 400 students.

"There should only be religious education in this school and no one should dare
to impart education in English," the pamphlet states.

Turbat Levies said a case has not been registered yet but Levies personnel are
investigating the incident. "There have been no such attacks in hundreds of
years here," said a Levies official.

Many students have migrated from Panjgur and Turbat to Quetta or Karachi after
an increasing number of attacks on schools and colleges here. Many suspect the
attacks are carried out by groups from outside the area. Schools in Panjgur
opened last month after remaining closed for three months due to attacks.

According to local residents, religious wall chalking in Turbat had increased
over the past few weeks and the armed group was specifically targeting private
schools and English language centres in the area.

Source: Express Tribune website, Karachi, in English 03 Sep 14

LOAD-DATE: September 3, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2014 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              419 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                    BBC Monitoring Asia Pacific - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                          September 3, 2014 Wednesday

Philippines Army dismisses "destabilization angle" in foiled terror attack

LENGTH: 296 words


Text of report by Philippines newspaper Inquirer website on 3 September

Manila, Philippines: There is no destabilization plot despite the reported plan
by a group of military reservists to bomb specific targets in Metro Manila,
including the Ninoy Aquino International Airport (NAIA), the Armed Forces of the
Philippines [AFP] said on Wednesday [3 September].

"There's no destabilization angle on that report kasi imagine ano lang "yun,
labintador tapos nilagayan ng gasoline" (It's just a firecracker and gasoline).
Anybody can do that so I think that's really something that (we should really
not be bothered about)," General Gregorio Pio Catapang Jr., AFP Chief of Staff,
told reporters after attending his confirmation hearing at the Senate.

Catapang was referring to Monday's [1 September] foiled plot to bomb the NAIA
allegedly by a group protesting China's occupation of disputed isles in the
South China Sea.

He also dismissed as mere "allegation" reports that the same group was planning
to bomb SM Mall of Asia, in Pasay and the Chinese Embassy and the headquarters
of property developer D.M. Consunji Inc. in Makati City, all Chinese-operated
establishments.

"Well that's the allegation but we looked around, sabi may mga threat din sa
kampo namin pero negative naman so we didn't want to put more, bigyan sila ng
importansya," said the military chief.

(Well that's the allegation but we looked around and found out that there were
threats in our camp. But we discovered they were "negative" and we just do not
want to give them more importance.)

Catapang said they would just leave it up to the National Bureau of
Investigation to file the appropriate charges against those behind the foiled
NAIA terror plot.

Source: Philippine Daily Inquirer website in English 03 Sep 14

LOAD-DATE: September 3, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2014 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              420 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring Middle East - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                          September 3, 2014 Wednesday

Five civilians killed in terror attack on bus in southern Syria - website

LENGTH: 159 words


Text of report in English by state-run Syrian news agency SANA website

Sweida [Suwayda], SANA -Five civilians were killed and nine others were injured
earlier on Wednesday morning [3 September] in a terrorist attack on a bus on
Dama-Ereiqa road between the southern provinces of Dar'a and Sweida.

A source at Sweida Police Command told SANA that two roadside bombs earlier
planted by terrorists went off as a passenger bus reached a point on Dama-Ereiqa
road heading from Harran village in the western countryside of Sweida towards
Damascus. One of the bombs weighed 10 kg, while the other weighed 20 kg.

The source said t the attack claimed the lives of five citizens and injured nine
others, who were taken to Sweida National Hospital to receive treatment.

On August 14th, five citizens were injured in a terrorist attack which targeted
a bus in Dama village.

Ruaa al-Jazaeri / Haifa Said

Source: SANA news agency website, Damascus, in English 0805 gmt 3 Sep 14

LOAD-DATE: September 3, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2014 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              421 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                              DAILY MAIL (London)

                          September 3, 2014 Wednesday

PM'S ANTI-TERROR PLAN UNDER ATTACK

BYLINE: BY IAN DRURY HOME AFFAIRS CORRESPONDENT

LENGTH: 508 words


DAVID Cameron's anti-terror plans came under fresh attack yesterday amid claims
he proposed the crackdown to shift attention from the embarrassment of a Tory MP
defecting to Ukip.

In a major Commons statement on Monday, he vowed to introduce measures to bar
British fanatics fighting in Iraq and Syria from re-entering the UK, either by
stripping them of their passports or stopping them boarding flights back home.

But critics suggested Mr Cameron had ratcheted up the rhetoric to try to bury
bad news' after Tory backbencher Douglas Carswell stunned Westminster by
defecting to Ukip last week.

Labour MP Ian Austin, a member of the Home Affairs Select Committee, said: David
Cameron used the most apocalyptic language to tell us that we faced a
generational struggle against the threat of jihadists to Britain.

I agree with him. Tackling extremists and extremism to prevent British people
becoming terrorists at home and abroad is a huge priority.

But the measures he announced were a damp squib. They did not amount to much
more than tough talking. It looks very much like he was playing politics with
security to deflect attention from the problems he is having within his own
party.'

In a further blow to Downing Street, the independent reviewer of terror laws
warned there would be significant difficulties' in stopping British-born
suspects re-entering the country.

It also emerged another proposal, to force terror suspects living in the UK to
be relocated away from other militants, might be blocked by Deputy Prime
Minister Nick Clegg, the Liberal Democrat leader.

The criticism increased the sense of disarray surrounding the targeted' package
of proposals unveiled by Mr Cameron.

A senior Tory criticised Downing Street for briefing ill-thought out terror
policies.

He said: They don't think, "Let's get a serious set of policies that may solve
the problem." They think, "Let's brief something that will get rid of this
problem for the next 72 hours." It is tactical media management, nothing else.'

David Anderson QC, the counter-terrorism watchdog, said there were legal
difficulties' with stopping British-born citizens who had been fighting abroad
from returning to the UK, as rendering them stateless would breach international
law.

The Prime Minister also wants to force airlines to hand over advanced passenger
information to the security services or be banned from landing planes in the UK.

Mr Anderson said: The whole concept of citizenship is about the right of
abode?...?if you're going to suspend that, even on a temporary basis, I think
you run into some legal difficulties.

Where does the person go? Do they go back to Syria for a bit more jihad? Do they
go and find a beach somewhere in Turkey?

The trouble with this game of pass the parcel, whether it comes to terrorists or
other criminals, is that if other people's terrorists or criminals find their
way to Great Britain, they too could say, "Well we wash our hands of these
people, we're not going to let them back, they're your problem".'

Horror in the desert - Pages 4-5

© Daily Mail

LOAD-DATE: September 2, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Papers


                   Copyright 2014 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              422 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                   MailOnline

                    September 3, 2014 Wednesday 3:48 PM GMT

Pictured: Libyan Islamist rebels pose with planes seized from Tripoli airport as
U.S. officials warn they could be used to carry out terrorist attack on 9/11
anniversary

BYLINE: CHRIS PLEASANCE FOR MAILONLINE and ASHLEY COLLMAN FOR MAILONLINE

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 767 words



     ·    Eleven planes missing from Tripoli Airport after it was taken by
          Islamic rebels
     ·    Fighters from group Libyan Dawn have posed for pictures with aircraft
     ·    U.S. officials warn planes could be used to carry out terror attacks
          on 9/11
     ·    September 11 also marks anniversary of attack on US embassy in Libya


Libyan terrorists have posted pictures of themselves online posing with some of
the aeroplanes taken from Tripoli airport after fighters seized it last month.

Soldiers from the group Libyan Dawn can be seen climbing on to the wings of
commercial jets while smiling and waving for the camera.

U.S. officials fear that these aeroplanes could now be used to carry out
9/11-style attacks in the region on the anniversary of the tragedy this month.

A total of 11 commercial jets from state-owned carriers Libyan Airlines and
Afriqiyah Airways went missing in August after militants from the so-called
'masked men brigade' overran the airport.

Scroll down for video

Officials have been warning for some time about the deteriorating situation in
Libya, which was controlled by dictator Muammar Gaddaffi until he was killed in
October 2011.

'There are a number of commercial airliners in Libya that are missing,' one
official told the Washington Free-Beacon. 'We found out on September 11 what can
happen with hijacked planes.'

September 11 not only marks the anniversary of the attacks on the World Trade
Center but it will also be the second anniversary of the  raid of the U.S.
Ambassador's compound in Benghazi, Libya.

Four Americans were killed in the attack, including U.S. Ambassador Christopher
Stevens.

Ansar al-Shariah, the group Washington holds responsible for the attack, have
also seized parts of the Libyan capital and are known to work with terrorists
from ISIS.

However they are not thought to be working with fighters from Libyan Dawn, as
they are an Al-Qaeda affiliated group.

Tripoli International Airport was being run by two anti-Islamist militias and
had been closed since mid-July when it was taken over at the end of August by
the group Libyan Dawn.

Pictures show the aftermath of the firefight, with planes completely or
partially blasted and several littered with bullet holes.

Tripoli is witnessing one of its worst spasms of violence since Gaddaffi left
power. The militias, many of which originate from rebel forces that fought
Gaddaffi, became powerful players in post-war Libya, filling a void left by weak
police and a shattered army.

Successive governments have put militias on their payroll in return for
maintaining order, but rivalries over control and resources have led to fierce
fighting among them and posed a constant challenge to the central government and
a hoped-for transition to democracy.

On Sunday,  the Libyan government announced that they had lost control of the
capital.

Ansar al-Sharia has ties to the Islamic State (also known as ISIS), the Syrian
group which today released the filmed beheading of American journalist Steven
Sotloff - the second recorded execution of a U.S. hostage by the group.

Moroccan military expert Abderrahmane Mekkaoui told Al Jazeera television after
the airport attack that the planes had been taken by another Islamic group, the
Masked Men Brigade.

Mekkaoui said there is 'credible intelligence' that the Masked Men Brigade 'is
plotting to use the planes in attacks on the Maghreb state' on the 9/11
anniversary.

Sebastian Gorka, a counterterrorism expert, told the Free-Beacon that the planes
could be used in two ways to strike North Africa or even as far as the oil
fields of Saudi Arabia.

'The first would be how commercial airliners were used on Sept 11, 2001,
literally turning an innocent mode of mass transit into a super-high precision
guided missile of immense potency,' Gorka, the Maj Gen Charles Horner chair at
the Marine Corps University, said.

'The second tactic could be to use the airframe with its civilian markings as a
tool of deception to insert a full payload of armed terrorists into a locale
that otherwise is always open to commercial carriers,' he added.

U.S. officials have not publicly confirmed the eleven planes' disappearance, but
are reportedly working to track them down.

Since the overthrow of previous dictator Muammar Gaddafi, Libya has descended
into turmoil and officials fear it may become another safe haven for terrorists,
like Syria.

Egypt's military government is currently looking into intervening in the country
to restore order.

The U.S. is taking a more conservative role in the country, but Secretary of
State John Kerry said last week that he would be delivering Apache attack
helicopters to Egypt.

LOAD-DATE: September 3, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDM


                   Copyright 2014 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              423 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                   MailOnline

                    September 3, 2014 Wednesday 3:26 PM GMT

Pictured: Libyan Islamist rebels pose with planes seized from Tripoli airport as
U.S. officials warn they could be used to carry out terrorist attack on 9/11
anniversary

BYLINE: ASHLEY COLLMAN FOR MAILONLINE

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 759 words



     ·    Eleven planes went missing from Tripoli International Airport, after
          it was overtaken by an Islamic rebel group late last month
     ·    U.S. officials are reportedly warning that the planes could be used to
          carry out terrorist attacks for the anniversary of September 11


Libyan terrorists have posted pictures online of themselves posing with some of
the aeroplanes taken from Tripoli airport after they seized it last month.

Soldiers from the group Libyan Dawn can be seen climbing on to the wings of the
commercial jets while smiling and waving for the camera.

U.S. officials fear that these aeroplanes could now be used to carry out
9/11-style attacks in the region on the anniversary of the tragedy this month.

A total of 11 commercial jets from two state-owned airlines went missing in
August after militants from the so-called 'masked men brigade' overran the
airport in the Libyan capital.

Scroll down for video

'There are a number of commercial airliners in Libya that are missing,' one
official told the Washington Free-Beacon. 'We found out on September 11 what can
happen with hijacked planes.'

Officials have been warning for some time about the deteriorating situation in
Libya, which was controlled by dictator Muammar Gaddaffi until he was killed in
October 2011.

September 11 not only marks the anniversary of the al-Qaeda organized attacks on
the World Trade Center in New York and Pentagon in Washington, DC - but it will
also be the second anniversary of the Islamic militant-led raid of the U.S.
Ambassador's compound in Benghazi, Libya.

Four Americans were killed in the attack, including U.S. Ambassador Christopher
Stevens.

Libyan Dawn are known to have associations with Al-Qaeda, while Ansar
al-Shariah, another group which seized parts of the Libyan capital, are
responsible for the assault on the U.S. Consulate.

Tripoli International Airport was being run by two anti-Islamist militias and
had been closed since mid-July when it was taken over at the end of August by
the group Libyan Dawn.

Pictures show the aftermath of the firefight, with planes completely or
partially blasted and several littered with bullet holes.

Tripoli is witnessing one of its worst spasms of violence since Gaddaffi left
power. The militias, many of which originate from rebel forces that fought
Gaddaffi, became powerful players in post-war Libya, filling a void left by weak
police and a shattered army.

Successive governments have put militias on their payroll in return for
maintaining order, but rivalries over control and resources have led to fierce
fighting among them and posed a constant challenge to the central government and
a hoped-for transition to democracy.

On Sunday,  the Libyan government announced that they had lost control of the
capital.

Ansar al-Sharia has ties to the Islamic State (also known as ISIS), the Syrian
group which today released the filmed beheading of American journalist Steven
Sotloff - the second recorded execution of a U.S. hostage by the group.

Moroccan military expert Abderrahmane Mekkaoui told Al Jazeera television after
the airport attack that the planes had been taken by another Islamic group, the
Masked Men Brigade.

Mekkaoui said there is 'credible intelligence' that the Masked Men Brigade 'is
plotting to use the planes in attacks on the Maghreb state' on the 9/11
anniversary.

Sebastian Gorka, a counterterrorism expert, told the Free-Beacon that the planes
could be used in two ways to strike North Africa or even as far as the oil
fields of Saudi Arabia.

'The first would be how commercial airliners were used on Sept 11, 2001,
literally turning an innocent mode of mass transit into a super-high precision
guided missile of immense potency,' Gorka, the Maj Gen Charles Horner chair at
the Marine Corps University, said.

'The second tactic could be to use the airframe with its civilian markings as a
tool of deception to insert a full payload of armed terrorists into a locale
that otherwise is always open to commercial carriers,' he added.

U.S. officials have not publicly confirmed the eleven planes' disappearance, but
are reportedly working to track them down.

Since the overthrow of previous dictator Muammar Gaddafi, Libya has descended
into turmoil and officials fear it may become another safe haven for terrorists,
like Syria.

Egypt's military government is currently looking into intervening in the country
to restore order.

The U.S. is taking a more conservative role in the country, but Secretary of
State John Kerry said last week that he would be delivering Apache attack
helicopters to Egypt.

LOAD-DATE: September 3, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDM


                   Copyright 2014 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              424 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                   MailOnline

                    September 3, 2014 Wednesday 12:53 PM GMT

Officials warn that ELEVEN missing planes seized by Islamist rebels in Libya
could be used to carry out terrorist attack on 9/11 anniversary

BYLINE: ASHLEY COLLMAN FOR MAILONLINE

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 627 words



     ·    Eleven planes went missing from Tripoli International Airport, after
          it was overtaken by an Islamic rebel group late last month
     ·    U.S. officials are reportedly warning that the planes could be used to
          carry out terrorist attacks for the anniversary of September 11


U.S. officials fear Islamic militants have stolen nearly a dozen commercial
planes in Libya which could be used to carry out 9/11-style terrorist attacks in
the region.

Eleven commercial jets operated by two state-owned airlines went missing last
month, after militant group Libyan Dawn overtook the international airport in
the capital city of Tripoli.

In the past two weeks, the U.S. government has been issuing warnings about the
deteriorating state in Libya, drawing attention to the fact that the planes
could be used in attacks to mark the anniversary of 9/11 later this month,
sources who read the briefs told the Washington Free-Beacon.

'There are a number of commercial airliners in Libya that are missing,' one
official told the Free-Beacon. 'We found out on September 11 what can happen
with hijacked planes.'

Scroll down for video

September 11 not only marks the anniversary of the al-Qaeda organized attacks on
the World Trade Center in New York and Pentagon in Washington, DC - but it will
also be the second anniversary of the Islamic militant-led raid of the U.S.
Ambassador's compound in Benghazi, Libya.

Four Americans were killed in the attack, including U.S. Ambassador Christopher
Stevens.

Tripoli International Airport was being run by two anti-Islamist militias and
had been closed since mid-July when it was taken over at the end of August by
the group Libyan Dawn. Pictures show the aftermath of the firefight, with planes
completely or partially blasted and several littered with bullet holes.

On Sunday,  the Libyan government announced that they had lost control of the
capital to competing militias including the radical Islamic groups Ansar al
Sharia and Libyan Dawn. Ansar al Sharia has ties to the Islamic State (also
known as ISIS), the Syrian group which today released the filmed beheading of
American journalist Steven Sotloff - the second recorded execution of a U.S.
hostage by the group.

Moroccan military expert Abderrahmane Mekkaoui told Al Jazeera television after
the airport attack that the planes had been taken by another Islamic group, the
Masked Men Brigade.

Mekkaoui said there is 'credible intelligence' that the Masked Men Brigade 'is
plotting to use the planes in attacks on the Maghreb state' on the 9/11
anniversary.

Sebastian Gorka, a counterterrorism expert, told the Free-Beacon that the planes
could be used in two ways to strike North Africa or even as far as the oil
fields of Saudi Arabia.

'The first would be how commercial airliners were used on Sept 11, 2001,
literally turning an innocent mode of mass transit into a super-high precision
guided missile of immense potency,' Gorka, the Maj Gen Charles Horner chair at
the Marine Corps University, said.

'The second tactic could be to use the airframe with its civilian markings as a
tool of deception to insert a full payload of armed terrorists into a locale
that otherwise is always open to commercial carriers,' he added.

U.S. officials have not publicly confirmed the eleven planes' disappearance, but
are reportedly working to track them down.

Since the overthrow of previous dictator Muammar Gaddafi, Libya has descended
into turmoil and officials fear it may become another safe haven for terrorists,
like Syria.

Egypt's military government is currently looking into intervening in the country
to restore order.

The U.S. is taking a more conservative role in the country, but Secretary of
State John Kerry said last week that he would be delivering Apache attack
helicopters to Egypt.

LOAD-DATE: September 3, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDM


                   Copyright 2014 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              425 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                   MailOnline

                    September 3, 2014 Wednesday 5:02 AM GMT

Officials warn ELEVEN missing airplanes in Libya could be used to carry out
terrorist attack on 9/11 anniversary

BYLINE: ASHLEY COLLMAN FOR MAILONLINE

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 632 words



     ·    Eleven planes went missing from Tripoli International Airport, after
          it was overtaken by an Islamic rebel group late last month
     ·    U.S. officials are reportedly warning that the planes could be used to
          carry out terrorist attacks for the anniversary of September 11


U.S. officials fear Islamic militants have stolen nearly a dozen commercial
planes in Libya which could be used to carry out 9/11-style terrorist attacks in
the region.

Eleven commercial jets operated by two state-owned airlines went missing last
month, after militant group Libyan Dawn overtook the international airport in
the capital city of Tripoli.

In the past two weeks, the U.S. government has been issuing warnings about the
deteriorating state in Libya, drawing attention to the fact that the planes
could be used in attacks to mark the anniversary of 9/11 later this month,
sources who read the briefs told the Washington Free-Beacon.

'There are a number of commercial airliners in Libya that are missing,' one
official told the Free-beacon. 'We found out on September 11 what can happen
with hijacked planes.'

September 11 not only marks the anniversary of the al-Qaeda organized attacks on
the World Trade Center in New York and Pentagon in Washington, DC - but it will
also be the second anniversary of the Islamic militant-led raid of the U.S.
Ambassador's compound in Benghazi, Libya.

Four Americans were killed in the attack, including U.S. Ambassador Christopher
Stevens.

Tripoli International Airport was being run by two anti-Islamist militias and
had been closed since mid-July when it was taken over at the end of August by
the group Libyan Dawn. Pictures show the aftermath of the firefight, with planes
completely or partially blasted and several littered with bullet holes.

On Sunday,  the Libyan government announced that they had lost control of the
capital to competing militias including the radical Islamic groups Ansar al
Sharia and Libyan Dawn. Ansar al Sharia has ties to the Islamic State (also
known as ISIS), the Syrian group which today released the filmed beheaded
American journalist Steven Sotloff in the second recorded execution of a U.S.
hostage.

Moroccan military expert Abderrahmane Mekkaui told Al Jazeera after the airport
attack that the planes had been taken by another Islamic group, the Masked Men
Brigade - who were behind the attack on the U.S. compound in Benghazi two years
ago.

Mekkaeoui said there is 'credible intelligence' that the Masked Men Brigade 'is
plotting to use the planes in attacks on the Maghreb state' on the 9/11
anniversary.

Sebastian Gorka, a counterterrorism expert, told the Free-Beacon that the planes
could be used in two ways to strike North Africa or even as far as the oil
fields of Saudi Arabia.

'The first would be how commercial airliners were used on Sept 11, 2001,
literally turning an innocent mode of mass transit into a super-high precision
guided missile of immense potency,' Gorka, the Maj Gen Charles Horner chair at
the Marine Corps University, said.

'The second tactic could be to use the airframe with its civilian markings as a
tool of deception to insert a full payload of armed terrorists into a locale
that otherwise is always open to commercial carriers,' he added.

U.S. officials have not publicly confirmed the eleven planes' disappearance, but
are reportedly working to track them down.

Since the overthrow of previous dictator Muammar Gaddafi, Libya has descended
into turmoil and officials fear it may become another safe haven for terrorist,
like Syria.

Egypt's military government is currently looking into intervening in the country
to restore order.

The U.S. is taking a more conservative role in the country, but is Secretary of
State John Kerry said last week that he would be delivering Apache attack
helicopters to Egypt.

LOAD-DATE: September 3, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDM


                   Copyright 2014 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              426 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                   MailOnline

                    September 3, 2014 Wednesday 1:37 AM GMT

Prime Minister's anti-terror plan under attack: It's a ploy to distract from
Ukip, say Labour

BYLINE: IAN DRURY FOR THE DAILY MAIL

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 536 words



     ·    David Cameron made major statement to the Commons on fighting terror
     ·    But he was accused of attempting to 'bury bad news' of Tory defection
     ·    Douglas Carswell switched to Ukip last week, triggering by-election


David Cameron's anti-terror plans came under fresh attack yesterday amid claims
he proposed the crackdown to shift attention from the embarrassment of a Tory MP
defecting to Ukip.

In a major Commons statement on Monday, he vowed to introduce measures to bar
British fanatics fighting in Iraq and Syria from re-entering the UK, either by
stripping them of their passports or stopping them boarding flights back home.

But critics suggested Mr Cameron had ratcheted up the rhetoric to try to 'bury
bad news' after Tory backbencher Douglas Carswell stunned Westminster by
defecting to Ukip last week.

Labour MP Ian Austin, a member of the Home Affairs Select Committee, said:
'David Cameron used the most apocalyptic language to tell us that we faced a
generational struggle against the threat of jihadists to Britain.

'I agree with him. Tackling extremists and extremism to prevent British people
becoming terrorists at home and abroad is a huge priority.

'But the measures he announced were a damp squib. They did not amount to much
more than tough talking. It looks very much like he was playing politics with
security to deflect attention from the problems he is having within his own
party.'

In a further blow to Downing Street, the independent reviewer of terror laws
warned there would be 'significant difficulties' in stopping British-born
suspects re-entering the country.

It also emerged another proposal, to force terror suspects living in the UK to
be relocated away from other militants, might be blocked by Deputy Prime
Minister Nick Clegg, the Liberal Democrat leader.

The criticism increased the sense of disarray surrounding the 'targeted' package
of proposals unveiled by Mr Cameron.

A senior Tory criticised Downing Street for briefing ill-thought out terror
policies.

He said: 'They don't think, "Let's get a serious set of policies that may solve
the problem." They think, "Let's brief something that will get rid of this
problem for the next 72 hours." It is tactical media management, nothing else.'

David Anderson QC, the counter-terrorism watchdog, said there were 'legal
difficulties' with stopping British-born citizens who had been fighting abroad
from returning to the UK, as rendering them stateless would breach international
law.

The Prime Minister also wants to force airlines to hand over advanced passenger
information to the security services or be banned from landing planes in the UK.

Mr Anderson said: 'The whole concept of citizenship is about the right of
abode... if you're going to suspend that, even on a temporary basis, I think you
run into some legal difficulties.

'Where does the person go? Do they go back to Syria for a bit more jihad? Do
they go and find a beach somewhere in Turkey?

'The trouble with this game of pass the parcel, whether it comes to terrorists
or other criminals, is that if other people's terrorists or criminals find their
way to Great Britain, they too could say, "Well we wash our hands of these
people, we're not going to let them back, they're your problem".

LOAD-DATE: September 3, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDM


                   Copyright 2014 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              427 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                       BBC Monitoring Africa - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                           September 4, 2014 Thursday

UN rights agency condemns Boko Haram Sect's ongoing terror attacks in Nigeria

LENGTH: 479 words


Text of report by website of privately-owned Nigerian daily Leadership on 4
September

[Report by Abiodun Oluwarotimi: "UN condemns continuous Boko Haram attacks"]

The United Nations High Commission for Human Rights (UNHCR) yesterday condemned
the ongoing terrorist attacks in Nigeria, saying that the continuous attacks by
insurgent groups in north-east had prompted thousands of people to seek refuge
in Cameroon over the past 10 days, with some sleeping in schools and churches,
and children suffering from poor health.

Speaking with journalists in Geneva, UNHCR's spokesman, Adrian Edwards, said
that the agency was very concerned that the refugees were still being pursued by
insurgents even when they had crossed into Cameroon, noting that the agency had
already started to relocate some of the refugees to a refugee camp where they
could enjoy safer conditions.

It would be recalled that local authorities had earlier stated that in the last
10 days, at least 9,000 people had arrived in Cameroon's Far North Region and
more than 2,000 had sought refuge in Lake Chad Islands belonging to Niger, while
more people continue to arrive.

The new arrivals fled recurrent attacks in the past three weeks in the Gwoza
area in Nigeria's Borno State, before reaching safety in Cameroon. Authorities
report that 5,500 refugees have arrived in Kolofata, 3,000 in Kerawa and 370 in
Mora, in the Mayo Sava and Logone-et-Chari districts.

However, even after arrival in Cameroon, they are not necessarily out of harm's
way, according to UNHCR. On Sunday, insurgents attacked Kerawa town in Cameroon,
forcing refugees and some local residents to flee further inland.

"Our teams have had limited access to the border areas these past weeks because
of the increasing insecurity. Despite the volatile situation, we were able to go
to Mora over the weekend, where we met the new arrivals living in churches and
schools and with host families," Mr Edwards said.

The refugees said everyone had fled and that their villages in north-east
Nigeria were now empty. Immediate assistance has been provided by the
authorities, NGO Caritas, UNHCR and the host community.

The total number of Nigerian refugees in Cameroon now stands at some 39,000,
according to local authorities, including 19,633 who have been registered by
UNHCR.

The agency noted that insurgents crossed the border last week and attacked
villages on the Cameroon side, prompting some 1,700 local inhabitants to flee
further inland to villages near the border with Chad. Villagers fled in panic
after insurgents slit the throats of three people in a church in Assighassia.

The attackers also burnt down police and gendarmerie stations, a local cotton
company, and stole some 400 cows.

UNHCR is extremely concerned that attacks from insurgents seem to also now
target civilians in Cameroon.

Source: Leadership website, Abuja, in English 4 Sep 14

LOAD-DATE: September 4, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2014 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              428 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                            Belfast Telegraph Online

                     September 4, 2014 Thursday 5:52 PM GMT

Woman beheaded in a back garden in north London: 'Attack not terrorist related'

SECTION: UK

LENGTH: 393 words


A woman has been beheaded in a back garden in London.

The victim was found collapsed at an address in Nightingale Road, Edmonton,
north London, just after 1pm today.

Armed police have arrested a 25-year-old man on suspicion of murder, Scotland
Yard said, with one officer suffering a broken wrist during the arrest.

Taser stun guns were also fired.

Police said they did not believe there was a terrorist motive, with the
Metropolitan Police homicide and major crime command leading the investigation.

Detective Chief Inspector John Sandlin said "This was a highly visible attack in
broad daylight on a residential street. I can understand why this may cause
people concern. However, we are confident that we are not looking for anyone
else at this stage.

"Whilst it is too early to speculate on what the motive behind this attack was,
I am confident, based on the information currently available to me, that it is
not terrorist-related.

"Local officers and specialist detectives are at the scene and will remain there
for many hours to come.

"Specially-trained family liaison officers will be deployed to support the
family. We request that their privacy is respected at this very difficult time."

A police spokesman said the force was not prepared to comment on the exact
nature of the woman's injuries or the type of weapon or weapons used.

A police cordon was in place sealing off a section of Nightingale Road.

An ambulance was parked outside one house which was taped off and one of the
front windows was smashed. A uniformed officer stood outside and scenes of crime
personnel were gathered nearby.

It was not confirmed if that was the address where the incident happened.

Residents nearby told of their shock.

May Yapp, a retired clerical officer, said: "My husband was working in the
garden and he called and said come and have a look.

"We saw a lot of policeman and a helicopter. They smashed a window. We were
shocked."

Another local resident said armed police were at the scene.

Locals said they had been told to evacuate.

Muhammed Yusuf said police knocked on the door.

He said: "They just said 'You've got to get out of the house'. Of course I was
worried."

His son Ahmed,19, said: "At first there were two police cars, then all of a
sudden there were 20.

"The police said to drop everything. I said 'What's going on?' and they said
there's a guy jumping over gardens."

LOAD-DATE: September 4, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBBELT


           Copyright 2014 Independent News & Media (Northern Ireland)
                              All Rights Reserved

                              429 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                            Belfast Telegraph Online

                     September 4, 2014 Thursday 4:26 PM GMT

Woman beheaded in a back garden in north London: 'Attack not terrorist related'

SECTION: UK

LENGTH: 244 words


A woman has been beheaded in a back garden.

The victim was found at an address in Nightingale Road, Edmonton, north London,
just after 1pm today.

Scotland Yard gave few details but said that a man has been arrested.

The force said: "Police were called to an address in Nightingale Road at 13.07pm
today to reports of a stabbing incident.

"On arrival officers discovered a female collapsed in a garden area.

"A man has been detained and remains in custody.

"At this very early stage we are not in a position to give further details."

There is no suggestion that the killing had any terrorist motive.

Scotland Yard said a firearms officer had suffered a broken wrist in the course
of arresting the 25-year-old man who is being held on suspicion of murder.

Detective Chief Inspector John Sandlin, leading this investigation, said: "This
was a highly visible attack in broad daylight on a residential street. I can
understand why this may cause people concern, however we are confident that we
are not looking for anyone else at this stage.

"Whilst it is too early to speculate on what the motive behind this attack was I
am confident, based on the information currently available to me, that it is not
terrorist related.

"Local officers and specialist detectives are at the scene and will remain there
for many hours to come.

"Specially trained family liaison officers will be deployed to support the
family; we request that their privacy is respected at this very difficult time."

LOAD-DATE: September 4, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBBELT


           Copyright 2014 Independent News & Media (Northern Ireland)
                              All Rights Reserved

                              430 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                   MailOnline

                     September 4, 2014 Thursday 6:14 PM GMT

Woman is found beheaded 'with a machete' in London back garden - but police say
it is NOT terror attack

BYLINE: LEON WATSON FOR MAILONLINE

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 1585 words



     ·    Officers called to the north London address just after 1pm today
     ·    There they found the victim collapsed in a back garden
     ·    Some eyewitnesses said they saw a man killing cats beforehand
     ·    A Taser gun was deployed and a 25-year-old man arrested nearby
     ·    A police officer was injured during the arrest, suffering a broken
          wrist
     ·    The man was arrested on suspicion of murder and is in custody
     ·    Scotland Yard said there is no suggestion killing had terrorist motive


A woman has been beheaded in a back garden and a police officer injured after a
man reportedly went berserk with a machete today.

Specialist firearms officers were called to an address in Edmonton, north
London, to reports of a man with a knife attacking an animal just after 1pm.

There they found the victim collapsed in a garden. She was pronounced dead at
the scene.

A 25-year-old man was cornered by officers, who smashed through the windows of a
house.

Scotland Yard has confirmed tasers were deployed and that the man was arrested
on suspicion of murder and is in custody. He is also receiving medical treatment
after sustaining injuries in the arrest although the extent of them are not yet
known.

There is no suggestion that the killing had any terrorist motive and it is not
known whether the woman was his intended victim.

Scroll down for video

Police officers distracted the man to stop him attacking anyone else while they
evacuated houses, Metropolitan Police Commander Simon Letchford said.

He told reporters: 'There were a number of people resident. What we do know is
that this male has gone along a number of the back gardens of this premises.

'Officers who attended the scene have evacuated a number of those people from
those premises to make them safe.

'During that period they distracted the man from carrying out any further
attacks.'

He added that officers had smashed house windows to get people out after the man
had been 'cornered' in a house.

He continued: 'They (the officers) did everything they could to evacuate people
from those premises and that clearly they were aware of what had happened and
they put themselves in extreme danger to protect the public, to ensure that his
behaviour was stopped as soon as it possibly could be.'

Cmdr Letchford confirmed that police were called to the scene by initial reports
of a man attacking an animal, a cat or a dog.

A weapon was recovered at the scene but he would not reveal what it was.

The arrested man is currently in hospital being treated for injuries suffered
when he was arrested, he said.

Police will then determine when he can be interviewed.

Cmdr Letchford said they were still trying to establish the attacker's motive.

Eyewitnesses had reported seeing a 'madman with a machete' in the area around
lunchtime.

Sky News reports that other potential victims fled in a car from the area where
the attack took place.

It is believed they escaped the scene in a Blue Ford Focus car, which reportedly
made it only a few hundred yards before it was stopped.

Some also said they saw the man killing cats.

Two 'crying and screaming' young boys were lifted out a window by police from a
house where the woman was allegedly beheaded.

Taxi firm manger Kharul Islam, 40, saw the officers being handed two boys aged
around three and seven out of the window and then led to safety as they tried to
raid the house in Nightingale Road.

They surrounded the front and back door and asked a woman in the house to pass
out the weeping children.

He said: 'When the police arrived there was a lot of panic and they were trying
to get through the windows on the ground floor.

'They were talking to the family inside. I saw two kids being held out of the
window, I think they were boys by a woman. She looked like their mother and was
older than the guy arrested.Then the police smashed their way into the house.

'The family looked like they might be from Afghanistan. They were screaming and
crying. I saw a police lady holding both of them.

'The mother came out and then they went into the van.'

Commander Simon Letchford, who has been leading the investigation said it has
now been handed over to the Homicide and Major Crime unit. The Independent
Police Complaints Commission (IPCC) have also been informed after the man was
injured during the arrest.

He said officers cornered the man after smashing the windows of a house.
Commander Letchford said he had made his way through the back gardens of a
number of nearby properties before his arrest, while police evacuated those
inside.'

Rickie Benson, a builder working up the road from the horror scene, said: 'I
heard there was a man walking up the road cutting the head off a cat as he made
his way to the house.

'I saw them taking a body out. It was in a bag and they were putting it into an
ambulance at about 2.30. I heard someone was murdered in the house.'

Lauren Perkins, who lived on nearby Goodwin Road, told the Enfield Independent :
'I was walking down the road when I saw a man with a big knife walking down the
street.

'Then I saw some police come down and they told me to get off the road. I just
can't believe something like that would happen. It's just so shocking.'

The next door neighbour of the house where the attack took place, who wished not
to be named, said: 'I heard lots of screaming and shouting coming from next
door.

'Then a guy with a knife was in our back garden. There was a lot of blood on the
knife and he was just hacking away at stuff. It's just unbelievable, I'm so
shocked.'

George Stutianou, who was working on a nearby house when the attack happened,
said: 'There were so many police here, there must have been about 30 cars.

https://twitter.com/AndyLoveMP/status/507557352992944128

'I saw some police smashing the doors and the windows of three houses either
side through women and children.

'We were in the road and two policemen were running as fast as they could
towards us, shouting at us to run and get out of the street. We just didn't know
what was going on.'

Scotland Yard has so far refused to comment on reports the victim had been
decapitated and given few details of what happened.

DCI John Sandlin, who is leading this investigation, said: 'This is was a highly
visible attack in broad daylight on a residential street.

'I can understand why this may cause people concern, however we are confident
that we are not looking for anyone else at this stage.

'Whilst it is too early to speculate on what the motive behind this attack was I
am confident, based on the information currently available to me, that it is not
terrorist related.

'Local officers and specialist detectives are at the scene and will remain there
for many hours to come.

'Specially trained family liaison officers will be deployed to support the
family; we request that their privacy is respected at this very difficult time.'



Detectives from the Met's Homicide and Major Crime Command are leading the
investigation.

A spokeswoman from the London Ambulance Service confirmed the victim was found
dead at the scene.

She said: 'We were called at 1.30pm to an incident in Nightingale Road,
Edmonton. We sent a number of resources to the scene including London's Air
Ambulance, an ambulance crew and a duty officer.

'Sadly a woman was pronounced dead at the scene by the doctor from London's Air
Ambulance.'

Witness Ricardo Kwiek told Sky News: 'We've seen a lot of police coming in. They
got to the door, and when they got there, the person didn't want to let them in.

'But the police wanted to get in through the back, and the person wouldn't let
them in. So they broke the door down. After that there was a man that came out
and they got him.

'But he was fighting with police - and they got him in the police van. Some
local people that maybe seen it closer, they said they saw two children.

'But I'm not 100 per cent sure about that because that's what the locals told
me. I wasn't that close to see what he looked like.

'When the police arrived we were shocked to see so much police in one second,
that was very weird for us. There was around maybe 40 police cars that came in
and blocked the road.

They broke the door down. After that there was a man that came out and they got
him

'I think they handled it pretty good, because straight away they blocked off the
area and told people to come out of their houses. Some of the police are still
outside investigating what happened.'

The road is a typical suburban street in the London Borough of Edmonton. The
average house value on there is £310,000, while it is £275,000 in the local N9
postcode area.

Twitter users reacted with shock following the incident.

Kelly Gannon said: 'Edmonton makes me so sick there's always some kind of
killing going on.'

'Sultanic_10' said: 'Nightingale Road is where my secondary school was, there's
obviously a secondary school and a primary school very nearby.'

And Alex Ioanno, of nearby Enfield, said: 'Used to walk down Nightingale Road
every day and a woman's been beheaded. Stay safe people, it's a crazy world.'

Fashion designer Moyowa Akitikori said on Twitter: 'Someone just beheaded near
my road. I'm so not leaving my house.

'Just this afternoon is just so sad like I go running on Nightingale Road and
just when I thought I lived in a safe area [sic].'

And Matthew Williamson ‏said: 'I chose the right day to be working off
Nightingale Road. Woman [has] been beheaded on the next b***** road. What is
wrong with this world?'

Cuckoo Hall Primary School is located just off Nightingale Road, but a spokesman
declined to comment on the situation nearby when approached by MailOnline.

LOAD-DATE: September 4, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDM


                   Copyright 2014 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              431 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                   MailOnline

                     September 4, 2014 Thursday 5:51 PM GMT

BREAKING NEWS: Woman is found beheaded 'with a machete' in London back garden -
but police say it is NOT terror attack

BYLINE: LEON WATSON FOR MAILONLINE

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 1320 words



     ·    Officers called to the north London address just after 1pm today
     ·    There they found the victim collapsed in a back garden
     ·    Some eyewitnesses said they saw a man killing cats beforehand
     ·    A Taser gun was deployed and a 25-year-old man arrested nearby
     ·    A police officer was injured during the arrest, suffering a broken
          wrist
     ·    The man was arrested on suspicion of murder and is in custody
     ·    Scotland Yard said there is no suggestion killing had terrorist motive


A woman has been beheaded in a back garden and a police officer injured after a
man reportedly went berserk with a machete today.

Specialist firearms officers were deployed to an address in Edmonton, north
London, just after 1pm. There they found the victim collapsed in a garden. She
was pronounced dead at the scene.

A 25-year-old man was detained by firearms officers near the scene. One firearms
officer was injured during the arrest and is believed to be suffering from a
broken wrist.

A Taser was discharged by officers. Scotland Yard has confirmed the man was
arrested on suspicion of murder and is in custody. He is also receiving medical
treatment after sustaining injuries in the arrest.

There is no suggestion that the killing had any terrorist motive and it is not
known whether the woman was his intended victim.

Scroll down for video

Eyewitnesses had reported seeing a 'madman with a machete' in the area around
lunchtime.

Sky News reports that other potential victims fled in a car from the area where
the attack took place.

It is believed they escaped the scene in a Blue Ford Focus car, which reportedly
made it only a few hundred yards before it was stopped.

Some also said they saw the man killing cats.

Two 'crying and screaming' young boys were lifted out a window by police from a
house where the woman was allegedly beheaded.

Taxi firm manger Kharul Islam, 40, saw the officers being handed two boys aged
around three and seven out of the window and then led to safety as they tried to
raid the house in Nightingale Road.

They surrounded the front and back door and asked a woman in the house to pass
out the weeping children.

He said: 'When the police arrived there was a lot of panic and they were trying
to get through the windows on the ground floor.

'They were talking to the family inside. I saw two kids being held out of the
window, I think they were boys by a woman. She looked like their mother and was
older than the guy arrested.Then the police smashed their way into the house.

'The family looked like they might be from Afghanistan. They were screaming and
crying. I saw a police lady holding both of them.

'The mother came out and then they went into the van.'

Rickie Benson, a builder working up the road from the horror scene, said: 'I
heard there was a man walking up the road cutting the head off a cat as he made
his way to the house.

'I saw them taking a body out. It was in a bag and they were putting it into an
ambulance at about 2.30. I heard someone was murdered in the house.'

Casmir Afugbuom, 37, said: 'I can't believe something like this has happened. It
is not an area like this. I have lived here 20 years everyone here is mainly
Nigerian, Turkish or Polish. Whoever did this is obviously. I heard they used a
machete.'

Lauren Perkins, who lived on nearby Goodwin Road, told the Enfield Independent :
'I was walking down the road when I saw a man with a big knife walking down the
street.

'Then I saw some police come down and they told me to get off the road. I just
can't believe something like that would happen. It's just so shocking.'

The next door neighbour of the house where the attack took place, who wished not
to be named, said: 'I heard lots of screaming and shouting coming from next
door.

'Then a guy with a knife was in our back garden. There was a lot of blood on the
knife and he was just hacking away at stuff. It's just unbelievable, I'm so
shocked.'

George Stutianou, who was working on a nearby house when the attack happened,
said: 'There were so many police here, there must have been about 30 cars.

https://twitter.com/AndyLoveMP/status/507557352992944128

'I saw some police smashing the doors and the windows of three houses either
side through women and children.

'We were in the road and two policemen were running as fast as they could
towards us, shouting at us to run and get out of the street. We just didn't know
what was going on.'

Scotland Yard has so far refused to comment on reports the victim had been
decapitated and given few details of what happened.

DCI John Sandlin, who is leading this investigation, said: 'This is was a highly
visible attack in broad daylight on a residential street.

'I can understand why this may cause people concern, however we are confident
that we are not looking for anyone else at this stage.

'Whilst it is too early to speculate on what the motive behind this attack was I
am confident, based on the information currently available to me, that it is not
terrorist related.

'Local officers and specialist detectives are at the scene and will remain there
for many hours to come.

'Specially trained family liaison officers will be deployed to support the
family; we request that their privacy is respected at this very difficult time.'



Detectives from the Met's Homicide and Major Crime Command are leading the
investigation.

A spokeswoman from the London Ambulance Service confirmed the victim was found
dead at the scene.

She said: 'We were called at 1.30pm to an incident in Nightingale Road,
Edmonton. We sent a number of resources to the scene including London's Air
Ambulance, an ambulance crew and a duty officer.

'Sadly a woman was pronounced dead at the scene by the doctor from London's Air
Ambulance.'

Witness Ricardo Kwiek told Sky News: 'We've seen a lot of police coming in. They
got to the door, and when they got there, the person didn't want to let them in.

'But the police wanted to get in through the back, and the person wouldn't let
them in. So they broke the door down. After that there was a man that came out
and they got him.

'But he was fighting with police - and they got him in the police van. Some
local people that maybe seen it closer, they said they saw two children.

'But I'm not 100 per cent sure about that because that's what the locals told
me. I wasn't that close to see what he looked like.

'When the police arrived we were shocked to see so much police in one second,
that was very weird for us. There was around maybe 40 police cars that came in
and blocked the road.

They broke the door down. After that there was a man that came out and they got
him

'I think they handled it pretty good, because straight away they blocked off the
area and told people to come out of their houses. Some of the police are still
outside investigating what happened.'

The road is a typical suburban street in the London Borough of Edmonton. The
average house value on there is £310,000, while it is £275,000 in the local N9
postcode area.

Twitter users reacted with shock following the incident.

Kelly Gannon said: 'Edmonton makes me so sick there's always some kind of
killing going on.'

'Sultanic_10' said: 'Nightingale Road is where my secondary school was, there's
obviously a secondary school and a primary school very nearby.'

And Alex Ioanno, of nearby Enfield, said: 'Used to walk down Nightingale Road
every day and a woman's been beheaded. Stay safe people, it's a crazy world.'

Fashion designer Moyowa Akitikori said on Twitter: 'Someone just beheaded near
my road. I'm so not leaving my house.

'Just this afternoon is just so sad like I go running on Nightingale Road and
just when I thought I lived in a safe area [sic].'

And Matthew Williamson ‏said: 'I chose the right day to be working off
Nightingale Road. Woman [has] been beheaded on the next b***** road. What is
wrong with this world?'

Cuckoo Hall Primary School is located just off Nightingale Road, but a spokesman
declined to comment on the situation nearby when approached by MailOnline.

LOAD-DATE: September 4, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDM


                   Copyright 2014 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              432 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                   MailOnline

                     September 4, 2014 Thursday 2:12 PM GMT

Taliban target Afghan intelligence agency in double truck bomb attack killing
18: Almost 20 terrorists died in follow-up gun battle

BYLINE: DARREN BOYLE FOR MAILONLINE

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 524 words



     ·    Taliban claims responsibility for dawn raid on Afghanistan's
          US-trained National Directorate of Security building
     ·    Terrorists detonated two truck bombs simultaneously before trying to
          storm the NDS compound on foot
     ·    Afghan officials admit 18 soldiers, police officers and civilians were
          killed in this morning's attack with 200 injured


The Taliban claimed responsibility today for a double truck bomb attack on
Afghanistan's US trained intelligence agency which killed 18 people and injuring
150.

The co-ordinated attack on the complex in Ghazni, central Afghanistan was the
biggest Taliban offensive in recent weeks.

Two trucks packed with explosives were used in the attack. One of the vehicles
was parked outside the rear gate of the National Directorate of Security
building, while the second truck was left outside a police building containing a
rapid reaction force.

Both trucks were detonated simultaneously at sunrise before a group of Taliban
attempted to storm both buildings armed with rocket-propelled grenades, assault
rifles and light machine guns.

One of the bombs left a ten-metre hole crater in the ground. The attack also
destroyed the city's library and two museums.

Provincial governor for the Ghazni region Musa Khan Akbarzada said that 19
Taliban were involved in the atrocity.

He said: 'The bombs were so powerful that many civilians were wounded because of
falling roofs and shattering of windows in their homes.'

The attackers fought a gun battle with members of the US trained NDS as they
tried to storm the compound.

Dozens of the wounded were taken to a lone hospital in Ghazni where doctors were
forced to treat many of them outside.

The attack in Ghazni, one of the provinces that surround the capital city of
Kabul, is the latest in a series of offensives launched by the Taliban in the
summer fighting season.

Insurgents have carried out complex attacks on government installations,
including in Logar and Wardak provinces which are the gateways to the heavily
guarded national capital.

Taliban spokesman Zabihullah Mujahid claimed responsibility for the attack and
said dozens of Afghan soldiers were killed.

'It is a success for us and failure to our enemies that they didn't even notice
how our fighters in big numbers reached the intelligence agency with
explosive-laden cars and carried out attacks.'

The attack on the NDS was the second in less than a week after a similar bombing
in the eastern city of Jalalabad.

Afghan officials have in the past blamed such truck bombings near the capital
and in Kabul itself on the Haqqani network, one of the deadliest Taliban
factions.

The network based along the border with Pakistan is believed to be behind some
of the most audacious attacks in Kabul including the bombing of the Indian
embassy and the 2011 attack on the US embassy.

A prolonged political deadlock over a disputed presidential election has added
to anxiety over the threat posed by the Taliban once most foreign combat forces
leave by the end of this year.

The troubled political transition has led to a prolonged delay in signing a
security pact with the United States governing how many troops will remain.

LOAD-DATE: September 4, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDM


                   Copyright 2014 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              433 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                   MailOnline

                     September 4, 2014 Thursday 1:14 PM GMT

Taliban target Afghan intelligence agency in double truck bomb attack killing
18: Almost 20 terrorists killed in follow-up gun battle

BYLINE: DARREN BOYLE FOR MAILONLINE

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 486 words


GHAZNI, Afghanistan, Sept 4 (Reuters) - Taliban insurgents detonated truck bombs
and fired rocket-propelled grenades outside the office of Afghanistan's spy
agency and a police compound in the central town of Ghazni on Thursday, killing
18 people, the provincial governor said.

More than 150 people were wounded in the attack, the biggest in recent weeks, as
Afghanistan's leadership grapples with a political crisis and a security vacuum
as most foreign troops prepare to leave the country.

Ghazni provincial governor Musa Khan Akbarzada said a group of 19 insurgents was
involved in the simultaneous attacks on the local office of the National
Directorate of Security and a quick reaction team housed in the police building.

The men armed with light machine guns drew up in trucks at a back gate of the
NDS, the crack U.S.-trained agency leading the fight against the insurgency, and
the police building early on Thursday and exploded their bombs.

"The bombs were so powerful that many civilians were wounded because of falling
roofs and shattering of windows in their homes," Akbarzada said. Soon after,
several of the attackers entered the NDS compound and fought a gunbattle with
Afghan forces.

Dozens of the wounded were taken to a lone hospital in Ghazni where doctors were
forced to treat many of them outside.

The attack in Ghazni, one of the provinces that surround the capital city of
Kabul, is the latest in a series of offensives launched by the Taliban in the
summer fighting season.

Insurgents have carried out complex attacks on government installations,
including in Logar and Wardak provinces which are the gateways to the heavily
guarded national capital.

TALIBAN CLAIM MAJOR SUCCESS

Taliban spokesman Zabihullah Mujahid claimed responsibility for the attack and
said dozens of Afghan soldiers were killed.

"It is a success for us and failure to our enemies that they didn't even notice
how our fighters in big numbers reached the intelligence agency with
explosive-laden cars and carried out attacks," Mujahid said.

The attack on the NDS was the second in less than a week after a similar bombing
in the eastern city of Jalalabad.

Afghan officials have in the past blamed such truck bombings near the capital
and in Kabul itself on the Haqqani network, one of the deadliest Taliban
factions.

The network based along the border with Pakistan is believed to be behind some
of the most audacious attacks in Kabul including the bombing of the Indian
embassy and the 2011 attack on the U.S. embassy.

A prolonged political deadlock over a disputed presidential election has added
to anxiety over the threat posed by the Taliban once most foreign combat forces
leave by the end of this year.

The troubled political transition has led to a prolonged delay in signing a
security pact with the United States governing how many troops will remain.
(Writing by Sanjeev Miglani and Hamid Shalizi,; Editing by Jeremy Laurence)

LOAD-DATE: September 4, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDM


                   Copyright 2014 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              434 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                        Progressive Media - Company News

                           September 4, 2014 Thursday

US intelligence report warns of terrorist attacks by missing Libyan planes

SECTION: AFRICA AND THE MIDDLE EAST; Government and Public Interest

LENGTH: 251 words



HIGHLIGHT: Western intelligence agencies have issued a warning that eleven
missing airplanes from Libya's Tripoli International Airport could be used in
terrorist attacks ahead of the 9/11 anniversary.


Western intelligence agencies have issued a warning that eleven missing
airplanes from Libya's Tripoli International Airport could be used in terrorist
attacks ahead of the 9/11 anniversary.

After Islamist militias identifying themselves as Libyan Dawn took control of
the airport last month, aircraft from the state-owned Libyan Airlines and
Afriqiyah Airways were found to be missing. During the past two weeks,
intelligence reports were distributed within the US Government that spoke about
one or more planes being used in a possible attack on the anniversary of 9/11
later this month.

The Washington Free Beacon quoted a US official as saying: "There are a number
of commercial airliners in Libya that are missing. We found out on 11 September
what can happen with hijacked planes."

Officials were further quoted as saying that US intelligence agencies have not
confirmed the theft following the takeover of Tripoli International Airport and
were trying to locate the missing aircraft, as security in the country continues
to deteriorate amid fighting between Islamists and anti-Islamist militias.

The missing aircraft raises an additional serious counter-terrorism concern, as
9/11 also marks the second anniversary of the Libyan terrorist attack on the US
diplomatic compound in Benghazi, which killed four US citizens.

The Metro UK newspaper reported that the intelligence reports presented another
scenario, where a plane with civilian markings could be used to transport armed
terrorists to an airport.

LOAD-DATE: September 05, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 2014 Progressive Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              435 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                          The Guardian - Final Edition

                            September 5, 2014 Friday

Woman is found beheaded after man with knife terrorises suburban street: Attack
on 82-year-old not terror-related, say police: Residents evacuated as suspect
went on rampage

BYLINE: Vikram Dodd and Peter Walker

SECTION: GUARDIAN HOME PAGES; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 744 words


A man has been arrested on suspicion of murder after an elderly woman was
beheaded in broad daylight in a suburban back garden.

The victim, named by police last night as Palmira Silva, 82, was found at an
address in Edmonton, north London, just after 1pm yesterday. Residents described
scenes of terror and panic as the suspect, dressed in black, waved a
machete-like weapon and wandered screaming and shouting through private gardens.

Police said a man had run through back gardens armed with a weapon, with
officers smashing windows to evacuate terrified residents. Armed officers were
sent to the scene. The Metropolitan police said the 25-year-old man was cornered
in a house, Tasered, then arrested, and that one officer broke his wrist in the
struggle.

The suspect was taken to hospital after suffering injuries during his arrest.

Officers from the Met are also investigating an attempted attack on two people
at another house in the road before Silva was killed.

Tributes were paid last night to Silva, who is thought to have been of Italian
descent and to have worked in a nearby cafe. A neighbour said the widow was
"such a sweet lady" who had lived in the house for more than 25 years.

The neighbour, who did not want to be named, said: "I was speaking to her
yesterday. She was weeding in the front garden, she loved her gardening. She was
sitting having a rest. I said, 'You've been doing such hard work, your flowers
are beautiful.' She said, 'I know'. "She was such a sweet lady. She was slow
getting around, but she still went to work."

Police said they were received a call at 1.07pm from residents reporting a man
armed with a knife who was attacking a cat or dog. On their arrival, they found
a woman collapsed in a garden.

Officers said the woman's next of kin had been notified. Police would not
confirm the injuries suffered, or the weapon or weapons used to inflict them.

The attack on the woman is not believed by police to be terrorist-related.

A neighbour, Freda Odame, said she was about to go to sleep when she heard
shouting and banging. "I opened my curtains and I saw a man with a knife a few
gardens down," she said. "He was screaming - I couldn't hear any words - and
looked frantic. You could see he seemed aggressive."

The man was waving the weapon over the grass, "as if he was looking for
something on the floor", she added. "I drew the curtains straight away in case
he saw me, and called for my husband." Within five minutes police arrived at the
house and evacuated them, she said.

Another local resident described seeing a man brandishing a machete and shouting
about cats. The witness, who did not want to be named, said: "There was a
scream, so I went to the windows and saw a guy with a machete with blood
dripping from it. We saw a cat on the floor without a head."

The knifeman then appeared in the witness's garden and began swiping at plants,
he said. "He started cutting roses. We were just trying to call the police. You
can't think anything in that situation. He asked our neighbour if he had seen a
cat and the neighbour was afraid and walked inside."

At one point the man climbed on top of a garage, he said. "He appeared in the
alleyway and I saw him raising the machete," the man said. "Then he came to a
front door and nobody answered, so he started to bash the windows."

Neighbour Muhammed Yusuf said police knocked on his door: "They just said,
'You've got to get out of the house.'"

His son Ahmed, 19, added: "At first there were two police cars, then all of a
sudden there were 20."

Commander Simon Letchford of the Metropolitan police said his officers "did
everything they could to evacuate people from those premises, and clearly they
were aware of what had happened and put themselves in extreme danger to protect
the public".

Police said nothing had emerged suggesting that the victim knew her attacker,
and said they had recovered a weapon.

DCI John Sandlin, who is leading the investigation, said: "We are not looking
for anyone else at this stage. While it is too early to speculate on what the
motive behind this attack was, I am confident, based on the information
currently available to me, that it is not terrorist-related."

Palmira Silva was named by police as the woman found beheaded in north London
after a rampage by a man wielding a knife

Captions:

Forensic investigators prepare to examine the scene in Edmonton, north London,
where Palmira Silva was found dead yesterday afternoon Photograph: Oli
Scarff/Getty

LOAD-DATE: September 5, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2014 Guardian Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              436 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                   MailOnline

                      September 5, 2014 Friday 9:35 PM GMT

Scotland will be more at risk of a terrorist attack if it votes for
independence, Cameron warns

BYLINE: TOM MCTAGUE, MAILONLINE DEPUTY POLITICAL EDITOR

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 958 words



     ·    PM said the UK had the best security and intelligence services in the
          world
     ·    He urged Scots to stay together in a 'very dangerous and insecure
          world'
     ·    The PM said this was one of the 'strongest arguments' against
          separation
     ·    Came after Gordon Brown said he would push for further devolution
     ·    The former Prime Minister's declaration signals a return to front-line
          politics
     ·    Ex party leader among Labour MPs involved in final push against
          separation
     ·    Comes amid mounting alarm voters are swinging behind a 'Yes' vote


David Cameron today warned that Scotland would be more at risk from terrorism if
it votes for independence.

The Prime Minister said the United Kingdom had the best security and
intelligence services in the world to keep people safe.

He said the safety of staying together in a 'very dangerous and insecure world'
was one of the 'strongest arguments' against separation.

Scroll down for video

Mr Cameron, speaking at the end of the two-day Nato conference in Wales, said:
'I don't think anyone can be in any doubt we live in a very dangerous and
insecure world.

'I would have thought one of the strongest arguments that those of us who want
to see the United Kingdom stay together can make is in that dangerous world and
insecure world of terrorist threats and other threats isn't it better to be part
of the United Kingdom?'

He said the UK 'has a top five defence budget, that has some of the best
security and intelligence services anywhere in the world, that is part of every
single alliance that really matters in the world in terms of Nato, the G8, the
G20 European Union, a permanent member of the Security Council of the UN'.

Mr Cameron added: 'To have all those networks and abilities to work with allies
to keep us safe, isn't it better to have those things than to separate
yourselves from them.

'Those are some of the arguments we will be making in the weeks to come before
this vital vote.'

Mr Cameron's remarks came after the former Prime Minister Gordon Brown vowed to
lead a campaign for more powers for Scotland if it rejects independence in this
month's referendum.

The former prime minister, signalling his return to front line politics, said he
would push for further devolution within weeks of the September 18 vote.

Mr Brown is among senior Labour figures being deployed in a final push by the
party to prevent its supporters being won over by the Scottish National Party.

With polls suggesting a late swing towards the Yes camp, Mr Brown urged voters
not to 'abandon' the huge value to Scotland of pooling resources with the rest
of the UK in areas such as pensions and healthcare.

He told an audience of activists and politicians at Westminster that he had
asked Speaker John Bercow to allow him to lead a debate when the Commons resumes
business in October to galvanise cross-party support for reforms.

A pledge of extra tax and legal powers for Holyrood in the event of a rejection
of independence in the popular vote has been signed by the leaders of all three
main Westminster parties.

Mr Brown said the aim should be the 'maximum local decision-making powers that
is possible' while maintaining the union.

'The status quo is not now an option. A no vote does not mean no change.'

He said: 'A no vote will usher in the further constitutional reforms in social,
economic and fiscal affairs and a no vote will mean the choice you have made is
against separation but for further devolution to the Scottish Parliament.

'Over the next few months after the referendum, we can take the lead in ensuring
that these powers - that the Conservatives and Liberals say they would support -
can be implemented as quickly as possible.

'I have asked the Speaker that when Parliament returns after the referendum in
October, that in the first week he allows me to lead a debate about how we can
secure the timetable and the delivery of the further devolution proposals.

'This is not like 1979 when the then-Conservative government promised change and
then denied us it. This is like 1997 when the Labour government came in and,
within a year, had delivered its promise of a Scottish parliament.

'When we are talking about the future of the constitution, London must and will
change, Westminster must and will change, and, of course, the United Kingdom
must and will change.'

He told the meeting - hosted by Blairite pressure group Progress - that the No
camp 'will accept whatever result comes our way'.

'But the Scottish National Party have got to recognise that if they lose this...
we have got to get back to the issues of improving public services.

'I think the Conservatives will have to accept these proposals... the strong
weight of opinion for them.

'We stand ready to talk to other parties about how we could reach a consensus on
these proposals for the future.'

Mr Brown said the UK was a uniquely successful arrangement anywhere in the
world.

It offered pooled resources across four nations 'to guarantee to anyone no
matter where they are in any part of the United Kingdom that they have the same
right to healthcare, to help when unemployed, to dignity in retirement and, of
course, to dignity and support when they are sick, disabled or vulnerable.

'That is a principle that we should never abandon.'

He dismissed SNP plans for a corporation tax cut as 'the Scots Nats backing the
fat cats and obviously cheered on by the cybernats'.

He also dismissed the level of demand for an English parliament.

'The English do not want a parliament of their own. If they wanted it, that
would be an issue, but there is no evidence that there is a desire for an
English parliament,' he said.

'We have got to recognise the assymetric nature of the British constitution,
find a way of accommodating the ambitions of all the different nations - and
indeed the regions.'

LOAD-DATE: September 5, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDM


                   Copyright 2014 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              437 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                            Manchester Evening News

                            September 5, 2014 Friday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

Horror as woman, 82, is beheaded in London garden;
Terrorist attack ruled out following grim discovery

BYLINE: Margaret Davis

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 284 words


AWOMAN has been beheaded in broad daylight in a suburban back garden.

Palmira Silva, 82, who is believed to be of Italian descent, was found dead
outside a house in Edmonton, north London. Scotland Yard said that while formal
identification has yet to take place, its officers were satisfied that she was
the victim discovered in Nightingale Road. They ruled out a terrorist attack.

A 25-year-old man was Tasered and arrested on suspicion of murder at the scene
by armed officers, some of whom were injured in a struggle. He is under guard in
hospital.

The house in the busy street where Ms Silva's body was found was the scene of a
major police operation.

Scotland Yard revealed its officers distracted the man after he was seen going
through back gardens in Nightingale Road to prevent him attacking anyone else
while they evacuated people.

Neighbours described the terrifying scene as events unfolded.

Restaurant worker Freda Odame, 30, said she was about to go to sleep after
working a night shift when she heard a commotion at around 1pm. She said: "I
heard shouting and banging and I saw a guy holding a knife in a back garden.

"He was screaming, I couldn't make out the words. I was shaking and I just shut
the curtains.

"I was worried he might see me. Then the police knocked on the door and said
'You've got to get out, you've got to get out'."

Resident Muhammed Yusuf described the moment police knocked on his door. They
just said 'You've got to get out of the house'. Of course I was worried," he
said.

His son Ahmed, 19, added: "The police said to drop everything. I said 'What's
going on?' and they said there's a guy jumping over gardens."

'I heard shouting and banging and I saw a guy holding a knife'

LOAD-DATE: September 5, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: MEN


                     Copyright 2014 Manchester Evening News
                              All Rights Reserved

                              438 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                     September 5, 2014 Friday 10:00 PM GMT

Independent Scotland more at risk of terrorist attacks, warns David Cameron;
An independent Scotland's future in Nato was a matter of 'total confusion',
alongside its membership of the European Union and its currency, the Prime
Minister said.

BYLINE: By Christopher Hope Senior Political Correspondent

LENGTH: 425 words


Scotland will be at greater risk of terrorist attacks if it becomes an
independent country, David Cameron has suggested.

Speaking at the end of the Nato summit in south Wales, Mr Cameron said Scotland
will be safer in a "dangerous and insecure world" as part of the United Kingdom.
The Nato summit is "a time when you reflect on the dangers of our world", Mr
Cameron told journalists in Newport.

An independent Scotland's future in Nato was a matter of "total confusion",
alongside its membership of the European Union and its currency, he said.

Voters will be asked whether Scotland should be an independent country in a
referendum on September 18.

Defence has been a key part of the debate ahead of the referendum because of the
SNP's commitment to remove nuclear submarines from an independent Scotland.

He said: "Obviously, at a Nato conference it's a time when you reflect on the
dangers in our world and I don't think anybody can be in any doubt that we live
in a very dangerous and insecure world.

"I would have thought one of the strongest arguments that those of us that want
to see the United Kingdom stay together can make is: in that dangerous and
insecure world with terrorist threats and other threats, isn't it better to be
part of a United Kingdom that has a top five defence budget and some of the best
security and intelligence services anywhere in the world?

"That is part of every single alliance that really matters in the world, in
terms of Nato, the G8, the G20, the European Union, a permanent member of the
security council of UN.

"To have all those networks and abilities to work with allies to keep us safe,
isn't it better to have those things than to separate yourself from them?"

He added: "There is total confusion about whether a separated Scotland would
have a place in the European Union or in Nato, or what currency it would use and
all the rest of it.

"In terms of the last two weeks of this (referendum) campaign, what I will be
wanting to stress is just what a vital and important question this is."

Separately, in an interview with The Daily Telegraph, Labour shadow Cabinet
minister and Scottish MP Jim Murphy said that Mr Cameron would not have to
resign if Scots vote to become independent.

He said: "I don't think anyone has to resign - not David Cameron, not Ed
Miliband, not Alex Salmond. This is bigger than that, more important than that.

"All politicians are temporary. This result is permanent. This is more important
than David Cameron. Of course I want rid of David Cameron, but that's next
year's debate."

LOAD-DATE: September 6, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTNS


                  Copyright 2014 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              439 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                       BBC Monitoring Europe - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                           September 6, 2014 Saturday

Norwegian gas plant in Algeria reopens more than 19 months after terror attack

LENGTH: 523 words


Text of report by Norwegian radio on 1 September

[Report by Eirin Larsen: "Back to the Daily Round at In Amenas"]

On 16 January 2013, a group of armed Islamists launched an attack on the gas
plant at In Amenas in southeast Algeria. They took around 700 workers hostage,
some 100 of them foreigners. Including five Norwegians who were at the facility,
40 employees were killed.

In January, a year after the attack, Statoil said that it was still too
dangerous to return. In July, fewer than 10 employees, among them Norwegians,
were sent back to the plant to ensure the security there and to prepare for a
relaunch there.

Now Statoil says that adequate security measures have been implemented and it is
safe to return to the plant - but it is following developments in the area with
the eyes of Argus.

"At the same time, this is a restless region and we are following the situation
closely. We are prepared to implement immediate measures if anything changes,"
press spokesman Knut Rostad at Statoil tells NRK.

Not Engaged in Full Production

"The decision to resume ordinary operations at In Amenas too is a result of a
thorough and piecemeal process to identify necessary security measures, to
implement these and to verify that they are in place and working," says Lars
Christian Bacher, head of group for Development and Production International
(DPI).

Yet the daily round is not entirely as it was before. The plant is still damaged
from the terror attack in January 2012 [date as received].

"There are fewer employees connected with the plant than before the attack. This
is due to the fact that production is still reduced on the basis of damage to
the facility, which must be repaired," says Rostad.

"The work to restore the damage started a short time after the terror attack but
it will still be a while before it is entirely restored and we are back at
normal production," he adds.

More Dialogue With Algerian Authorities

After the operation, Statoil pulled all personnel out of the production
facilities in Algeria; this applied to the plants at In Salah and Hassi Messaoud
too, in addition to In Amenas. Resumption of ordinary activity at the two other
facilities was approved during the fall of 2013 and in early 2014. In November
2013, 40 Statoil employees were back at the Hassi Messaoud plant.

New physical security measures are now in place at all the production sites. In
addition, the organization of the security work both at Statoil and at on the
part of the other operators at the plant has been reorganized and better
dialogue with the Algerian authorities has been established in connection with
securing the facilities. [sentence as received] The Algerian authorities have
also taken the initiative on their own security measures and have implemented
them," according to Statoil.

"Together with our partners, we will now continue systematic work with a view to
keeping the security measures' quality at a high level, making sure that we have
a good understanding of the threat scenario and adjusting the security measures
if there is a need for that," says Lars Christian Bacher.

Source: NRK P1 radio, Oslo, in Norwegian 1 Sep 14

LOAD-DATE: September 6, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2014 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              440 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                       BBC Monitoring Europe - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                           September 6, 2014 Saturday

Swedish security agency averts terror attacks planned by local Islamists

LENGTH: 1046 words


Text of report by Swedish newspaper Aftonbladet website on 3 September

[Report on interview with Anders Kassman, head of operations at the Swedish
Security Police, and Daniel Larsson, head of the National Centre for Terrorist
Threat Assessment, by Wolfgang Hansson in Solna, Sweden; date not given:
"Aftonbladet Reveals: 'Two Terrorist Attacks in Sweden Were Averted'"]

SAPO [Swedish Security Service] has revealed previously unknown attacks.

In recent years, SAPO has averted two terrorist attacks in Sweden.

Militant Islamists were behind the planning, which was in "a very advanced stage
when the Security Service stopped them."

"We had previously chosen not to report the averted attacks," said Anders
Kassman, SAPO head of operations.

It came as a shock when suicide bomber Taimour Abdulwahab exploded a bomb in
central Stockholm in December 2010. SAPO had not had any surveillance on him.
Because the Swedish-Iraqi had been living in English immediately before he
travelled to Stockholm to carry out his attack, he had been under the radar.

Managed to Stop Two Attacks in Time

The attack made it clear that Sweden is a target for Islamist terrorism. No
attack has occurred since, but according to SAPO, that is because they were able
to stop two other attacks in time.

"Even though they did not necessarily involve suicide bombings," said SAPO
operational chief Anders Kassman.

I met Kassman and Daniel Larsson, head of NCT, the National Centre for Terrorism
Assessment, at SAPO's new and ultramodern headquarters in Solna. We sat in a
cramped conference room with blue chairs and a view of a rail yard.

Normally visitors are not allowed to bring mobile phones or computers with them.
I was given a dispensation for my mobile, so that I could record the
conversation.

SAPO, said the two officials in business suits, got wind of the two planned
attacks through its own surveillance and intelligence gathering. The attacks
were planned by violence-affirming Islamists resident in Sweden, and the targets
were here in Sweden.

Sweden is a Target

In contrast to what many Swedes might believe, Sweden is a target.

"The threat assessment for Sweden is even more serious than it is for certain
other countries in Europe. We are among the targets most often named.

Sweden's military involvement in Muslim countries like Afghanistan is one reason
for this. Another is Lars Vilks' drawing of a roundabout dog, which has been
difficult to erase from radical Muslims' consciousness.

Kassman refused to go into detail about the planned targets in the two cases, or
how large the loss of human life could have been.

"We are talking about terrorist attacks. That fact alone is serious."

Did Not Want to Alarm the Public

The reason these incidents were not reported earlier was a reluctance to alarm
the public unnecessarily

"The purpose of our work is to prevent something from happening," Kassman said.
"We have no real reason to make this public. We do not want to cause unnecessary
alarm."

That was before the Norwegian police went public in July and issued a warning
that a terrorist attack in Norway could be imminent.

"We have had situations where there were concrete terrorist plans when we could
have done the same thing, but we chose not to go public. But this is definitely
an option even though you do not want to do this too often."

Biggest Threat: Violence-Affirming Islamists

SAPO considers that today's biggest terrorist threat comes from
violence-affirming Islamists. The biggest source of danger is Swedish citizens,
often with an immigrant background, who go to Syria and other trouble spots in
order to fight for the jihadists. When they return, they are often traumatized
and more radicalized.

"Among these individuals, there could be both the will and the ability to commit
terrorist attacks," Larsson said.

Signals Intelligence Aimed at Returnees from Trouble Spots

SAPO makes use of voluntary conversations as follow-up on returnees. But in some
cases, signals intelligence or other coercive means are decided on in
cooperation with the public prosecutor.

Officially SAPO says that some 80 individuals have gone to Syria, but in reality
the figure is considerably higher.

"There is a hidden figure which naturally makes our work more complicated. We
are dependent on tips from relatives and the public."

"Major Focus on IS"

Regarding the two averted attacks, it was not "travellers" who were behind the
planning.

"This demonstrates the importance of working on many different fronts at the
same time. Right now, our focus and that of many other security services is very
much on IS and the problem of people who travel [to Syria and Iraq]. But not
only on that."

[Hansson] How good is your surveillance on violence-affirming extremists/Nazis
who go for example to Ukraine to fight?

"We follow the autonomous groups, white-power movements, and the like," said
Daniel Larsson. But our assessment is that they are not as big a threat today.
They do not have both the ability and the will to carry out attacks. The
situation might be different in a few years' time. We will not forget about
them."

[Hansson] SAPO and other countries' security services have been warning for a
long time about travellers who return and carry out terrorist attacks. So far,
there has been only one such known attack in Europe. Are we not exaggerating the
threat?

"It is true that so far we have seen only one attack. But if you look at the
history, we had many planned attacks by returnees from Afghanistan/Pakistan. So
far, we have not had the same problem with returnees from Syria. But there are
many more who go to Syria, and that makes the situation more complicated and
difficult to assess."

"Is there Something They Are Missing"

The threat posed by travelling Islamists has led security services all over
Europe to intensify their cooperation. They exchange information, and there are
also instances of working groups being formed, which are comprised of security
police representatives from several different countries who work together.

"Sweden has probably never had better preparedness," Kassman said.

But a moment later, he and Daniel Larsson admit that SAPO daily asks itself
whether it really knows what is happening. Is there something they are missing?

Source: Aftonbladet website, Stockholm, in Swedish 3 Sep 14

LOAD-DATE: September 6, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2014 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              441 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                   MailOnline

                     September 7, 2014 Sunday 10:49 PM GMT

IM operative claims terror outfit 'planned attack during festival season'

BYLINE: MAIL TODAY BUREAU

SECTION: INDIANEWS

LENGTH: 240 words


The Indian Mujahideen was planning a terror strike in the National Capital
Region during the upcoming festival season, according to the interrogators of
arrested IM operative Ajaz Sheikh.

Investigators are now trying to identify the people who Sheikh, 27, met in
Lucknow and Moradabad. The details of his stay in these cities are being looked
into.

The Delhi Police's Special Cell had arrested Sheikh from Saharanpur in Uttar
Pradesh on Friday night.

Sheikh had fled to Nepal after the arrest of Indian Mujahideen chief Yasin
Bhatkal last year and was hiding there since then, a police officer said.

"Sheikh was recently asked by Pakistan-based handlers Riyaz Bhatkal and Mohsin
Chowdhary to reach Delhi. He was specifically asked not to directly reach Delhi
to avoid being traced. He was instructed to reach Delhi via Lucknow, Moradabad
and Saharanpur. Ajaz was supposed to get further orders after reaching Delhi,"
the officer said.

Money through the hawala route was likely to be passed to the IM's sleeper cells
by Sheikh for funding a terror act in Delhi, the police suspect.

Sheikh had told his interrogators that his primary role was to provide funds to
the IM operatives. Yasin Bhatkal had himself received cash from Sheikh in the
past.

Sheikh also revealed that he had met Tehseen Akhtar alias Monu earlier this year
and gave him one lakh rupees on two occasions.

The Indian Mujahideen member also met Waqas twice and handed him money.

LOAD-DATE: September 7, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDM


                   Copyright 2014 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              442 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                      WENN Entertainment News Wire Service

                      September 7, 2014 Sunday 2:01 PM GMT

STEVE BUSCEMI RECONNECTED WITH OLD FIRE COMPANY AFTER 9/11 TERRORIST ATTACKS

SECTION: MOVIE

LENGTH: 309 words


Actor STEVE BUSCEMI was prompted to reconnect with his old New York firehouse
company and produce a documentary about firefighters after losing some of his
former colleagues in the 9/11 terrorist attacks.

The Boardwalk Empire star became a New York City Firefighter in 1980 and worked
for four years before leaving to pursue acting.

However, he returned to the job for a few days to help sift through the wreckage
following the double attack on the World Trade Center on September 11, 2001.

He says, "I was out like 15 years almost, but I knew on the day that it
happened, when the reports came in of how many people were lost and the
firefighters were lost... I went to my firehouse the next morning just to see if
I could get a report, because it was hard to get any information.

"I learned they had lost five (team members), one of them... I had worked with,
I found out there were other guys I had worked with, so I actually ended up
going down to the site for a few days with my old company in my old gear. I
looked sort of out of place because I had an old turnout coat and helmet, so
it's not that people recognised me there, they just thought like, 'Who's the old
guy?'"

The experience also inspired him to produce a documentary titled A Good Job:
Stories of the FDNY about the daily dangers firefighters face in their jobs.

He continues, "That reconnected me. I always say this, 'I hate the reason I got
reconnected, but I'm so grateful that's a part of my life again.'

"(The documentary is) firefighters just telling their stories and me talking to
them. Some of them I know and others I was just meeting for the first time and
it just covers what they do on a day-to-day basis. Of course it deals with 9/11,
but I didn't want 9/11 to shadow the whole job because they've been dealing with
awful stuff pre-9/11 and I wanted to hear those stories as well."

LOAD-DATE: September 7, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newswire


              Copyright 2014 World Entertainment News Network Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              443 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                 Express Online

                      September 8, 2014 Monday 6:53 PM GMT

'Barbaric' Islamic State terrorists have already attempted SIX attacks in Europe

BYLINE: Macer Hall

LENGTH: 629 words


JIHADISTS linked to the so-called Islamic State in Iraq and Syria have attempted
six terrorist attacks in Europe, David Cameron told MPs today.

Islamic State terrorists have already attempted to attack Europe [REUTERS]

The Prime Minister warned that the Islamist extremists needed to be "squeezed
out of existence" because they were already targetting Britain and other Western
countries.

And he urged MPs to be "in no doubt" that the insurgents wanted to bring
widespread carnage to the streets of the UK.

His warning came after he began a diplomatic blitz seeking to rally a new
international alliance against the Islamic Stage group with a phone call to
United Nations chief Ban Ki Moon.

Mr Cameron pointed out that the murder of four people at a Jewish Museum in
Brussels was suspected to have been carried out by a gunman with direct links to
the terrorist group.

But he gave no further details of other attempted atrocities, which are thought
to have been foiled by security services.

Speaking in the Commons about last week's Nato summit in South Wales today, the
Prime Minister told MPs: "The point I would make even today to the British
people is: be in no doubt about the threat that so-called Islamic State poses to
us.

"We have already seen something like six planned attacks in the countries of the
European Union from the so-called Islamic State, including that appalling attack
in the Brussels Jewish museum, where innocent people were killed.

"That flows directly from this organisation."

It emerged at the weekend that the French jihadist suspected of the murders in
Brussels had once acted as jailer to Western hostages of Islamic State in Syria.

Mehdi Nemmouche, 29, has been identified by French hostages, who were released
in April, as an ex-guard of Western captives including the US journalist James
Foley, who was beheaded last month.

David Cameron has warned that IS is a threat to Britain [GETTY]

Mr Cameron told MPs that leaders at the Nato summit in Newport had began to
discuss a broad-based strategy for tackling the jihadists.

"The alliance was clear about the scale of the threat from Islamist extremism
and we agreed we must use all the instruments at our disposal - humanitarian,
diplomatic, and military - to squeeze this barbaric terrorist organisation out
of existence.

"We should be clear about what needs to happen," he said.

Britain and other allies would continue to arm and train Kurdish forces to help
contain and confront the jihadi menace, Mr Cameron told MPs.

He insisted that the fight against the militants "must be led by the Iraqis
themselves", adding: "We will continue to encourage countries in the region to
support this effort and to engage allies across the world."

The Prime Minister said: "We will proceed carefully and methodically, drawing
together the partners we need, to implement a comprehensive plan."

He had discussed plans for "a broad-based international effort to confront" the
insurgency with the UN general secretary Mr Moon earlier today.

"I will be working on building that international support when I attend the
United Nations General Assembly later this month," he said.

MPs will get an opportunity to vote on joining possible US-led military strikes
should US President Barack Obama announce further moves this week, the Prime
Minister said.

The President is expected to set out his strategy for tackling the Islamic State
group in a statement on Wednesday.

Mr Cameron said he had always believed in the Commons having a vote on military
action unless an important British interest needs protecting urgently or there
is an immediate humanitarian catastrophe.

He said they were currently building a comprehensive strategy, which currently
includes delivering arms to Kurds fighting IS and training Kurdish Peshmerga
battalions.

LOAD-DATE: September 22, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDE


              Copyright 2014 Northern and Shell Media Publications
                              All Rights Reserved

                              444 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring South Asia - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                           September 9, 2014 Tuesday

Terrorist attack on Pakistani naval dockyard foiled, two militants dead

LENGTH: 317 words


Text of report by Pakistan daily The Express Tribune website on 9 September

Pakistan Navy on Monday said it had thwarted a terror attack on the Navy
Dockyard here Saturday [6 Sep] night, following Defence Day celebrations.

At least two terrorists were killed and four others were captured during a
six-hour long firefight with the intruders.

A navy spokesperson confirmed through a press statement in the late hours of
Monday that a group of miscreants had tried to penetrate the navy dockyard in
Karachi.

The spokesperson said following the attack - whose details were not disclosed
earlier as a matter of policy - Pakistan Navy security personnel and SSG
commandos responded valiantly and in the ensuing encounter - which continued for
six hours - killed two terrorists and apprehended four others.

"During the engagement with miscreants, one petty officer embraced Shahadat
while another officer and six sailors sustained injuries. All injured are out of
danger and being treated in the hospital," he said.

The naval spokesperson said the terrorists failed to inflict any material loss.
"The area was combed and cleared for normal activities the same day," he added.

He said subsequent to interrogation of the apprehended miscreants, immediate
raids were conducted by the intelligence agencies which led to arrest of other
collaborators and accomplices from different parts of the country. During these
raids, large quantity of arms and ammunition were also recovered, he added.

According to the spokesperson, the chief of the naval staff appreciated the
valour and alertness of all the personnel involved in the operation. He also
visited the injured personnel and individually appreciated and acknowledged
their bravery.

In addition to a formal inquiry, investigations by intelligence and other law
enforcement agencies are in progress, he added.

Source: Express Tribune website, Karachi, in English 09 Sep 14

LOAD-DATE: September 9, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2014 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              445 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring Middle East - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                           September 9, 2014 Tuesday

Five civilians killed, 22 others wounded in terrorist attacks Syrian capital

LENGTH: 191 words


Text of report in English by state-run Syrian news agency SANA website

Damascus, SANA -Three civilians were killed, including a little girl, and seven
others were injured in terrorist mortar attacks on Jaramana city in Damascus
Countryside.

A source at Police Command told SANA reporter that terrorists fired 4 mortar
shells on al-Homsi neighbourhood in Jaramana city, claiming the lives of three
civilians, among them a five-year-old girl, in addition to causing material
damage to a number of houses and cars.

In the same context, two civilians were killed and 15 others were killed when
terrorist fired several mortar shells on Kashkool neighbourhood in Damascus.

A source at the Police Command told SANA reporter that the terrorists fired four
mortar shells which landed near an underpass in Kashkool neighbourhood, killing
two civilians and injuring 15 others. A number of cars were damaged in the
terrorist attacks, the source added.

Earlier today, several mortar shells fell in al-Abbasiyyen neighbourhood and
al-Hamidiyeh causing material damage to a house and some cars.

Source: SANA news agency website, Damascus, in English 1420 gmt 9 Sep 14

LOAD-DATE: September 9, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2014 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              446 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring Middle East - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                           September 9, 2014 Tuesday

Israel security service says terror attacks in Jerusalem grows "exponentially"

LENGTH: 543 words


Text of report in English by Israeli settlers' Arutz 7 Radio website on 8
September

[Report by Ya'aqov Levi: "Shin Bet report: Terror attacks in Jerusalem jump
exponentially"]

Terror attacks in Jerusalem have grown exponentially over the past few months, a
Shin Bet (Israel Security Service) report Monday [8 September] said. According
to the statistics, three attempted terror attacks occurred in the city in March
2014 and in April, there were 7. In May and June, there were 22 attacks, while
in July and August, the Shin Bet reported that there were 152 attacks and
incidents of terrorism in the city.

Among the incidents that took place in recent weeks were sniper fire at the
Pisgat Ze'ev neighbourhood in northern Jerusalem, the torching of Jewish
vehicles, firebombs hurled at Jewish homes in Abu-Tor, adjacent to the Arab
neighbourhood of Jebel Mukaber, and numerous incidents of rock-throwing at light
rail cars.

On Sunday night, one of the more serious incidents took place, with Arab rioters
trying to blow up a gas station in the northeastern neighbourhood of French
Hill, adjacent to the Arab Shuafat neighbourhood. It was only by way of a
miracle that a massive explosion was averted, say Jerusalem Councilman Aryeh
King.

"Muslim terror is raising its head in French Hill," King told Arutz Sheva on
Monday. "A huge disaster was averted yesterday towards midnight, when no fewer
than 40 Arab terrorists broke in to the French Hill gas station and tried to set
off the fuel stores."

Sunday's attack came on the background of the shooting of an Arab rioter in
Jerusalem last week. The Arab was critically injured as police shot back at the
rock-throwing Arab, and was pronounced dead at Hadassah Hospital during the
weekend, sparking renewed rioting.

Surprisingly, the Shin Bet report said, there was much more violence in
Jerusalem during the course of Operation Protective Edge than there was in Judea
and Samaria. Police have tried to contain rioting incidents and to avoid
friction and large numbers of officers entered neighbourhoods where rioting was
rampant, the report said.

The incidents do not seem to be directed by an organized group, the report said,
and in fact most of them appear to be spontaneous. Although the data would seem
to indicate that a third intifada is brewing, the report said that this was not
the case. So far, more than 600 Palestinians have been arrested on charges
related to rioting, and 200 indictments handed down.

Many of those arrests stemmed from incidents in which Arabs threw rocks at light
rail trains, whose routes were planned specifically to go through Arab
neighbourhoods and give the residents equal access to Jerusalem's new and modern
urban transportation .

There were 90 rail injury incidents since the beginning of July, including the
hurling of Molotov cocktails and stones. More than a third of the trains were
damaged and shut down because of this. The incidents increased after the
Jerusalem bulldozer attack in early August, in which a tractor driven by an Arab
overturned a public bus, killing a father of five who was walking down the
street at the time. The bus was empty except for the driver and a policeman shot
and killed the terrorist.

Source: Arutz 7 Radio website in English 2313 gmt 8 Sep 14

LOAD-DATE: September 9, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2014 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              447 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                 Express Online

                     September 9, 2014 Tuesday 7:35 AM GMT

'Barbaric' Islamic State terrorists have already attempted SIX attacks in Europe

BYLINE: Macer Hall

LENGTH: 646 words


JIHADISTS linked to the so-called Islamic State in Iraq and Syria have attempted
six terrorist attacks in Europe, David Cameron told MPs today.

David Cameron says nobody in Britain should dismiss the threat of IS [GETTY]

The Prime Minister warned that the Islamist extremists needed to be "squeezed
out of existence" because they were already targetting Britain and other Western
countries.

And he urged MPs to be "in no doubt" that the insurgents wanted to bring
widespread carnage to the streets of the UK.

His warning came after he began a diplomatic blitz seeking to rally a new
international alliance against the Islamic Stage group with a phone call to
United Nations chief Ban Ki Moon.

Mr Cameron pointed out that the murder of four people at a Jewish Museum in
Brussels was suspected to have been carried out by a gunman with direct links to
the terrorist group.

But he gave no further details of other attempted atrocities, which are thought
to have been foiled by security services.

Speaking in the Commons about last week's Nato summit in South Wales today, the
Prime Minister told MPs: "The point I would make even today to the British
people is: be in no doubt about the threat that so-called Islamic State poses to
us.

"We have already seen something like six planned attacks in the countries of the
European Union from the so-called Islamic State, including that appalling attack
in the Brussel Jewish museum, where innocent people were killed.

Islamic State terrorists have already attempted to attack Europe [REUTERS]

"That flows directly from this organisation."

It emerged at the weekend that the French jihadist suspected of the murders in
Brussels had once acted as jailer to Western hostages of Islamic State in Syria.

Mehdi Nemmouche, 29, has been identified by French hostages, who were released
in April, as an ex-guard of Western captives including the US journalist James
Foley, who was beheaded last month.

Mr Cameron told MPs that leaders at the Nato summit in Newport had began to
discuss a broad-based strategy for tackling the jihadists.

"The alliance was clear about the scale of the threat from Islamist extremism
and we agreed we must use all the instruments at our disposal - humanitarian,
diplomatic, and military - to squeeze this barbaric terrorist organisation out
of existence.

"We should be clear about what needs to happen," he said.

Britain and other allies would continue to arm and train Kurdish forces to help
contain and confront the jihadi menace, Mr Cameron told MPs.

The Prime Minister has promised that action will be taken against IS militants
[GETTY]

He insisted that the fight against the militants "must be led by the Iraqis
themselves", adding: "We will continue to encourage countries in the region to
support this effort and to engage allies across the world."

The Prime Minister said: "We will proceed carefully and methodically, drawing
together the partners we need, to implement a comprehensive plan."

He had discussed plans for "a broad-based international effort to confront" the
insurgency with the UN general secretary Mr Moon earlier today.

"I will be working on building that international support when I attend the
United Nations General Assembly later this month," he said.

MPs will get an opportunity to vote on joining possible US-led military strikes
should US President Barack Obama announce further moves this week, the Prime
Minister said.

The President is expected to set out his strategy for tackling the Islamic State
group in a statement on Wednesday.

Mr Cameron said he had always believed in the Commons having a vote on military
action unless an important British interest needs protecting urgently or there
is an immediate humanitarian catastrophe.

He said they were currently building a comprehensive strategy, which currently
includes delivering arms to Kurds fighting IS and training Kurdish Peshmerga
battalions.

LOAD-DATE: September 9, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDE


              Copyright 2014 Northern and Shell Media Publications
                              All Rights Reserved

                              448 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                 Express Online

                     September 9, 2014 Tuesday 12:18 AM GMT

'Barbaric' Islamic State terrorists have already attempted SIX attacks in Europe

BYLINE: Macer Hall

LENGTH: 631 words


JIHADISTS linked to the so-called Islamic State in Iraq and Syria have attempted
six terrorist attacks in Europe, David Cameron told MPs today.

David Cameron says nobody in Britain should dismiss the threat of IS [GETTY]

The Prime Minister warned that the Islamist extremists needed to be "squeezed
out of existence" because they were already targetting Britain and other Western
countries.

And he urged MPs to be "in no doubt" that the insurgents wanted to bring
widespread carnage to the streets of the UK.

His warning came after he began a diplomatic blitz seeking to rally a new
international alliance against the Islamic Stage group with a phone call to
United Nations chief Ban Ki Moon.

Mr Cameron pointed out that the murder of four people at a Jewish Museum in
Brussels was suspected to have been carried out by a gunman with direct links to
the terrorist group.

But he gave no further details of other attempted atrocities, which are thought
to have been foiled by security services.

Speaking in the Commons about last week's Nato summit in South Wales today, the
Prime Minister told MPs: "The point I would make even today to the British
people is: be in no doubt about the threat that so-called Islamic State poses to
us.

"We have already seen something like six planned attacks in the countries of the
European Union from the so-called Islamic State, including that appalling attack
in the Brussels Jewish museum, where innocent people were killed.

"That flows directly from this organisation."

It emerged at the weekend that the French jihadist suspected of the murders in
Brussels had once acted as jailer to Western hostages of Islamic State in Syria.

Mehdi Nemmouche, 29, has been identified by French hostages, who were released
in April, as an ex-guard of Western captives including the US journalist James
Foley, who was beheaded last month.

Islamic State terrorists have already attempted to attack Europe [REUTERS]

Mr Cameron told MPs that leaders at the Nato summit in Newport had began to
discuss a broad-based strategy for tackling the jihadists.

"The alliance was clear about the scale of the threat from Islamist extremism
and we agreed we must use all the instruments at our disposal - humanitarian,
diplomatic, and military - to squeeze this barbaric terrorist organisation out
of existence.

"We should be clear about what needs to happen," he said.

Britain and other allies would continue to arm and train Kurdish forces to help
contain and confront the jihadi menace, Mr Cameron told MPs.

He insisted that the fight against the militants "must be led by the Iraqis
themselves", adding: "We will continue to encourage countries in the region to
support this effort and to engage allies across the world."

The Prime Minister said: "We will proceed carefully and methodically, drawing
together the partners we need, to implement a comprehensive plan."

He had discussed plans for "a broad-based international effort to confront" the
insurgency with the UN general secretary Mr Moon earlier today.

"I will be working on building that international support when I attend the
United Nations General Assembly later this month," he said.

MPs will get an opportunity to vote on joining possible US-led military strikes
should US President Barack Obama announce further moves this week, the Prime
Minister said.

The President is expected to set out his strategy for tackling the Islamic State
group in a statement on Wednesday.

Mr Cameron said he had always believed in the Commons having a vote on military
action unless an important British interest needs protecting urgently or there
is an immediate humanitarian catastrophe.

He said they were currently building a comprehensive strategy, which currently
includes delivering arms to Kurds fighting IS and training Kurdish Peshmerga
battalions.

LOAD-DATE: September 9, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDE


              Copyright 2014 Northern and Shell Media Publications
                              All Rights Reserved

                              449 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring Middle East - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                          September 10, 2014 Wednesday

Iran, Pakistan agree on chasing "terrorists" after failed border attack

LENGTH: 241 words


Text of report in English by website of Iranian conservative Tasnim news agency

Tehran, 10 September: A spokesman of the Islamic Revolution Guards Corps said on
Wednesday [10 September] that Iran and Pakistan have reached an agreement to
further chase terrorist groups after the IRGC foiled an attack on an Iranian
outpost in Saravan, near Pakistani border.

"We have reached agreement with Pakistan. It has been agreed that they
(Pakistanis) act on chasing them (terrorists)," Head of the IRGC Public
Relations Department General Ramezan Sharif said Wednesday.

"And" he added "we do not hesitate to assist them (Pakistanis) if asked."

He emphasized that the agreement allows the two countries' border guards to
cross the shared borders and chase terrorist groups but within a limited range
and more coordination will be needed for further action.

The IRGC official also commented on the recent terrorist attack on a border
outpost in Saravan, Iran's southeastern province of Sistan-Baluchestan near
border with Pakistan, and said one of the IRGC forces was martyred and two Basij
forces were injured in the attack.

The raid, which took place in the early hours of Tuesday morning, was jointly
foiled by forces from IRGC Ground Force's Quds Base and local Basij volunteers.

General Sharif said that heavy losses were inflicted upon the terrorists, who
were forced to flee to Pakistan.

Source: Tasnim news agency website, Tehran, in English 1435 gmt 10 Sep 14

LOAD-DATE: September 10, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2014 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              450 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                          Future News - Media Planner

                          September 10, 2014 Wednesday

U.S. continues National Emergency with respect to terrorist attacks

SECTION: NEWS; Highlight; US Top Stories

LENGTH: 68 words


U.S. extends National Emergency with respect to 9/11 terrorist attacks - on the
World Trade Center, the Pentagon, and aboard United Airlines Flight 93 - and the
continuing and immediate threat of further attacks for another year. Order,
declared on 14 Sep 2001, and the powers and authorities adopted to deal with it
continued 'because the threat continues'

Event Start Date: 2014-09-14

Event End Date: 2014-09-14

LOAD-DATE: September 10, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                             Copyright 2014 Precise
                              All Rights Reserved

                              451 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                               Independent.co.uk

                   September 10, 2014 Wednesday 10:24 AM GMT

Islamic State: Isis fanatics threaten terrorist attacks on Twitter employees for
shutting accounts down;
Extremists said Twitter was waging 'vicious war' by moderating messages

BYLINE: Lizzie Dearden

SECTION: FRONTPAGE

LENGTH: 392 words


Islamic State (Isis) fanatics have threatened to kill Twitter employees if they
continue to shut down their accounts and stop them spreading propaganda.

The website is engaged in a constant battle to suspend accounts spouting hate
speech, extremism and posting gory pictures and videos of executions in Iraq and
Syria.

Tweeting under the handle @dawlamoon, an Isis-affiliated group claiming to be Al
Nusra Al Maqdisia (The Supporters of Jerusalem) called on "lone wolf" terrorists
to target the Twitter headquarters in San Francisco.

One message, translated by Vocativ, said: "#The_Concept_of_Lone_Wolf_Attacks
Twitter management should know that if they do not stop their campaign in the
virtual world, we will the bring the war to them in the real world on the
ground."

Another read: "Every Twitter employee in San Francisco in the United States
should bear in mind and watch over himself because on his doorstep there might
be a lone wolf assassin waiting."

The account has since been suspended, no doubt to @dawlamoon's fury.

Writing on the JustPaste.it forum, which is frequently used by Isis-affiliated
groups, fanatics have shared tips on how to avoid Twitter censorship by slightly
changing usernames and opening new accounts.

Calling Twitter's moderation a "vicious war", the writer claimed the closed
accounts "found the curriculum of correct Islamic belief" and shows Muslims
"what awaits them in the Islamic State".

Many of the British men and women who have travelled to Syria to join Isis are
known to use Twitter as a platform for attempts to encourage fellow UK Muslims
to join them.

Abdel-Majed Abdel Bary, 24, who left his rap career in London to fight with Isis
in Syria, posted a picture of himself holding a severed head with the caption:
"Chillin' with my homie or what's left of him."

In pictures: The rise of Isis

A woman believed to be from London called Khadijah Dare said she wanted to be
the first British woman to behead a Westerner and another woman, tweeting as
@UmmKhattab__ threatened to decapitate David Cameron.

A spokesperson for Twitter said its security team was investigating the
"veracity of the threats" with authorities in the US.

Read more: British teenage jihadists David Cameron beheadedIsis fighter from
London posts picture with severed head on TwitterComment: Isis has used social
media to wreak havoc in Iraq and Syria

LOAD-DATE: September 10, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBI


           Copyright 2014 Independent Digital News and Media Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              452 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                  M2 PressWIRE

                          September 10, 2014 Wednesday

Somalia: UN envoy condemns latest terrorist attacks

LENGTH: 200 words


September 9, 2014

Calling for reconciliation and an end to violence in Somalia, the top United
Nations official condemned the terrorist attacks in several locations in country
yesterday that resulted in the death and injury of many innocent civilians.



"I am appalled to learn of the murder of many innocent civilians killed in
terrorist attacks yesterday. Yet again the proponents of violence show that they
have nothing to offer but continued suffering for the Somali people," said
Representative of the Secretary-General for Somalia, Nicholas Kay.

I a press statement, he called on all to co-operate fully with the authorities
as they investigate "these heinous crimes" to ensure that the perpetrators are
brought to justice swiftly.

"We remain resolute in our support for the Somali people as they work to realise
their hope for a peaceful and stable future. This should be a time for
reconciliation in the interests of all Somali people and I echo the Federal
Government's recent call for those prepared to renounce violence and join the
political process," he added.

Mr. Kay extended his sincere condolences to the families and friends of all
those who have suffered as a result of the attacks.

LOAD-DATE: September 10, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newswire

JOURNAL-CODE: M2PW


                      Copyright 2014 Normans Media Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              453 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                   MailOnline

                    September 10, 2014 Wednesday 9:07 PM GMT

Revealed: State Department had specific warnings about weak Benghazi security
nearly THREE MONTHS before deadly 2012 terror attack

BYLINE: DAVID MARTOSKO, US POLITICAL EDITOR FOR MAILONLINE

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 921 words



     ·    Contractor providing security to diplomatic facility in Libya told
          State that terrified security guards were fleeing their posts
     ·    Watchdog group that uncovered the evidence says the compound was a
          'sitting duck' for months
     ·    Email to the State Department warned that an earlier bomb which blew a
          hole in the outer perimeter fence 'promoted a fear factor' that drove
          armed men to refuse night shifts
     ·    State, then run by Hillary Clinton, rebuffed several requests for
          additional security at the outpost
     ·    Four Americans including Ambassador Chris Stevens died when
          al-Qaeda-linked jihadis laid waste to the compound on Sept. 11, 2012


Security contractors warned Hillary Clinton's U.S. State Department nearly three
months before a deadly 2012 terror attack on its diplomatic outpost in Benghazi,
Libya that guards were quitting at an alarming rate, leaving the facility
vulnerable to assault.

Judicial Watch, a center-right watchdog group, said Tuesday that it obtained
damning emails as part of a Freedom Of Information Act lawsuit against the State
Department.

They paint a picture of frantic warnings about armed security personnel not
showing up to work and refusing to work night shifts because they were afraid of
the Islamist militia that ultimately killed America's ambassador to Libya and
three other Americans as they laid waste to the compound.

The documents refer repeatedly to 'emergency shift' workers and show 8-hour
windows in overnight security rotations when few if any guards were on patrol.

SCROLL DOWN FOR VIDEO

Warnings  began on June 30, 2012 with a report from Blue Mountain Libya, the
contractor tasked with protecting the Benghazi outpost. The company told State
Department Contract Specialist Neal Kern security guards were fleeing and
leaving the Benghazi Mission vulnerable.

'Due to the amount of local guard force members leaving out of fear of their
safety,' the company reported, 'and the long process to security check
individuals, it makes it very difficult to quickly react to a large drop in
staff in quick succession as has been occurring with all the incidents.'

Chief among those 'incidents' was the June 5 bombing of the compound's outer
perimeter wall.

House Oversight and Government Reform Committee chairman Rep.  Darrell Issa, a
California Republican, later wrote to then-Secretary Clinton that the attack
left a hole described by locals as 'big enough for forty men to go through.'

Blue Mountain's reports to the State Department included a note that six days
later a guard 'did not attend' his night shift 'and gave no prior warning of
absence.'

'It is believed that the explosive device set off on the compound perimeter wall
had a lasting effect on certain members of the staff,' the report said; 'this
promoted a fear factor when it came to working the nightshift.'

Three days later the company warned the State Department about 'last minute
resignations of... guard staff' that left the mission's security even weaker.

The newly uncovered documents 'show that the U.S. Special Mission at Benghazi
was a sitting duck and that the State Department's local militia "security"
feared for their own safety and wouldn't even show up to provide necessary
protection,' Judicial Watch president Tom Fitton said in a statement Wednesday.

'All security indicators were flashing red and, perhaps, with a show of strength
to secure the Benghazi mission, U.S. Ambassador J. Christopher Stevens, Sean
Smith, Glen Doherty and Tyrone Woods might be alive today.'

Problems with protecting the compound were apparent in reports filed about
incidents going back as far as April 2012.

One of Blue Mountain's guard commanders was fired on April 18 after he got into
a fight with a soldier tasked to a Quick Reaction Force in Benghazi. Another
guard 'failed to turn up for duty' without warning on April 22.

That left the entire compound in the hands of four men during the perilous hours
between midnight and 8:00 a.m.

Assistant Secretary of State for European and Eurasian Affairs Victoria Nuland,
then the State Department's chief spokesperson, claimed three days after the
Sept. 11, 2012 attack that no outside contractors had been hired to provide
security for the Benghazi mission.

She was forced to retract that statement a week later, conceding the Blue
Mountain Group was contracted to keep the facility and its personnel safe.

Judicial Watch said Wednesday that the Obama administration has not turned over
any documents showing the state of security in Benghazi during the last critical
weeks before the attack.

The group announced three new federal lawsuits demanding those records, and
others that relate to the State Department's role in crafting a false narrative
about the attack's causes.

Numerous Obama administration officials, including the president himself, pinned
early blame on a clumsily produced online video that lampooned the Muslim
prophet Muhammad.

While simultaneous protests in Egypt and elsewhere were in part inspired by
outrage over the video, no evidence has emerged to suggest that the militants
who attacked in Benghazi were acting as part of a spontaneous mob.

Instead, investigations have consistently shown that the armed assault was a
carefully planned and expertly executed military mission, complete with
precision mortars that plunged the compound into chaos.

Mrs. Clinton, now the Democrats' front-runner in the 2016 presidential contest,
still faces stern questions from members of Congress and the press about her
role in the security failures and the attack's PR-nightmare aftermath.

LOAD-DATE: September 10, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDM


                   Copyright 2014 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              454 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                   MailOnline

                    September 10, 2014 Wednesday 4:44 PM GMT

Radical Islamist who supports sharia law banned from speaking at Australian
university on the anniversary of September 11 terror attacks

BYLINE: DANIEL MILLS FOR DAILY MAIL AUSTRALIA

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 601 words


Radical Islamist who supports sharia law banned from speaking at Australian
university on the anniversary of September 11 terror attacks


     ·    Uthman Badar has been banned from speaking at non-registered Muslim
          event at Sydney University
     ·    The two-hour Q&A was being organised by a student association group
     ·    The Vice Chancellor cancelled it when he was alerted it coincided with
          September 11 anniversary
     ·    Mr Badar was previously banned from speaking at the Festival Of
          Dangerous Ideas at the Sydney Opera House


An outspoken Australian Islamist has been banned from appearing at a Sydney
University event on the anniversary of the September 11 terror attacks.

Uthman Badar - the spokesperson for the Australian-based Islamsit group Hizb
ut-Tahrir - was due to speak at the University of Sydney on Thursday but in an
11th hour decision has been banned from appearing.

Vice Chancellor Michael Spence cancelled the non-registered Q&A event declaring
he was unaware that a Muslim student's association group had organised it.

Mr Badar was advertised to appear at the Islamic Awareness Week, run by the
Sydney University Muslim Students' Association, The Daily Telegraph reported.

In a Facebook post he said he would be appearing as a member of an open 'QnA
panel, along with Shaykh Wesam Charkawi, entitled 'Grill a Muslim' tomorrow.'

The two-hour event was billed as an opportunity for people to 'ask anything and
everything.'

A spokeswoman for Sydney University said the it was not registered and security
did not know about it.

The ban comes on the same day Mr Badar made damming comments regarding
Australia's hard-line stance on terrorism threats.

He said that it if an attack 'does occur on Australian soil' the Government
would be to blame because of its 'persisent unjust targeting of muslims.'

The Australian reported that the Government is preparing to ramp up its terror
security alert from medium to high for the first time, to ward off the threat of
terror attacks.

'If an attack does occur on Australian soil...government policy of the last
decade will be responsible for its persistent agression and imposition on the
Muslim world and persistent unjust targeting of Muslims locally.'

Mr Badar said the government can not 'persistently provoke and then expect to
control the reaction.'

Mr Badar's ban from Sydney University comes two months after he was dropped from
the Festival of Dangerous Ideas event at the Sydney Opera House in August.

Mr Badar was the subject of public backlash earlier this year when he was
scheduled to give a talk entitled 'Honour Killings are Morally Justified' at
Sydney's Festival of Dangerous Ideas.

He and the festival made it clear they don't support honour killings.

In a statement on its Facebook The Opera House said at the time: 'The Festival
of Dangerous Ideas is intended to be a provocation to thought and discussion,
rather than simply a provocation'.

'It is always a matter of balance and judgement, and in this case a line has
been crossed... It is clear from the public reaction that the title has given
the wrong impression of what Mr Badar intended to discuss.

'Neither Mr Badar, (festival organisers) the St James Ethics Centre, nor Sydney
Opera House in any way advocates honour killings or condones any form of
violence against women.'

Mr Badar's defence came after it  revealed the Prime Minister's plan to stop
extremists fighting in the Middle East from returning to Australia was in legal
limbo.

Mr Badar said the backlash against his slated Festival of Dangerous Ideas talk
said more about bigotry in Australia than it did about him.

LOAD-DATE: September 10, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDM


                   Copyright 2014 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              455 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                   MailOnline

                    September 10, 2014 Wednesday 4:13 PM GMT

Harlined Australian Islamist banned from speaking at top university on the
anniversary of September 11 terror attacks

BYLINE: DANIEL MILLS FOR DAILY MAIL AUSTRALIA

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 478 words


Harlined Australian Islamist banned from speaking at top university on the
anniversary of September 11 terror attacks


     ·    Uthman Badar has been banned from speaking at non-registered muslim
          event at Sydney University
     ·    The two-hour Q&A was being organised by a student association group
     ·    The Vice Chancellor cancelled it when he was alerted it coincided with
          September 11 anniversary
     ·    Mr Badar was previously banned from speaking at the Festival Of
          Dangerous Ideas at the Sydney Opera House


An outspoken Australian Islamist has been banned from appearing at a Sydney
University event on the anniversary of the September 11 terror attacks.

Uthman Badar - the spokesperson for the Australian-based Islamsit group Hizb
ut-Tahrir - was due to speak at the University of Sydney on Thursday but in an
11th hour decision has been banned from appearing.

Vice Chancellor Michael Spence cancelled the non-registered Q&A event declaring
he was unaware that a muslim student's association group had organised it.

Badar was advertised to appear at the Islamic Awareness Week, run by the Sydney
University Muslim Students' Association.

In a Facebook post he said he would be appearing as a member of an open 'QnA
panel, along with Shaykh Wesam Charkawi, entitled 'Grill a Muslim' tomorrow.'

The two-hour event was billed as an opportunity for people to 'ask anything and
everything.'

A spokeswoman for the university said the it was not registered and security did
not know about it.

The event was to coincide with Islamic Awareness Week, and it is the second
public appearance Badar has been banned from appearing at after he was dropped
from the Festival of Dangerous Ideas event at the Sydney Opera House in August.

Mr Badar was the subject of public backlash earlier this year when he was
scheduled to give a talk entitled 'Honour Killings are Morally Justified' at
Sydney's Festival of Dangerous Ideas.

He and the festival made it clear they don't support honour killings.

In a statement on its Facebook The Opera House said at the time: 'The Festival
of Dangerous Ideas is intended to be a provocation to thought and discussion,
rather than simply a provocation'.

'It is always a matter of balance and judgement, and in this case a line has
been crossed... It is clear from the public reaction that the title has given
the wrong impression of what Mr Badar intended to discuss.

'Neither Mr Badar, (festival organisers) the St James Ethics Centre, nor Sydney
Opera House in any way advocates honour killings or condones any form of
violence against women.'

Mr Badar's defence comes as it was revealed the Prime Minister's plan to stop
extremists fighting in the Middle East from returning to Australia was in legal
limbo.

Mr Badar said the backlash against his slated Festival of Dangerous Ideas talk
said more about bigotry in Australia than it did about him.

LOAD-DATE: September 10, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDM


                   Copyright 2014 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              456 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring Middle East - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                          September 11, 2014 Thursday

Yemen army repels attack by "terrorists" in southeast region

LENGTH: 100 words


Text of report in English by state-run Yemeni news agency Saba website

Hadramawt, 10 September - Army has repelled a terrorist attack in Qatan district
in the southeast governorate of Hadramawt, killing ten of the attackers.

A suicide car bombing targeted early on Tuesday a military checkpoint at Ser
Wadi area, but the soldiers managed to destroy the car before reaching its
target, a military official said.

After the car explosion, clashes erupted leading to the death of two soldiers
and 10 terrorists, the official added.

Source: Yemen News Agency Saba website, Sanaa, in English 1810 gmt 10 Sep 14

LOAD-DATE: September 11, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2014 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              457 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                       BBC Monitoring Europe - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                          September 11, 2014 Thursday

Spanish prosecutions say threat of jihadist terror attack remains high

LENGTH: 245 words


Text of report by Spanish newspaper ABC website, on 11 September

[Report by N.V. and S.M.: "Prosecution Service Warns of 'High' Level of Jihadist
Threat in Spain"]

[The translation below is machine based with limited editorial intervention]

The Spanish prosecution service warned in its annual report that the jihadist
threat in Spain remained at a "high level." It also said that our country played
a key role in the recruitment of terrorists.

In the report, the prosecution service said that there were "logistical
structures" linked to terrorist organizations such as Jabhat al-Nusra, AQIM
[Al-Qa'idah in the Islamic Maghreb], or MOJWA [Movement for Oneness and Jihad in
West Africa] that played a "key role" in the recruitment of jihadists and their
subsequent transfer to Mali and Syria.

Although there had been no terrorist incidents in Spain, the prosecution service
concluded that citizens and Spanish interests were "targets of international
terrorism based on Islamist ideology." It also pointed to the role of the
Internet in the spread of radicalism and the existence of "radical media
producers" who had helped to radicalize individuals among the Muslim community
in Spain.

The jihadist threat was not only focused on national territory, but also posed a
danger to Spaniards abroad. It also highlighted the recent kidnappings of
Spanish citizens in different parts of Africa or in countries such as Syria.

Source: ABC website, Madrid, in Spanish 0000 gmt 11 Sep 14

LOAD-DATE: September 11, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2014 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              458 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring Middle East - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                          September 11, 2014 Thursday

One person killed, 20 wounded during "terrorist" attacks in Syria's Damascus

LENGTH: 162 words


Text of report in English by state-run Syrian news agency SANA website

Damascus - A citizen was killed Wednesday [10 September] and 20 others were
wounded in terrorist attacks with mortars on many areas of Damascus.

A police source told SANA that terrorists launched mortar shells on the roof of
al-Tawfik Hospital in Abu Roumaneh, Al-Sibki park, al-Sha'alan and the 29th of
May street.

The source added that material damages were reported among the citizens' houses,
cars and shops.

Earlier, the terrorists launched mortar shells that landed in Harasta suburb in
Damascus Countryside, causing material damage to a number of houses, shops and
cars, but no human causalities were reported.

A source at Damascus Countryside Police Command told SANA that six mortar rounds
fell near the Bakery, al-Alali Centre, Al-Burjeat building and in the
surrounding of Harasta roundabout, causing material damage only.

Source: SANA news agency website, Damascus, in English 1900 gmt 10 Sep 14

LOAD-DATE: September 11, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2014 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              459 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                          Future News - Media Planner

                          September 11, 2014 Thursday

13th anniversary of 9/11 terrorist attacks

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 178 words


13th anniversary of 9/11 terrorist attacks on America, in which 2,983 people
died when militants linked to al-Qaida hijacked four planes, crashing two into
the World Trade Center in New York and one into the Pentagon, before the fourth
was brought down in a field near Shanksville, Pennsylvania.
 Commemoration ceremony at New York's National September 11 Memorial and Museum
begins with national moment of silence held at 08:46 EDT, before the names of
victims are read out by family members, with breaks for moments of silence at
times the second plane struck South Tower (09:03), Flight 77 struck the Pentagon
(09:37), the fall of South Tower (09:59), Flight 93 crashing (10:03), and the
fall of North Tower (10:28).
 The 9/11 Memorial plaza in New York opens to the public from 18:00 to midnight,
allowing for a special viewing of the Tribute in Light.
 U.S. President Barack Obama and First Lady Michelle Obama observe a moment of
silence on the White House South Lawn before attending a ceremony at the
Pentagon

Event Start Date: 2014-09-11

Event End Date: 2014-09-11

LOAD-DATE: September 11, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                             Copyright 2014 Precise
                              All Rights Reserved

                              460 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                  mirror.co.uk

                    September 11, 2014 Thursday 8:05 PM GMT

Barack Obama leads 9/11 tribute to victims on 13th anniversary of terror attacks
;
The president was joined by First Lady Michelle and Vice President Joe Biden for
a moment of silence to remember the 2,983 who lost their lives

BYLINE: By Greg Livsey

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 427 words


President Barack Obama led America as the nation marked the 13th anniversary of
the 9/11 terror attacks.

The names of all the 2,983 who perished on September 11, 2001, in the World
Trade Centre, the Pentagon, aboard Flight 93, and in the 1993 WTC bombing, were
read out at the New York's Memorial plaza.

In Washington, the president was joined by First Lady Michelle and Vice
President Joe Biden for a moment of silence with 300 staff outside the White
House.

Later, in a service at the Pentagon, Mr Obama said: "It has now been 13 years,
13 years since the peace of an American morning was broken, 13 years since
nearly 3,000 beautiful lives were taken from us.

"Thirteen years of moments they would have shared with us. Thirteen years of
memories they would have made."

He added: "America endures in the tenacity of our survivors. After grievous
wounds, we learn to walk again and stand again. After terrible burns, you smiled
once more.

"For you, for our nation, these have been difficult years, but by your presence
here today in the lives of service that you have led, you embody the truth that,
no matter what comes our way, America will always come out stronger.

"America endures in that perennial optimism that defines us as a people.
Beginning tomorrow there will be teenagers, young adults, who were born after
9/11. It's remarkable. And while these young Americans did not know the horrors
of that day, their lives have been shaped by all the days since.

"A time that has brought us pain, but also taught us endurance and strength, a
time of rebuilding, of resilience, and of renewal.

"What gives us hope, what gives me hope, it is that these young Americans will
shape all the days to come. Thirteen years after small and hateful minds
conspired to break us, America stands tall and America stands proud. And guided
by the values that sustain us, we will only grow stronger."

In New York, two blue columns of light representing the Twin Towers of The World
Trade Centre illuminated the skies over Lower Manhattan in a vivid tribute to
those killed.

Some family members carried large photos of their loved ones as they stood
sombrely at the fountains which now mark where the loved ones died.

The new 9/11 museum was open for the first time on an anniversary of the attack.
The memorial stands in the shadow of the new 1 World Trade Centre, the tallest
skyscraper in the Western hemisphere, which is set to open later this year.

Although construction has been plagued by delays, two of the new skyscrapers
built around the site of the fallen twin towers are now open.

LOAD-DATE: September 11, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDMI


                      Copyright 2014 Trinity Mirror, Plc.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              461 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring Middle East - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                           September 12, 2014 Friday

One injured in "terrorist mortar attack" in Damascus Countryside

LENGTH: 94 words


Text of report in English by state-run Syrian news agency SANA website

Damascus Countryside, (SANA) A new terrorist mortar attack in a residential
neighbourhood in Damascus Countryside left a civilian injured, in addition to
causing material damage.

A police command source told SANA that five mortar shells fired by terrorists
landed in Kashkoul neighbourhood in the countryside of Damascus, injuring a
citizen.

The source said the attack also caused material damage to a number of shops and
cars.

Source: SANA news agency website, Damascus, in English 1420 gmt 11 Sep 14

LOAD-DATE: September 12, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2014 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              462 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring Middle East - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                           September 12, 2014 Friday

Twelve injured in Syria "terrorist mortar attacks"

LENGTH: 206 words


Text of report in English by state-run Syrian news agency SANA website

Provinces, SANA -Twelve civilians were injured in a terrorist attack with mortar
shells on al-Dweil'a neighbourhood in Damascus on Friday.

A source at the Police Command told SANA reporter that the terrorists fired a
mortar round on a house behind Omar Bin al-Khattab Mosque in al-Dweil'a
neighbourhood, wounding 12 civilians and causing huge material damage to the
house.

On Thursday, two civilians were killed and 20 others were injured, including
women and children, in terrorist mortar attacks on al-Salihiye neighbourhood in
Damascus.

Terrorist attacks with 20 mortar shells injure 4 children in Idleb

In a relevant context, terrorists fired a number of mortar shells on residential
compounds for teachers in the city of Idleb, leaving 4 children injured.

A source at the Police Command in the northern province told SANA that 20 mortar
shells landed in the southeastern side of the city, injuring 4 children and
causing material damage to citizens' houses and properties.

The source noted that the injured citizens were taken to the National Hospital
of Idleb to receive the necessary treatment.

Source: SANA news agency website, Damascus, in English 1420 gmt 12 Sep 14

LOAD-DATE: September 12, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2014 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              463 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                          China Daily European Edition

                           September 12, 2014 Friday

China court sentences 3 to death for Kunming terrorist attack

SECTION: SOCIETY

LENGTH: 431 words


BEIJING -- A Chinese court on Friday sentenced three men to death and one woman
to life in prison for their involvement in a terrorist attack in which 31 were
killed at a railway station in Kunming earlier this year.

Iskandar Ehet, Turgun Tohtunyaz and Hasayn Muhammad were sentenced by the
Kunming Municipal Intermediate People's Court to death for leading a terrorist
organization and intentional homicide, Xinhua learned from the Supreme People's
Court (SPC).

A fourth suspect, Patigul Tohti, has been sentenced to life for participating in
the attack as well as intentional homicide.

The Kunming court said Patigul Tohti's criminal acts were extremely severe, but
since she was pregnant when she was detained, the death penalty cannot be
applied to her according to law.

The court ruled that Iskandar Ehet and Hasayn Muhammad were guilty of recruiting
other people to join a terrorist group, while Turgun Tohtunyaz financed
terrorist activities.

All three men were found guilty of organizing and plotting violent and terrorist
attacks in places crowded with people, the court ruled.

Investigators found that the terrorist organization's members, eight of whom
plotted and carried out the Kunming train station attack, had clear roles and
responsibilities. Since December 2013, they had been preparing to conduct
terrorist activities.

Iskandar Ehet was found to have instilled religious extremism in members and
taught them killing methods through audio and video materials demonstrating
training methods and how to make explosive devices.

Turgun Tohtunyaz helped fund their terrorist activities several times while
Hasayn Muhammad recruited several other members.

In late February, the group plotted in Gejiu, another city in Yunnan, to launch
a knife attack in a crowded train station in Kunming. They bought a dozen
machetes and daggers and made jihad banners bearing extremist content.

However, two days before the attack, three members of the group, including
Iskandar Ehet, were arrested on suspicion of planning to illegally cross the
Chinese border to a neighboring country.

After failing to establish contact with Iskandar on March 1, the remaining five
set off from Gejiu in a rented car and carried out their attack as originally
planned.

Four of them were shot dead on the spot by the police while Patigul Tohti was
captured after she was injured by gunshot. The attack caused 31 civilian deaths
and injured another 141.

Investigators have found another five suspects linked to the group and they will
be tried in a different case.

Public trial of the four began on Friday morning.


LOAD-DATE: September 12, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2014 China Daily Information Co
                              All Rights Reserved

                              464 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                                  Daily Mirror

                           September 12, 2014 Friday
                                   Edition 1;
                                Northern Ireland

'Sex slavery' rap woman left in terror over attacks

BYLINE: MICHAEL McHUGH

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 27

LENGTH: 170 words


A MUM accused of sexually abusing a captive woman has been left in "terror"
after attacks on her home, it was claimed yesterday.

Caroline Bernadette Baker, 52, and her 58-yearold husband Keith Baker face
assault, rape and false imprisonment charges between 2004 and 2012.

Earlier this year windows were broken at Mrs Baker's home.

Her barrister said the attacks could escalate into arson if her new address
became known.

He added: "The court will understand the psychological terror caused to the
occupants where they don't really know what is coming next."

The alleged victim, who has a mental disorder, is to be assessed this month.

Mrs Baker's lawyer said the attacks on her former home continued from February
when the case had become publicly known, beginning as graffiti and escalating
into window breaking until the defendant left the property in May.

At Craigavon Crown Court, Co Armagh, Judge Patrick Lynch said cases such as this
had escalated into petrol bombings in the past.

The case will be discussed again in November.

LOAD-DATE: September 12, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: ACCUSED Keith Baker

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DMR


                            Copyright 2014 MGN Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              465 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                            i-Independent Print Ltd

                               September 12, 2014
                                 First Edition

Martin joins Mumbai terror attack thriller;
SCREENTALK Stuart Kemp of The Hollywood Reporter

BYLINE: Stuart Kemp

SECTION: FEATURES; Pg. 35

LENGTH: 37 words


Stacy Martin (left), who appeared in Nymphomaniac, will star in Taj Mahal, a
thriller set during the 2008 terrorist attacks in Mumbai. Nicolas Saada
(Sleepless Night) writes and directs the film, which also features Gina McKee.

LOAD-DATE: September 11, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: III


                    Copyright 2014 Independent Print Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              466 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                 The Irish News

                           September 12, 2014 Friday

Sexual offences accused 'in terror' after attacks on home

SECTION: Pg. 11

LENGTH: 247 words


A woman accused of sexual offences against a captive mentally disabled woman has
been left in "psychological terror" because of attacks on her home, her lawyer
told a court.

Caroline Bernadette Baker (52) and her husband Keith Baker (58) face a series of
sex and false imprisonment charges over eight years between 2004 and 2012,
according to documents before Craigavon Crown Court.

Earlier this year windows were broken at Mrs Baker's home. Her barrister Martin
O'Rourke said the attacks could escalate into arson if her new address became
known.

The alleged victim, who is not their daughter, is to undergo psychological
assessment by an expert later this month.

According to Northern Ireland Courts and Tribunals Service documents, the couple
face charges including false imprisonment, sexual activity involving
penetration, inciting a person with a mental disorder to a sex act, indecent
assault and rape or aiding and abetting rape.

Mrs Baker's lawyer said the attacks on her former home continued from February
this year when the case had become publicly known, beginning as graffiti and
escalating into window breaking, until the defendant left the property in May.

He added the intention was to force her from the area.

The accused moved from the address last spring and there have been no more
attacks at her new property, however she has been given notice to quit and is
due to change homes again at the end of this month, her lawyer said.

The case will be discussed again in November.

LOAD-DATE: September 12, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2014 The Irish News Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              467 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                   Metro (UK)

                           September 12, 2014 Friday
                                   Edition 1;
                                    Scotland

13 years after 9/11, we are standing tall;
OBAMA'S MESSAGE ON ANNIVERSARY OF TERROR ATTACKS

BYLINE: AIDAN RADNEDGE

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 248 words


BARACK OBAMA yesterday honoured the victims of the 9/11 attacks - 13 years after
four hijacked planes plunged the United States into a lengthy war against
terrorism.

Speaking at the Pentagon, where 184 people were killed on that fateful day, the
president said: 'Thirteen years after small, hateful minds conspired to break
us, America stands tall and America stands proud.'

Mr Obama paid tribute to the 3,000 people killed in al-Qaeda's attacks just
hours after he announced that US forces would expand military operations against
Islamic State extremists, who have beheaded two US journalists in Syria in the
last month.

'As Americans, we do not give into fear - ever,' he said at the 9/11 memorial in
Washington DC.

In New York, relatives of those who died when the twin towers of the World Trade
Center fell held a ceremony at the new National September 11 Museum for the
first time.

The services began at 8.46am - the moment the first hijacked plane hit the first
Manhattan skyscraper in 2001.

In what has become an annual ritual, relatives slowly recited the names of the
victims, from Gordon Aamoth to Igor Zukelman.

New York governor Andrew Cuomo was among the mourners, as was the city's mayor
Bill de Blasio.

Many people held up posters with photographs of their dead relatives.

The only ceremony open to the public was at the Flight 93 National Memorial in
Shanksville, Pennsylvania, where one of the hijacked airliners crashed.

9/11 before and after pictures: www.metro.co.uk/ september11

LOAD-DATE: September 12, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Tribute: President Obama pays tribute to 9/11 victims at the
PentagonNever forget: The Tribute In Light illuminates the sky over New
YorkPICTURES: REUTERS

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: MTRscot


                   Copyright 2014 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              468 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                          Press Association Mediapoint

                     September 12, 2014 Friday 11:42 AM BST

MAN ACCUSED OF TERROR ATTACK PLAN

BYLINE: Emily Pennink, Press Association

SECTION: HOME NEWS

LENGTH: 137 words


A 29-year-old man has appeared in court accused of arming himself with a knife
and a hammer as he planned a terror attack on British soldiers.

Brusthom Ziamani, appeared via video link at the Old Bailey charged with
preparing an act of terrorism on or before August 20 this year.

The details of the charge state that Ziamani researched locations of military
bases and how to achieve ``Jannah'' or paradise.

He is also alleged to have encouraged others to engage in Jihad and written a
letter expressing his intention to commit a terrorist act on military or
government personnel.

The charge goes on to state that he made peace with an ex-girlfriend and armed
himself with a knife and a hammer.

Ziamani, of Warner Road, Camberwell, south east London, was remanded in custody
until a plea and case management hearing on December 4.

LOAD-DATE: September 13, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newswire


                  Copyright 2014 The Press Association Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              469 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                 thetimes.co.uk

                     September 12, 2014 Friday 10:03 AM GMT

Terror attack now 'likely' in Australia

BYLINE: Sonia Elks

SECTION: AUSTRALIA & NEW ZEALAND

LENGTH: 337 words


Australia has raised the terror threat level to "high" over concerns about
jihadists returning from fighting with militants including Isis in Iraq and
Syria.

The new alert level means that a terrorist attack is now considered "likely" and
is the second highest in a four-tier scale.

"There are people with the intent and the capability to mount attacks here in
Australia," Tony Abbott, the prime minister, told a press conference.

Mr Abbott said that the danger was "broadly comparable" to Britain, where the
terrorism threat level was raised last month to the second-highest risk level on
a five-tier scale.

"I want to stress that this does not mean that a terror attack is imminent," he
said. "We have no specific intelligence of particular plots."

Instead, it was a reflection of "a body of evidence that points to the increased
likelihood of a terrorist attack in Australia", he said in a joint statement
with George Brandis, the attorney-general.

"Security and intelligence agencies are concerned about the increasing number of
Australians working with, connected to, or inspired by terrorist groups such as
Islamic State, Jabhat al-Nusrah, and al-Qaeda," he said. "The threat they pose
has been increasing for more than a year."

The government believes up to 60 Australians are fighting with jihadists for
Islamic State, while another 100 were actively working to support the movement
at home.

Mr Abbott said more than 20 Australian fighters had already returned from
battlefields in the Middle East.

He said that the public might notice more police as a result of the change, but
said that normal life "must go on".

"We need to be aware that there are people who wish to do us harm," he said.
"But we think that our security, intelligence and police organisations are
smarter than them and are one step ahead and can protect us."

The decision came two days after Australian police raided an Islamic centre in
Brisbane and charged two men for alleged involvement in recruiting and sending
jihadist fighters to Syria.

LOAD-DATE: September 12, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBTTO


                     Copyright 2014 News International Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                              470 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                 thetimes.co.uk

                     September 12, 2014 Friday 6:17 AM GMT

Terror attack now 'likely' in Australia

BYLINE: Sonia Elks

SECTION: AUSTRALIA & NEW ZEALAND

LENGTH: 381 words


Australia has raised the terror threat level to "high" over concerns about
Australian jihadists returning from fighting with militants including Isis in
Iraq and Syria.

The new alert level means that a terrorist attack is now considered "likely",
and is the second highest in a four tier scale.

"There are people with the intent and the capability to mount attacks here in
Australia," Tony Abbott, the prime minister, told a press conference.

Mr Abbott said the situation was "broadly comparable" to Britain, where the
terrorism threat level was raised last month to the second-highest risk level on
a five-tier scale.

"I want to stress that this does not mean that a terror attack is imminent," he
told reporters. "We have no specific intelligence of particular plots."

Instead, it was a reflection of "a body of evidence that points to the increased
likelihood of a terrorist attack in Australia", he said in a joint statement
with George Brandis, the attorney-general.

"Security and intelligence agencies are concerned about the increasing number of
Australians working with, connected to, or inspired by terrorist groups such as
ISIL (Islamic State), Jabhat al-Nusrah, and al-Qaeda," he said.

"The threat they pose has been increasing for more than a year."

The government believes up to 60 Australians are fighting alongside jihadists
for Islamic State, while another 100 were actively working to support the
movement at home.

Mr Abbott said more than 20 Australian fighters had already returned from Middle
Eastern battlefields.

He said that the public might notice more police as a result of the change, but
said that normal life "must go on".

"We need to be aware that there are people who wish to do us harm and are
preparing to do us harm," he said.

"But we think that our security, intelligence and police organizations are
smarter than them and are one step ahead of them and can protect us."

The decision came two days after Australian police raided an Islamic centre in
Brisbane and charged two men for alleged involvement in recruiting and sending
jihadist fighters to Syria.

Australia's government recently announced a Aus$630 million counter-terrorism
package that would boost support for security agencies such as the Australian
Federal Police, spy agencies and customs.

LOAD-DATE: September 12, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBTTO


                     Copyright 2014 News International Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                              471 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                          The Daily Telegraph (London)

                          September 13, 2014 Saturday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

Indian terrorist group attacks the wrong ship

BYLINE: Dean Nelson

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 21

LENGTH: 351 words


AL-QAEDA in the Indian Subcontinent, the new offshoot of the terrorist
organisation unveiled last week, bungled its first ever operation when gunmen
targeting a US aircraft carrier attacked a Pakistani naval ship by mistake.

Heavily armed militants swooped on a naval dock in Karachi's sea port last
Saturday night and targeted what they believed was an American ship, but instead
found a Pakistan Navy frigate and were overwhelmed before they could cause any
damage, investigators said.

Three jihadists were killed in the attack, four were captured and another three
arrested the following day on information gleaned from interrogations. Two
Pakistan navy guards were wounded in the fighting.

"It was a complete failure, they did not do any kind of damage, some were
captured and we caught more - seven so far and maybe more to come," a senior
source close to the investigation told The Daily Telegraph.

"They were well-equipped and came with the intention of taking a ship into their
custody but they were caught in the initial stages."

Al-Qaeda in the Indian Subcontinent, the militant group unveiled by Ayman
al-Zawahiri, the al-Qaeda leader, last week to demonstrate his continued
influence despite the rise of Islamic State in Iraq and the Levant (Isil),
claimed responsibility for the attack on Thursday and said former Pakistan navy
personnel had been involved.

"The naval officers who were martyred on Saturday in the attack on Karachi were
al-Qaeda members. They were trying to attack American marines and their
cronies," the group said in a statement.

It added that militants had successfully seized an American vessel but were
thwarted by Pakistan navy troops. "The Pakistani military men who died defending
enemies of the Muslim nation ... are cursed with hell," it added.

Investigators denied that all the attackers had belonged to the Pakistani navy.
They also said they were sceptical about whether al-Qaeda had any involvement in
the attack, saying they suspected it was claiming credit for another group's
work. "If they did it, why would they wait until Thursday to claim it?" said one
source.

LOAD-DATE: September 13, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DTL


                  Copyright 2014 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              472 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                                  Daily Mirror

                          September 13, 2014 Saturday
                                   Edition 1;
                                    Ireland

WARDER'S EYE GOUGE TERROR;
Vicious inmate attacks prison guard to impress gangland boss

BYLINE: CATHAL MCMAHON

SECTION: NEWS; FRONT PAGE; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 72 words


A GUARD was recovering last night after a thug tried to gouge his eyes out in a
brutal prison attack.

The jail worker was jumped on by the well-known ex-sportsman in the unprovoked
assault at Cloverhill.

The attack on Thursday was sparked when the inmate was stopped from talking to a
notorious crimelord.

A source said: "The inmate was clearly trying to impress the gang boss by
showing how ruthless and violent he is."

FULL STORY: PAGE 6

LOAD-DATE: September 13, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: ASSAULT Cloverhill Prison

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DMR


                            Copyright 2014 MGN Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              473 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                    Scotsman

                          September 13, 2014 Saturday

Australia put on high alert for terror attack

BYLINE: Rod Mcguirk

LENGTH: 770  words


THE Australian government has raised its terrorism threat to the second-highest
level in response to the domestic threat posed by Islamic State (IS) movement
supporters.

Prime minister Tony Abbott announced the increase from "medium" to "high", on a
four-tier scale, on the advice of the Australian Security Intelligence
Organisation (ASIO).

The domestic spy agency's director-general, David Irvine, said the threat had
been rising over the past year, particularly in recent months, mainly due to
Australians joining the IS movement to fight in Syria and Iraq.

"I want to stress that this does not mean that a terror attack is imminent," Mr
Abbott told reporters. "We have no specific intelligence of particular plots.

"What we do have is intelligence that there are people with the intent and the
capability to mount attacks."

The Sydney Morning Herald reported that Mr Irvine had suggested a "Bali-style"
attack could be among the threats, in reference to the 2002 bombing of two
nightclubs which killed 202 people, including 88 Australians and 27 Britons.

He said recent events in the Middle East had activated people at home who
support the extremism propagated by militants in Iraq and Syria.

He said 60 to 70 Australians were among what he said were 10,000 foreign
fighters - higher than other recent estimates - in those two countries. He said
some had returned home.

"The rhetoric that is now coming out of the Middle East which is encouraging
Australians to take violent action increases the possibility of attacks here,
and so we see an increase particularly in intent," he said.

Mr Irvine said returning fighters could be intent on trying to carry out a
Bali-style bomb attack but warned it could also be a "lone-wolf" type of
incident.

It is the first time the threat level has been elevated above medium since the
scale was introduced in 2003.

In the aftermath of the al-Qaeda attacks on the United States  on 11 September,
2001, Australia's threat level was "medium" on a three-tier scale.

Mr Abbott described the new setting as "broadly comparable" to the setting in
Britain, where the terrorism threat level was raised last month to the
second-highest risk level on a five-tier scale. He said the public would
probably notice a greater police and security presence at airports, shipping
ports, military bases, government buildings and large public events.

Security at last night's Australian Football League semi-final in Melbourne, for
which 70,000 fans were due to turn out to see Geelong and North Melbourne play,
was expected to be much heavier. "Normal life in Australia can and must go on,
but we need to be aware that there are people who wish to do us harm and are
preparing to do us harm," Mr Abbott said.

Nicholas O'Brien, head of the counter-terrorism school at Australia's Charles
Sturt University, said the shift from saying a terror attack "could happen" to
"is likely" must be based on a significant threat.

It was more remarkable because Mr Irvine made the decision in his final week
before he retires after five years at ASIO's helm, Mr O'Brien said.

"If there were any wriggle room, you'd leave a decision like that to your
successor," he said.

Australia believes some of its citizens are fighting for IS and another al-Qaeda
offshoot, Jabhat al-Nusra, also known as the Nusra Front, in Iraq and Syria.

The suspected brother of a suicide bomber killed in Syria and another alleged
jihadist appeared in an Australian court on Thursday charged with funding and
recruiting al-Qaeda offshoot terrorists in the Middle East.

The Australian government has warned that the IS movement poses an unprecedented
domestic terrorism threat. It will introduce tough counter-terrorism laws this
month and has announced A$630 million (£360m) in new spending on intelligence,
law enforcement and border protection agencies over the next four years to
enhance security, including a roll-out of biometric screening at airports.

The country's attorney-general, George Brandis, stressed that Australian Muslims
were the "victims" of "wicked people" "preying" upon young men, recruiting them
to fight in wars in the Middle East.

Police raided an Islamic bookshop in Brisbane this week and arrested two men who
have both been charged with terrorism-related offences.

Muslim community leader Dr Jamal Rifi told Australia's ABC network he was not
surprised the terror alert had been raised, saying Muslims must be part of the
battle against the threat of terrorism.

He had this message for would-be terrorists: "If you are going to harm this
country or its citizens in any way, we will be the first to jump on you."

LOAD-DATE: September 14, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: STTS


                       Copyright 2014 Johnston Press Plc
                              All Rights Reserved

                              474 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                              Western Morning News

                          September 13, 2014 Saturday

Terror attack plan accused in court

SECTION: FEATURES:MOTORS; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 89  words


A 29-year-old man has appeared in court accused of arming himself with a knife
and a hammer as he planned a terror attack on British soldiers. Brusthom
Ziamani, appeared via video link at the Old Bailey charged with preparing an act
of terrorism on or before August 20 this year. Ziamani, of Warner Road,
Camberwell, London, is accused of researching locations of military bases and of
writing a letter expressing his intention to commit a terrorist act on military
or government personnel. He was remanded in custody until December 4.

LOAD-DATE: September 12, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                           Copyright 2014 Localworld
                              All Rights Reserved

                              475 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                                  Daily Mirror

                           September 14, 2014 Sunday
                                   Edition 1;
                                    Ireland

OAP's 'terror' after attack by bat thugs

BYLINE: GARRETH MacNAMEE

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 102 words


A BATTERED pensioner has told of his ordeal after being attacked in his home by
baton-wielding thugs.

Sean O'Donnell, 76, was ambushed by two men at his house in Artane, north
Dublin, on Thursday night.

The thugs knocked softly on his door at around 9pm and Mr O'Donnell thought it
might have been a neighbour.

He said: "As soon as I opened the door these two men burst into the hall and the
punches started flying. They caught me off-guard. One of them grabbed me as the
other punched me."

Mr O'Donnell uses an artificial voice box, following surgery in 2006, so he was
unable to tell his attackers he had no money.

LOAD-DATE: September 14, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: SMR


                            Copyright 2014 MGN Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              476 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                   MailOnline

                     September 14, 2014 Sunday 5:08 PM GMT

Port of Dover closed for huge armed police exercise to simulate terror attack

BYLINE: AMANDA WILLIAMS FOR MAILONLINE

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 421 words



     ·    The port was closed from midnight until 5am as a mock battle took
          place
     ·    Explosions heard as mock bombs detonated and blank rounds were fired
     ·    Kent Police said exercise designed to protect the port from attack


The Port of Dover was closed overnight as armed police and staff simulated a
terror attack, including mock explosions and gun fire.

The port was closed from midnight until 5am as a 'battle' took place between
fake terrorists and police.

Explosions could be heard as mock bombs were detonated and blank rounds were
fired by armed police as they took control back of the port during the 'attack'.

Kent Police said the exercise is the third and final part of a series of
pre-planned exercises designed to protect the Port with a variety of emergency
situations.

Police would not be drawn on whether the exercise was related to the recent
influx of migrants trying to get to Dover from Calais.

French authorities are struggling to maintain order with up to 2,000 people
living in makeshift camps and squats in and around the French town.

So far this year in Calais the police have stopped 7,500 migrants who were
trying to reach England and it's thought that by the end of the year 30,000 will
have been found hidden in vehicles.

The influx dramatically increased earlier this year when the crisis in Libya
allowed migrants from Eritrea, Ethiopia and Sudan to reach Europe from the North
African coast.

Armed gangs fight pitched battles for control of the best vantage points from
which to break into trucks boarding ferries to Dover.

Tim Waggott, Chief Executive, Port of Dover, said: 'Such exercises, which we
conduct from time to time with our partners, are extremely important in ensuring
that we proactively prepare for any eventuality.

'As Europe's busiest ferry port, it is vital that we keep the safety and
security of all those who work in and travel through the Port at the forefront
of our operations.'

Superintendent Andrea Bishop, Kent Police, said: 'Dover is the gateway to the UK
and Europe and one of the world's busiest ports.

'Consequently, it's of huge strategic importance. Keeping the port safe and
secure for the millions of people who travel through it or work there is a
priority for us and our partners.

'Kent Police has the expertise and resources to ensure that people can go about
their business safely but it's important that we periodically put those to the
test.

'Such exercises are vital to make sure that we can effectively and
professionally deal with potential incidents in the best way possible.'

LOAD-DATE: September 14, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDM


                   Copyright 2014 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              477 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                  mirror.co.uk

                     September 14, 2014 Sunday 12:49 PM GMT

First baby born after dad was killed in 9/11 terror attacks celebrates becoming
a teenager;
Meet the girl who was robbed of ever knowing her dad after his plane was
hijacked as he rushed home to be in time for her birth

BYLINE: By Andy Lines

SECTION: NEWS,WORLD NEWS

LENGTH: 400 words


She was the very first baby born to a dad who died in the 9/11 attacks - and
this weekend she became a teenager.

Thirteen years since the shocking tragedy robbed her of ever knowing her dad
Allison Lee celebrated her landmark birthday.

Danny Lee was flying back to be with his wife at the birth when the plane he was
travelling on was hijacked and flown into the World Trade Center.

Just 48 hours later his traumatised widow Kellie gave birth.

She gave her beautiful newborn daughter the middle name Danielle in honour of
her husband.

Back in 2001 the Sunday Mirror covered the birth with an exclusive story on Page
One under the headline War Baby.

Kellie told the Sunday Mirror: "It's hard to believe Allison Lee is turning 13 -
especially when that means it has been thirteen years since her dad was killed
on 9/11 trying to get home to be there for her birth.

"I remember when I was pregnant with Allison, Dan would kiss my belly and tell
her how much he was looking forward to meeting her.

"Unfortunately that never happened.

"Now she will be a teenager. I often wish Dan could see her now. She has grown
into quite a young lady and Dan would be so proud!"

Kellie, 45, now lives in Henderson, Nevada with her second husband Chris Riordan
and elder daughter Amanda.

In the past Kellie has recalled the difficulty of dealing with the death of her
husband while looking after a newborn baby.

She said: "I even got cards that said congratulations on the birth of your
daughter and condolences on the death of your husband.

"My mum made me call the doctor to see if I should postpone the birth. But I
just wanted to have the baby out because of the stress I was in.

"I was crying and I was in such a turmoil and I didn't think that would be good
for the baby. At the time of the birth my mum and a friend of mine came in - she
cut the cord."

But Kellie still thinks about her Danny and know he's looking down on them.

"Dan would probably be upset to know that both his daughters are so beautiful!
When we found out Allison was going to be a girl he sighed and said "Oh no, the
Lee sisters, looks like I'm going to need a gun!".

"But he would be glad to know they are smart, and healthy and talented."

Danny was a popular and successful roadie for a series of big name bands.

He was working for the Backstreet Boys and had been given time off for the birth
when the tragedy happened.

Have you visited the Ground Zero memorial?

LOAD-DATE: September 15, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDMI


                      Copyright 2014 Trinity Mirror, Plc.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              478 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                               The Sun (England)

                           September 14, 2014 Sunday
                                   Edition 1;
                                    Scotland

Burte ex left me 15 mins from death;
TORTURED BY JEALOUS THUG ; VICTIM REVEALS ATTACK TERROR

BYLINE: BEN ARCHIBALD

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 27

LENGTH: 213 words


A JEALOUS brute left his ex-girlfriend 15 minutes from death after torturing her
for two hours because she had been texting a male pal.

Crazed Marc Leiper locked terrified Kerry Mushet in his flat and battered her as
she begged him to stop.

She tried to escape but suffered a severed artery when the 27-year-old smashed
her head with a metal pole.

During the horrific attack he even taunted her friend Keiran Jackson on
Facebook.

Crazed Leiper eventually agreed to take Kerry, 25, to hospital - but only after
he'd finished watching a boxing match.

She said: "I thought he was going to kill me. He said he was going to chop me
up. It was a bloodbath.

"The nurses said if another 15 minutes had passed I'd have bled to death."

Council worker Kerry, of Kincardine, Fife, started dating Leiper in 2012, but he
attacked her twice. The couple, below, split in 2013 and Kerry later agreed to
meet him at his flat in Falkirk.

But crazed Leiper locked her inside and demanded to know if she'd been texting
any men since they split up, After seeing messages on her phone, he launched the
sickening attack.

Leiper was caged for four years after admitting the May 2013 assault when he
appeared at Falkirk Sheriff Court. Kerry added: "I don't think I'll ever get
over it."

ben.archibald@the-sun.co.uk

LOAD-DATE: September 14, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Thug ex punched and battered herWarped Leiper left Kerry in
agonySickening assault lasted two hoursBruises show where the fiend struck

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: SUNscot


                    Copyright 2014 NEWS GROUP NEWSPAPERS LTD
                              All Rights Reserved

                              479 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                 thetimes.co.uk

                     September 14, 2014 Sunday 2:54 PM GMT

Uganda police foil terror attack in Kampala

BYLINE: Ruth Maclean, Johannesburg

SECTION: AFRICA

LENGTH: 309 words


Ugandan police say they have foiled a terrorist attack in the capital Kampala,
orchestrated by the al-Shabaab terror group.

The planned attack on Kampala could have been in retaliation for the death of
one of al-Shabaab's founders, Ahmed Abdi Godane, in a US air strike a fortnight
ago. The group's new leader, Ahmad Umar, has vowed to avenge his death.

Several suspected terrorists were arrested, after what the US embassy described
as an "al-Shabaab terrorist cell" was prevented from carrying out an "imminent
attack".

"Joint security agencies in Uganda have foiled a terrorist attempt at one of its
installations... we have made arrests," a police spokesman, Fred Enanga, said,
but refused to elaborate.

Al-Shabaab, a jihadist terrorist group from Somalia with links to al-Qaeda, has
attacked Uganda before: its most deadly attack came during the 2010 World Cup
final, when it set off two bombs in busy restaurants. The group said it attacked
Uganda because the country sent troops to the African Union to help in the fight
against al-Shabaab in Somalia.

It is best known, however, for claiming responsibility for killing more than 60
people at the Westgate shopping mall in Nairobi in September last year. In that
attack, gunmen stalked the mall's corridors, shooting dead anybody who was
unable to recite verses from the Qu'ran.

Godane was listed as one of the world's top eight terror fugitives by the US
state department and the group grew and widened its reach under his leadership.

The British government confirmed the thwarted attack and reiterated Uganda's
request to the public to report any suspicious or abnormal movements to the
authorities.

"We remind people of the ongoing threat from terrorism. We advise people to
avoid public places, be vigilant at all times, [and] exercise extreme caution,"
the UK government advised Brits in Uganda.

LOAD-DATE: September 15, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBTTO


                     Copyright 2014 News International Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                              480 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring Middle East - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                           September 15, 2014 Monday

Syria holds Qatar responsible for "terrorist" attacks against UN personnel

LENGTH: 482 words


Text of report in English by state-run Syrian news agency SANA website

Damascus - The Foreign and Expatriates Ministry held Qatar fully responsible for
the kidnapping of personnel of the United Nations Disengagement Observer Force
(UNDOF) monitoring a disengagement accord established in 1974 between Syria and
the Israeli enemy which occupies the Syrian Golan.

An official source at the Ministry said that Syria, over the past period, has
been closely and seriously keeping up with the risks which have faced the UNDOF,
and "noticed that UNDOF personnel came under serious attacks by some armed
terrorist organizations, particularly Jabhat al-Nusra [Al-Nusrah Front]."

Forty-three Fijian UN personnel were kidnapped by what the UN recently described
as "armed elements" on 28 August, who are still detained since. Jabhat al-Nusra,
which is designated as a terrorist organization by the Security Council, claimed
responsibility for the abduction. Clashes also broke out between Filipino troops
and the terrorist groups.

Early last year, a number of Filipino UN personnel operating within the UNDOF
were also kidnapped by armed terrorist groups.

In a statement, which SANA got a copy of, the Foreign Ministry source added that
Syria, "which has always asserted its respect of the UN mission as part of its
international obligations, noticed that the two abduction cases which the
Filipino battalion faced for the first time a year ago, and recently the Fijian
force, were carried out with the direct complicity and incitement of Qatar."

The source stressed that Qatar has ties with Jabhat al-Nusra-an offshoot of
al-Qaeda-in terms of funding and arming the terrorist organization, ties, the
source said, "are no longer unknown to the UN and the international community."

"While stressing that the kidnapping of UNDOF personnel is an unforgivable
crime, Syria affirms that Jabhat al-Nusra criminals wouldn't have been able to
commit such acts had they not been directly emboldened by Qatar as it has showed
willingness to spend millions of dollars under the pretext of it making efforts
to release the abducted UN personnel," the source added.

It pointed out that Syria condemns terrorism under whatever pretext it is
committed in compliance with the rules of the Security Councils' resolutions
1373 and 2170, which provide for combating terrorism and halting its funding.

While condemning terrorism, the source said that Syria "demands that the
Security Council shoulder its responsibility of stopping these Qatari practices
which contravene international law and the Council's relevant resolutions."

As of 31 July, there are 1,223 UN peacekeepers from six countries-Fiji, India,
Ireland, Nepal, Netherlands, and the Philippines-serving in the UNDOF. The UN
force's mandate has been recently renewed until the 13th of next December.

Source: SANA news agency website, Damascus, in English 1545 gmt 14 Sep 14

LOAD-DATE: September 15, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2014 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              481 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                              The Herald (Glasgow)

                           September 15, 2014 Monday
                                   2 Edition

'Imminent' terror attack prevented

BYLINE: NO BYLINE

SECTION: HS - NEWS; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 59 words


KAMPALA: Ugandan police have arrested 19 people in connection with a foiled
attack in central Kampala that the United States has said was hatched by Somali
terror group al-Shabaab. Fred Enanga, a spokesman for Ugandan police, declined
to provide additional details about the individuals, but said: "The attack was
foiled at a stage where it was imminent."

LOAD-DATE: September 15, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: GH


                      Copyright 2014 Newsquest Media Group
                              All Rights Reserved

                              482 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                              liverpoolecho.co.uk

                     September 15, 2014 Monday 3:58 PM GMT

Widow of Liverpool victim of terror attack haunted by last call from husband;
Lorraine Barlow tell inquest of Algeria attack victims she is 'tortured' by what
happened

BYLINE: By Steve Graves

LENGTH: 317 words


The widow of a Liverpool man killed in a terror attack on an Algerian gas plant
has told how she is "haunted" by the last phone call she received from her
husband.

Garry Barlow, 49, from Allerton was among more than 40 hostages killed by al
Qaeda-linked raiders in January 2013.

He died along with five other British workers at the In Amenas BP plant, among
them Paul Morgan from Aigburth.

Today, at the opening of an inquest into the deaths, his wife Lorraine said the
attack on In Amenas had started during his 50th birthday on January 16 2013.

She said she was "tortured by the circumstances" of the staunch Everton fan's
death and "haunted" by a phone call that she received from him shortly before he
was killed.

Mrs Barlow added: "I need to understand why this happened to such a wonderful
man."

Opening the inquest at the Royal Courts of Justice in London, Assistant Coroner
for West Sussex Nicholas Hilliard QC said friends and family had been left
"devastated and bereft."

Judge Hilliard asked for silence as he read out the names of all 40 of the
victims.

Pictures of the victims were shown on a screen as family and friends told the
inquest about their lives and the impact of their deaths.

The relatives of health and safety executive Stephen Green, from Hampshire, said
their lives had been "turned upside down".

His father David said: "Stephen's death has been very hard for us. He had a lot
of happiness to look forward to.

"I feel both grief and anger - grief that my son was refused a happy future and
anger against those responsible. They are not forgiven or understood."

Judge Hilliard told the inquest: "Each was wholly innocent of events which
unfolded when a group of heavily armed went into the In Amenas gas facility.

"Forty innocent people lost their lives, such was the scale of events.

"Each and every death is a wholly separate tragedy and leaves family and friends
devastated and bereft."

LOAD-DATE: October 10, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBLIV


                         Copyright 2014 Trinity Mirror
                              All Rights Reserved

                              483 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                   MailOnline

                     September 15, 2014 Monday 3:19 PM GMT

Al Qaeda's new Indian branch laughing stock of the terror world after mistakenly
attacking Pakistani frigate instead of an American aircraft carrier

BYLINE: JOHN HALL FOR MAILONLINE

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 1003 words



     ·    Ten militants stormed Pakistani naval ship after mistaking it for U.S.
          vessel
     ·    Armed group were easily overwhelmed, with three killed and seven
          arrested
     ·    Jihadists thought navy frigate in Karachi dockyard was U.S. aircraft
          carrier
     ·    USS  George Washington believed to have been nearby on day of the
          attack
     ·    Al Qaeda in Indian Subcontinent was formally established just two
          weeks ago
     ·    Leader Ayman al-Zawahiri hoped to revive fortunes of his ailing terror
          group
     ·    Would-be jihadists are now more likely to join rival Islamic
          extremists ISIS
     ·    ISIS sympathisers took to Twitter to mock Al Qaeda's failed Karachi
          attack


The newly-formed branch of Al Qaeda in the Indian Subcontinent has botched its
first attempt at a terror attack after jihadists mistook a Pakistani naval ship
for a U.S. aircraft carrier.

Ten heavily armed militants from the terror cell had planned to storm an
American military vessel in Karachi's sea dock - but found a Pakistani naval
frigate in it's place.

The men were easily overwhelmed before they could do any damage, investigators
said, with three of the militants killed and the remaining seven arrested.

Al Qaeda leader Ayman al-Zawahiri formally announced the founding of a terror
cell in the Indian subcontinent two weeks ago in the hope of reviving his ailing
extremist group, which has suffered diminishing support since the unprecedented
rise of rival Islamic extremist group ISIS.

Scroll down for video

Despite the failure of the terror attack on September 6, Al Qaeda in the Indian
Subcontinent claimed responsibility - adding that the men involved were all
former members of the Pakistani navy.

'The Naval officers who were martyred on Saturday in the attack on Karachi were
Al Qaeda members. They were trying to attack American marines and their
cronies,' the group said in a statement released last Thursday.

'The Pakistani military men who died defending enemies of the Muslim
nation...are cursed with hell', they added, apparently still incorrectly
believing the attacked vessel had been a U.S.aircraft carrier.

The craft the group intended to strike may have been the USS George Washington,
believed to have been stationed off the coast of west Pakistan on the day of the
incident, having left Japanese waters the previous day.

Investigators have also denied that the militants were all former members of the
Pakistani navy, saying only one of the 10 men was from a naval background.

There were also suggestions that the attack may not even have been carried out
by Al Qaeda at all, and that its increasingly desperate leadership is simply
claiming credit for another group's botched work in the hope it makes them
appear more active than they are currently capable of being.

This line of inquiry appears to be reinforced by the delay of five days between
the failed storming and Al Qaeda's statement claiming responsibility - with the
terror group likely waiting to see if the real culprits came forward to admit
the embarrassing effort before claiming it for themselves.

A senior investigator speaking to the Telegraph described the attack as a
'complete failure' and suggested there may be further arrests relating to the
incident.

'They were well-equipped and came with the intention of taking a ship into their
custody but they were caught in the initial stages,' the unnamed source was
quoted as saying.

The formation of Al Qaeda in the Indian Subcontinent was tailored to counter the
flagging image of the group - which has suffered a reversal in fortunes since
former leader Osama bin Laden died.

CAMERON PREPARING TO JOIN AIR STRIKES ON ISIS... BUT ONLY AFTER THE SCOTTISH
REFERENDUM

David Cameron is preparing to join airstrikes on ISIS in the wake of the murder
of British hostage David Haines - but will not move until after this week's
Scottish referendum, it was claimed today.

The Prime Minister is under mounting pressure from MPs to act against the ISIS
terror threat but has so far resisted calls to recall Parliament to authorise a
bombing campaign in the Middle East.

Foreign Secretary Philip Hammond will attend a summit in Paris today in an
attempt to forge a coalition of countries - including Arab states - into a
military alliance to push back the jihadist advance.

The Prime Minister will then attend the UN General Assembly in New York on
Tuesday and Wednesday where he is expected to outline plans to combat ISIS.

MPs have been told to expect to be recalled on the Thursday after the UN
session, according to the Daily Telegraph.

It comes after Mr Cameron attacked the 'monstrous' fanatics responsible for the
murder of Mr Haines this weekend.

Al Qaeda members have previously carried out atrocities such as the simultaneous
United States embassy truck bombings in East Africa in 1998, the September 11
plane attacks in the United States in 2001, and the London Underground bombings
on July 7, 2005.

But the group has lost direction and support since its founder Osama Bin Laden
was killed by a team of U.S Navy Seals in Pakistan in 2011 - not least after
subsequent leader al-Zawahiri blacklisted former Al Qaeda loyalists ISIS last
year and condemning the group for exhibiting unnecessary brutality.

ISIS has since gained vast swathes of territory in the Middle East and attracted
thousands of Western extremists to fight under its banner in Syria and Iraq -
including at least 500 Britons.

Earlier this year ISIS' leader Abu Bakr al-Baghdadi declared the terror group a
'caliphate' and declared himself a caliph - the spiritual leader of all Muslims
worldwide.

The group has also carried out the sickening filmed murders of American
journalists James Foley and Steven Sotloff, and of the British aid worker David
Haines.

News of Al Qaeda in the Indian Subcontinent's failure to successfully carry out
the terror attack has been met with mockery by ISIS sympathizers.

Extremists took to Twitter to brand the group 'out of date' and condemned it for
committing terror attacks without ever attempting to seize territory.

LOAD-DATE: September 15, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDM


                   Copyright 2014 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              484 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                          manchestereveningnews.co.uk

                     September 15, 2014 Monday 3:12 PM GMT

Lifer Clifton Jeter 'told by Strangeways prison guards to attack jailed
terrorist', jury is told;
The 36-year-old murderer denies attempting to murder two prison officers at HMP
Manchester

BYLINE: By Paul Britton

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 379 words


A murderer serving a life sentence claimed prison officers at Strangeways wanted
him to fight a convicted terrorist.

Clifton Jeter, 36, also alleged during his evidence that a 'culture of racism'
existed on a specialist unit where he was being held at the prison.

Jeter, who was jailed for life after he stabbed a dad-of-seven to death in
London in 2007, is accused of attempting to murder guards Alistair Cadell and
Liam Keates with a crude, home-made weapon last November. He denies two counts
of attempted murder at a Manchester Crown Court trial.

The jury has been told that Jeter used a razor blade melted into a plastic knife
handle. The court heard Mr Cadell was slit on the face, head back and shoulder,
and Keates to the back of his neck and across the knee,

Mr Jeter however said staff had wanted him to take part in a plot to attack
jailed Islamic terrorist Parviz Khan, who was locked up in 2008 and is serving a
14-year minimum term, but he refused.

The court has heard that a prison gang called 'the Piranhas' exists which seeks
to target Muslim convicts.

Prosecutor William Baker, who told the jury that Jeter simply wanted a prison
transfer because he wasn't enjoying the unit, said he had 'made up' the racism
allegation but Jeter replied: "I did not make it up. It is true."

He went on to alleged that officers were 'mistreating' prisoners and 'hiding'
the Independent Monitoring Board from them, a body which looks into conditions.

Jeter said there was a 'conspiracy' to force him to attack Khan because 'I was a
Piranha and he was a Muslim'.

He went on to say that Mr Cadell knew it and could 'wind him up' and officers
used to 'make suggestions about what I should do to Parviz Khan'

Jeter said: "The officers wanted me and Parviz Khan to fight each other'.
Opening the case to the jury, Mr Baker said Jeter had claimed that he attacked
both men in a form of 'pre-emptive' self-defence because of the issue over Khan.

Jeter also went on to deny that he said he shouted 'I am going to christen the
unit in blood' before the officers were attacked.

The incident happened near cells at an 'enclosed' unit for 'violent' lifers.
Jeter was moved to HMP Manchester in September 2013 ahead of a proposed transfer
to another jail for a violence reduction programme.

Proceeding.

LOAD-DATE: September 16, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBGMWNGMANC


                      Copyright 2014 Trinity Mirror, Plc.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              485 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                               The Times (London)

                           September 15, 2014 Monday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

Uganda arrests al-Shabaab gang to avert terror attack

BYLINE: Ruth Maclean

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 36

LENGTH: 231 words


Uganda has foiled an imminent terrorist attack in the capital Kampala by
breaking up a jihadist cell and arresting several militants.

The group, supposedly comprising members of al-Shabaab, the al-Qaeda-linked
terror group based in Somalia, is thought to have been trying to avenge the
death of its leader, Ahmed Abdi Godane, killed in an American drone strike a
fortnight ago. The US is helping an African military force in Somalia, heavily
made up of Ugandans, which has succeeded in wresting much of the country from
the control of the Islamist militant group.

"Joint security agencies in Uganda have foiled a terrorist attempt at one of its
installations ... we have made arrests," a police spokesman, Fred Enanga, said,
refusing to elaborate.

Al-Shabaab has attacked Uganda before, most notably during the 2010 World Cup
final, when it set off two bombs in busy restaurants crowded with fans. It was
also responsible for last year's attack on the Westgate shopping centre in
Kenya, resulting in at least 67 deaths.

The group's new leader, Ahmad Umar, has vowed to respond to the killing of his
predecessor, who was listed as one of the top eight terror fugitives by the US
state department, and the group grew and widened its reach under his leadership.

The British government confirmed the thwarted attack and issued a warning for
Britons in Uganda to be vigilant and avoid public places.

LOAD-DATE: September 15, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: TIM


                    Copyright 2014 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              486 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                               The Times (London)

                           September 15, 2014 Monday
                                   Edition 2;
                                National Edition

Uganda arrests gang to avert terror attack

BYLINE: Ruth Maclean

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 36

LENGTH: 123 words


Uganda has foiled an imminent terrorist attack in the capital Kampala by
breaking up a jihadist cell and arresting several militants (Ruth Maclean
writes).

The group, supposedly comprising members of al-Shabaab, the al-Qaeda-linked
terror group based in Somalia, is thought to have been trying to avenge the
death of Ahmed Abdi Godane, its leader, who was killed in an American drone
strike a fortnight ago.

The US is helping an African military force in Somalia, heavily made up of
Ugandans, which has succeeded in wresting much of the country from the control
of the Islamist militant group. "Joint security agencies in Uganda have foiled a
terrorist attempt at one of its installations ... we have made arrests," a
police spokesman said.

LOAD-DATE: September 15, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: TIM


                    Copyright 2014 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              487 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                       BBC Monitoring Africa - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                           September 16, 2014 Tuesday

Kenyan paper lauds officers who responded to Westgate terror attack

LENGTH: 643 words


Text of editorial entitled "Westgate: Let's salute those who risked life and
limb" published by Kenyan privately-owned daily newspaper The Standard website
on 16 September

The common narrative that has come out of the painful memories of last year's
Westgate mall terror attack on 21 September 2013 was that several brave police
officers, reservists and KDF [Kenya Defence Forces] soldiers responded to a very
grave situation. Many arrived at the mall without the faintest idea of the
enormity of the task that awaited them.

But like the brave officers they were trained to be, they responded with bravery
and tenacity. In the end, these heroes managed to rescue hundreds from the
Al-Shabab attackers who had descended on the mall and started firing
indiscriminately at the shoppers and other people who were in the building.

The first group of armed officers was overwhelmed by what they saw. Dead bodies
were strewn across the parking area and mall walkways. People were groaning in
pain, nursing serious gunshot wounds needing urgent medical assistance. The real
story of the security officers who entered the mall and fought with the
attackers has not been told until now.

Many others complemented the rescue efforts. These include those who called for
help on behalf of those who were trapped in the mall. These people indirectly
helped by liaising with Red Cross workers and other sources of help.

Some of the officers who went into the mall to engage the terrorists carry deep
physical and emotional wounds. Many bear the scars of battle like a badge of
honour. One of them was shot 15 times and survived. Another has four bullet
holes in his body. There are other officers like Lieutenant Joseph Mukoto
Masulia of the elite Kenya Defence Forces Ranger Strike Force who paid the
ultimate price.

As we commemorate the first anniversary since that tragic day, many of the
officers - both civilian and uniformed - are yet to be rewarded for their
bravery. We are, after all, a nation that adores and honours its heroes. We get
excited when our athletes are the first to cross the finishing line - as is
often the case - at international meetings. We leap with excitement when our
artistes are honoured with coveted prizes locally and abroad. Yet our heroes who
sacrifice their lives at home are forgotten or ignored.

The story of our freedom fighters who went into the forests and fought the
British colonialists still rankles. Many of them are still waiting to be
honoured. Being a police officer, a soldier or a police reservist can sometimes
feel like a thankless job. The police service is often associated with
brutality, corruption, incompetence and low morale. In spite of the poor image,
there are many officers who excel and uphold the virtues of public service as
encapsulated by the police motto - Utumishi kwa wote [service to all].

To write a new chapter, we must look into the plight of the officers who risked
their lives to save hundreds at Westgate that day. A reward or state
recognition, a medal for valour or even a promotion would lift the morale of the
security teams.

Granted, the Westgate siege had its own underside. It exposed the divisions and
lack of coordination among the various armed forces, which led to the death of
some officers reportedly from friendly fire. But looking back one year later, it
is fitting that we look at the tragic event in the perspective that all those
who put their lives on the line meant well. They put their own safety on the
line for the sake of others and for the sake of the country. That, in a word, is
patriotism in action.

We need to celebrate them all as they exhibited leadership and courage. Indeed,
it would inspire young officers to realise that courage and bravery are
essential ingredients to rising up the ranks of the uniformed forces.

Source: The Standard website, Nairobi, in English 16 Sep 14

LOAD-DATE: September 16, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2014 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              488 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                       BBC Monitoring Africa - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                           September 16, 2014 Tuesday

US envoy "congratulates" Ugandan president over foiled terror attack

LENGTH: 767 words


Text of report by Simon Masaba entitled "US envoy calls Museveni over foiled
attacks" published by state-owned, mass-circulation Ugandan daily The New Vision
website on 16 September; subheadings as published

Kampala: The United States ambassador in Kampala, Scott H. DeLisi, has
telephoned President Yoweri Museveni to congratulate him, following the
successful operation carried out by Ugandan security agencies that foiled an
Al-Shabab terrorist plot.

Ambassador DeLisi noted that the disruption of the terrorist plot in Kampala had
saved lives.

"We can confirm that Ambassador DeLisi did, indeed, call President Museveni to
congratulate him and express the United States' gratitude for the successful
disruption of an Al-Shabab terrorist attack," Daniel Travis, the US embassy's
public affairs officer, said in a brief statement emailed to New Vision.

Daniel Travis quoted the ambassador as saying: "The work of the Ugandan security
agencies certainly saved lives and led to the arrest of several suspected
terrorists. The US embassy deeply appreciates Uganda's continued commitment to
our strong partnership in the pursuit of regional peace and security."

In a Monday post on his Facebook wall, the ambassador said: "I have already
spoken to senior government officials to acknowledge the tremendous work of
security agencies here in disrupting an Al-Shabab terrorist plot.
Congratulations to all for a huge success in our common struggle to ensure
people can live in peace and security."

The police over the weekend raided what was described as a suspected Al-Shabab
cell in the downtown Mengo-Kisenyi suburb [Kampala] that was planning an
imminent terror attack.

Nineteen suspects were arrested in the operation on Saturday. The same day, the
US embassy sent out an alert, urging all American citizens in Uganda to stay
indoors.

It has since sent out an advisory saying that "based on coordination with
Ugandan authorities, we believe the immediate threat of an Al-Shabab attack has
been effectively countered."

Nonetheless, Americans were urged to remain vigilant.

More suspects arrested

Police has said they had arrested six more Al-Shabab terror suspects in Kampala,
bringing the number to 25 in custody since the raid over the weekend.

The suspects were arrested on Saturday and Monday from Mengo-Kisenyi, a densely
populated city suburb with a huge Somali community. Sources said all suspects
are fairly new immigrants in the country and are of Somali origin.

The police and security agencies searching a vehicle in Kampala on Saturday

The sources said Ugandan security agencies have been joined by the American
Federal Bureau of Investigations forensic experts in the investigations.

The Special Investigations Division (SID) commandant, Charles Kataratambi told
New Vision, that the government had hired Somali interpreters to help during the
interrogation of the suspects. According to sources, three of the suspected
terrorists are women.

Sources said security in the operation seized two suicide vests and other
explosive materials. It is suspected the suicide vests were smuggled into Uganda
from Somalia via Kenya.

Security believes the foiled terror attack was being coordinated by a
high-ranking commander in Al-Shabab, identified as Adan Garaar, who eluded
arrest, but is believed to be still in Uganda.

Al-Shabab, according to security sources, wanted to punish Uganda for the role
the UPDF [Uganda People's Defence Forces] troops under the African Union
peacekeeping Mission (Amisom), played in providing intelligence that enabled the
US forces to kill Al-Shabab's overall leader, Ahmed Godane.

Consequently, the police have tightened security at all public places. Police
have also increased patrols in the city and other towns.

Earlier attacks

The discovery of the Al-Shabab cell in Uganda came as Kenya prepared to mark the
first anniversary of an Al-Shabab attack on Nairobi's Westgate Shopping Mall in
which 67 people were killed.

In July 2010, Al-Shabab bombed two entertainment places in Kampala as soccer
fans were watching the World Cup final on television.

The twin bomb attacks at Kyadondo Rugby Grounds in Lugogo and Ethiopian Village
in Kabalagala [Kampala] killed 74 people and left many others injured. Al-Shabab
terrorists oppose Kenya and Uganda's participation in Amisom, which is backing
the internationally-recognised Somali government and working to bring about
peace and security in the war-torn country.

Amisom brings together under a unified command troops provided by Burundi,
Djibouti, Ethiopia, Kenya and Sierra Leone.

Source: The New Vision website, Kampala, in English 16 Sep 14

LOAD-DATE: September 16, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2014 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              489 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                       BBC Monitoring Africa - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                          September 17, 2014 Wednesday

Somalia's Al-Shabab dismiss Uganda claim on foiled terror attack in Kampala

LENGTH: 541 words


Text of report by website of the Somali Al-Shabab group's Radio Andalus on 15
September

In a press release issued on 15 September, Al-Shabaab dismissed a Uganda
Government statement stating that its security forces foiled a terror attack
that was to happen in the capital, Kampala, describing it as a baseless baby
talk meant for propaganda.

The press release signed by Al-Shabaab spokesman Sheikh Ali Mahmud Rage
popularly known as Sheikh Ali Dheere detailed Uganda's motive behind
disseminating such baseless reports claiming that it foiled an attack which the
mujahideen were to carry out in its capital.

"Of late, we have been hearing through the media false reports disseminated by
the Christian country of Uganda regarding an attack which the mujahideen
allegedly planned to carry out inside its territories but aborted by its forces.
These reports are unfounded since there were absolutely no attacks on Uganda
planned by the mujahideen and aborted by Ugandan security forces," said the
mujahideen press release.

The Al-Shabaab statement also commented on claims by Ugandan officials who said
that they had captured a number of Somali nationals suspected to have links with
the mujahideen and a cache of weapons including explosive materials, terming
such claims baseless propaganda meant to cover up the African Union Mission in
Somalia [AMISOM] colonizers' failure.

"After realizing that their invasion of Somalia has failed and that the Somali
people have come to know their evil plots, Museveni's forces began to keep their
citizens busy with cheap propaganda by claiming to have foiled a planned
mujahideen attack that was to occur in Kampala. If the mujahideen had planned
any attack, God willing, they would have executed it according to plan as it is
impossible for the Ugandan security agencies to avert mujahideen operations,"
added the Ali Dheere-signed mujahideen press release.

The swoop operations in Kampala targeting Somali nationals are aimed at covering
up the rape scandal facing AMISOM troops. Uganda's aim of conducting such
security operations targeting members of the Somali community in that country is
to loot the community's property and divert attention from AMISOM forces raping
Somali women.

Meanwhile, a military court in Kampala is expected to hand various sentences to
Ugandan officers accused of corruption and stealing supplies meant for the
Ugandan forces operating in Somalia.

"We are telling the Somali people that the enemy is desperately looking for
excuses in order to rob their property by labelling them as members of
Al-Shabaab. The people whom the infidels' police arrested in Kampala are not
members of Al-Shabaab; this is just an excuse to rob their property and an
attempt to cover up the rape and other atrocities committed by the Ugandan
military against innocent Somali women," the press release added.

The mujahideen statement follows Ugandan Government claims that it aborted a
planed mujahideen attack on its soil.

Political analysts say that Uganda has come under mounting pressure from Western
nations that fund its military invasion of Somalia, hence the desperate decision
to engage in anything that would, in its thinking, ease that pressure.

Source: Radio Andalus website in Somali 15 Sep 14

LOAD-DATE: September 17, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2014 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              490 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring South Asia - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                          September 18, 2014 Thursday

Pakistan lodges protest with Afghanistan over cross-border terror attack

LENGTH: 307 words


Text of report published by Pakistan newspaper The Nation website on 18
September

Islamabad: Pakistan on Wednesday lodged protest with Afghanistan on cross-border
terrorist attack that killed four soldiers in North Waziristan tribal region on
Tuesday.

Pakistan army says a group of terrorists from Afghanistan side attacked a
Pakistani post in Spinwam border area of North Waziristan Agency.

Pakistani troops repulsed attack and killed 11 terrorists and apprehended one
alive. Four paramilitary soldiers, guarding the border, were killed in the
attack.

"A strong protest has been lodged with Afghanistan over a physical attack
launched by terrorists from across the border in the North Waziristan area," the
Foreign Ministry said. "While lodging the protest over the terrorist attack,
serious concerns were conveyed to the Afghan side on the developing threats from
the recently established sanctuaries across the border in Khost and Paktika
provinces," the ministry's spokesperson said in a statement. The Afghan side was
told that at a time when Pakistani authorities were undertaking a monumental
effort against terrorists through the military operation in the same region, and
all possible cooperation was expected from the Afghan side, besides tangible
steps to eliminate these sanctuaries and safe havens to avoid recurrence of such
attacks.

Giving details of the attack, the Foreign Ministry said that between 90-100
terrorists had made their entry into Pakistani territory on 16 September from
recently established sanctuaries/safe havens in Khost, Afghanistan, opposite to
North Waziristan. Afghanistan also says rockets are fired into its territory
from the Pakistani side of the border. Kabul also claims Afghan Taliban leaders
are hiding in Pakistan, a charge denied by Islamabad.

Source: The Nation website, Islamabad, in English 18 Sep 14

LOAD-DATE: September 18, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2014 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              491 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                           Coventry Evening Telegraph

                          September 18, 2014 Thursday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

Bombings kill eleven in Iraq;
HOT SPOTS ; TERROR ATTACKS

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 113 words


TWO bombings, including a suicide attack on a security post outside Baghdad,
have killed at least 11 people in Iraq.

Police officials said the deadliest attack took place when a suicide bomber
drove a car packed with explosives into an abandoned building used by security
forces in the town of Tarmiyah, 30 miles north of Baghdad, killing five soldiers
and three policemen. At least 16 members of the security forces were injured.

President Barack Obama has reaffirmed that he does not intend to send US troops
into combat against the Islamic State group, despite doubts about the ability of
Iraqi forces, Kurdish fighters and Syrian rebels to carry out the ground fight
on their own.

LOAD-DATE: September 18, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: CVT


                   Copyright 2014 Coventry Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              492 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                              DAILY MAIL (London)

                          September 18, 2014 Thursday

LONE CARE WORKER'S TERROR AS ATTACKER SMASHED THROUGH BATHROOM

BYLINE: BY LIZ HULL

LENGTH: 540 words


A YOUNG care worker who broke her back jumping from a first-floor window to
escape a violent patient last night said she was lucky to be alive'.

Jemma Rixon was working a night shift alone at a care home for the mentally ill
when schizophrenic Craig Cantwell became aggressive and threatened to rape and
kill her.

Miss Rixon locked herself in a bathroom while Cantwell - in a menacing voice
described as sounding like Freddy Krueger' from the film Nightmare On Elm Street
- stood outside and shouted he would kill her unless she opened up.

When he began to smash a large hole in the plasterboard wall, petrified Miss
Rixon jumped 20ft from the bathroom window to escape and broke her back.

Yesterday she waived her right to anonymity to call for more safety for care
staff dealing with potentially dangerous patients. Miss Rixon said she should
never have been left to care alone for Cantwell, who had a previous conviction
for assaulting another member of staff. I knew I had only one choice: jump out
of the window, or stay and be raped or even worse, killed,' Miss Rixon, 20, of
Wirral, Merseyside, said. I'm lucky to be alive.'

She added: I should never have been left on my own. On that night, I had sole
responsibility for six residents - many of whom have mental health problems. It
wasn't safe for me to be the only member of staff on shift.'

Liverpool Crown Court heard that Miss Rixon, then 19, was on duty at the home in
Birkenhead, in July last year when Cantwell who had been drinking with another
resident, became agitated.

She managed to calm him, but he claimed he had a headache and the pair went
upstairs to the medication room for painkillers. Once there he became
aggressive, locked the door behind them and started punching her.

I ran into the bathroom and locked myself in,' Miss Rixon added. I thought I was
safe, but as I tried to call the police, he started bashing his way through the
wall using a chair.'

With Cantwell, 30, threatening to kill her, she jumped out of the window.

As she lay on the ground with her back fractured in two places, she heard
Cantwell running down the stairs. Luckily, two milkmen were passing and kept him
at bay until police arrived.

In April he was found guilty of grievous bodily harm, with intent to commit a
sexual offence and affray. He was jailed for seven years, with an extra two
years on licence, by Judge Alan Conrad who said it defied belief' no-one else
was on duty at the Potens residential home. He asked the Care Quality Commission
to investigate.

Miss Rixon had to use a back brace and wheelchair until she could walk again.
She also suffered panic attacks and contemplated suicide. I just hope other care
homes realise how dangerous it is to let people work alone.'

A spokesman for the care home said: Potensial Ltd regrets this unforeseen and
extremely unfortunate incident. Ms Rixon remains an employee and we will
continue to support her recuperation.'

A CQC spokesman said the home had been inspected three times since the attack.
He added: We identified issues with the lone worker arrangements, staff training
and risk assessment procedures. Improvements have been made and are being
maintained by the care home, which is currently meeting our provider standards.'

© Daily Mail

LOAD-DATE: September 17, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Papers


                   Copyright 2014 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              493 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                   MailOnline

                    September 18, 2014 Thursday 11:11 PM GMT

Parliament House the 'target of a Mumbai-style terror attack', security
officials say

BYLINE: LOUISE CHEER FOR DAILY MAIL AUSTRALIA and DANIEL MILLS FOR DAILY MAIL
AUSTRALIA

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 624 words



     ·    Tony Abbott confirmed a terror attack was planned on Parliament House
     ·    He said security would be beefed up 'immediately' at the building
     ·    At its busiest more than 5000 people work and visit Canberra building
     ·    It comes after intelligence intercepted 'chatter' about a terror plot
     ·    It indicated Parliament House and ASIO were targets in an alleged plan
     ·    Senior source says Parliament House is one of most vulnerable targets


Prime Minister Tony Abbott has confirmed Parliament House in Canberra has been a
target for terrorists and security will be beefed up.

Australian Federal Police officers will be deployed 'immediately' at the site of
Australia's top government building in a bid to bolster security amid reports a
terror attack was planned.

Speaking on Friday Mr Abbott said a review of security at Parliament House was
conducted after the potential threats were identified.

'One of the first consequences of the review of security has been moves to put
Australian Federal Police back in charge of internal as well as external
security,' he said.

'It is happening almost immediately.'

Mr Abbott's comments come following conversations which were intercepted by
joint-intelligence agencies which intercepted 'chatter' that a terror attack was
planned.

ASIO intercepted information about plans to target the Prime Minister, other
public officials and members of the public.

More than 5000 people work in Parliament House when Federal Parliament is in
session and it is a major attraction in for tourists groups and schoolchildren.

Asked if people would be safe, Mr Abbott said: 'it is a safe country (Australia)
but we have to be aware there are people... who would do us harm.'

Security will be bolstered at Parliament House for the first time since March
when control was downgraded in March.

Intelligence agencies uncovered a possible terror plot similar to the one
carried out in 2008 in Mumbai, India.

The Mumbai attacks involved 12 separate incidents combining the use of guns and
bombs over four days, and were orchestrated by terrorist group Lashkar-e-Taiba.

The move to redeploy high-level security will be bolstered over the coming days,
in the wake of conversations reportedly intercepted by joint intelligence and
security agencies.

'The chatter has picked up talk of Parliament House, I can confirm that' an
intelligence officer told The Daily Telegraph.

It is understood the biggest concern was the threat to people inside that
building, including not only staff but MPs and members of the general public who
visit on a daily basis.

The 'chatter' was reportedly intercepted by joint authorities including police,
counter-terrorism, spy, agencies, ­which revealed talk about access to
Parliament House.

It also indicated ASIO was an additional target.

A senior intelligence source confirmed it would not be hard to gain access to
Parliament House.

'There are a lot of lives in this building. And it is a building that is
currently very vulnerable to a random act of violence,' the source told The
Daily Telegraph.

'The weakest point is the ministerial wing. You could take out two blokes
sitting at a desk and walk straight into the courtyard with a line of sight into
the PM's office.'

This possible plot has been revealed after Thursday's anti-terror raids that saw
800 police officers carry out 25 search warrants across Sydney's west and
Brisbane.

Fifteen people were arrested but only two people were charged in Australia's
largest operation of its kind.

From these raids, it was revealed suspected home-grown terrorists were plotting
to pick a random person off the street and behead them while draped in an
Islamic State flag on video, similar to the deaths of U.S. journalists James
Foley and Steven Sotloff and British aid worker David Haines.

LOAD-DATE: September 18, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDM


                   Copyright 2014 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              494 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                   MailOnline

                    September 18, 2014 Thursday 5:14 PM GMT

Parliament House the 'target of a Mumbai-style terror attack', security
officials say

BYLINE: LOUISE CHEER FOR DAILY MAIL AUSTRALIA

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 342 words



     ·    Intelligence sources say they have intercepted 'chatter' about the
          plot
     ·    It indicates Parliament House and ASIO are targets in an alleged plan
     ·    Senior source says Parliament House is one of most vulnerable targets
     ·    Security has been upped in the building with more AFP officers on
          ground


Intelligence agencies have uncovered a possible terror plot targeting Parliament
House and senior government officials, including the Prime Minister.

There are concerns the building has already been scouted to carry out an attack
using automatic firearms, similar to the one carried out in 2008 in Mumbai,
India.

The Mumbai attacks involved 12 separate incidents combining the use of guns and
bombs over four days, and were orchestrated by terrorist group Lashkar-e-Taiba.

Agencies have picked up 'chatter' that discusses entrances into Parliament
House, The Daily Telegraph  reported.

It also indicated ASIO was an additional target.

A senior intelligence source confirmed it would not be hard to gain access to
Parliament House.

'There are a lot of lives in this building. And it is a building that is
currently very vulnerable to a random act of violence,' the source told The
Daily Telegraph.

'The weakest point is the ministerial wing. You could take out two blokes
sitting at a desk and walk straight into the courtyard with a line of sight into
the PM's office.'

In response to this threat, extra Australian Federal Police have been sent to
Parliament House and numbers will increase over the next few days.

This possible plot has been revealed after Thursday's anti-terror raids that saw
800 police officers carry out 25 search warrants across Sydney's west and
Brisbane.

Fifteen people were arrested but only two people were charged in Australia's
largest operation of its kind.

From these raids, it was revealed suspected home-grown terrorists were plotting
to pick a random person off the street and behead them while draped in an
Islamic State flag on video, similar to the deaths of U.S. journalists James
Foley and Steven Sotloff and British aid worker David Haines.

LOAD-DATE: September 18, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDM


                   Copyright 2014 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              495 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                     September 19, 2014 Friday 4:33 PM GMT

Australia puts armed police in parliament after more threats;
Australian police and military began 24-hour patrols of Sydney Harbour Bridge,
Opera House and parliament after "chatter" of a potential terror attack

BYLINE: By Jonathan Pearlman Sydney

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 706 words


Tony Abbott, Australia's prime minister, has urged Australians to "go about our
normal business" as police and the military began 24-hour patrols of the Sydney
Harbour Bridge, the Opera House and Parliament House following the exposure of
an Islamic State plot to conduct filmed public beheadings in Sydney.

As security forces conducted further terror raids around the country and warned
the operation would take months, Mr Abbott revealed that police foiled a
London-style plot overseen by an Australian, believed to be Mohammad Baryalei, a
former actor and nightclub bouncer who has become a leading figure in the
recruitment of Australian jihadist fighters.

The prime minister confirmed that extra security had been placed inside and
around Parliament House in Canberra after it was specifically mentioned as a
target in intercepted "chatter" amongst terrorist networks.

"We saw on the streets of London the sorts of things some people would like to
perpetrate here in this country," Mr Abbott said, referring to the slaughter of
Lee Rigby on a London street by two Muslim converts.

"It is a serious situation when all you need to do to carry out a terrorist
attacks is to have a knife, an iPhone and a victim. Terrorists want to scare us
out of being ourselves and our best response is to insouciantly be fully
Australian, to defy the terrorists by going about our normal business ... The
best response is to be fully Australian."

The Australian Federal Police said it had conducted further raids yesterday and
indicated more arrests were likely following the nation's largest
counter-terrorism operation. Fifteen people were detained in Sydney and Brisbane
on Thursday to prevent a plot - at the behest of Islamic State - to carry out
filmed executions of random people in Sydney "within days".

The raids have shocked the nation and prompted police and the military to
increase security at landmarks, defence sites and transport hubs across the
nation as well as at the weekend's rugby league and Australian Rules football
finals.

"Had this not been disrupted when it was, it would have happened within days,"
said George Brandis, the Attorney General.

The plot was believed to have been ordered by Mr Baryalei, a 33-year-old
Australian who once appeared in a small role in the Underbelly television show,
a series coincidentally about Australian gangsters. He entered Syria via Turkey
in April 2013 and is believed to have recruited at least half of the 60 known
Australians to have joined Islamic State in Iraq and Syria, including some as
young as seventeen.

Mr Baryalei reportedly intended to have the executions filmed and sent back to
Islamic State's media unit, which would publicly release the footage. The
movement, which Mr Abbott calls a "death cult", has been involved in numerous
filmed beheadings of Western aid workers and journalists in Syria and Iraq.

Police have released scant detail of the 13 men and two women arrested, aside
from Omarjan Azari, 22, who appeared in court on Thursday. Most are believed to
have been from families of Afghan refugees; nine have been released.

Prosecutors said Azari conspired with Mr Baryalei to commit a filmed beheading
of a random member of the public. A phone call discussing the plot was
reportedly intercepted earlier this week.

"We should not for one minute think that this investigation has now reached its
conclusion," said Andrew Colvin, the acting federal police commissioner. "We can
expect to see more activity ... in the coming days, weeks and months."

Without naming Mr Baryalei, Mr Abbott said: "There is one key individual, an
Australian in Syria, operating with [the Islamic State of Iraq and the Levant]
and this particular individual is certainly sending very strong orders back to
his networks of followers here in Australia. That is why the police acted
swiftly and decisively."

Mr Abbott last week committed Australian troops and aircraft to the United Arab
Emirates to prepare for combat against Islamic State in Iraq. He has repeatedly
insisted that the movement is not Islamic, is not religious and is "against
God".

"The absolutely overwhelming majority of Australian Muslims are decent people
who are totally committed to our country," Mr Abbott told Channel Seven.

LOAD-DATE: September 19, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTNS


                  Copyright 2014 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              496 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                       BBC Monitoring Africa - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                          September 20, 2014 Saturday

Kenyan security organs on alert over possible terror attack

LENGTH: 313 words


Text of report by Antony Kaikai entitled "Westgate: Kenya security forces on
high alert" published by state-owned Kenya Broadcasting Corporation (KBC)
website on 20 September

Security officers across the country have been given firm instructions to work
round the clock and intensify vigilance following terror threats by the
Al-Shabab militia.

Inspector General of Police David Kimaiyo says security organs have taken
necessary precautions to avert possible attacks and urged the public to be alert
and volunteer information to the police.

"We've doubled patrols across the country, our response teams and specialized
units will be on standby at all times for any eventuality" the police tweeted.

The warning comes hours before Kenyans mark the first anniversary of the
Westgate mall terror attack that resulted in the death of more than 67 people.

Kimaiyo has further urged private security firms and those manning entertainment
spots and other public places to be extra vigilant and ensure thorough screening
of people entering their premises.

"I ask owners of entertainment facilities to continue updating their security
arrangements and must operate within authorized hours of business. Searching and
frisking patrons in social establishments including shops, supermarkets, hotels
and other areas must be thoroughly done".

Kimayio says the public should also play a key role in enhancing their own
security adding that any information provided to the police will be treated with
the seriousness it deserves.

"I urge members of the public to use emergency numbers, 999 and 112 which are
operational, and they should use them according to necessity" he said.

Kenya has witnessed a series of gun and grenade attacks since deploying its
troops in neighbouring Somalia in 2011 to help oust the Al-Qa'idah-linked
militia Al-Shabab.

Source: KBC Online text website, Nairobi, in English 20 Sep 14

LOAD-DATE: September 20, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2014 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              497 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                              birminghammail.co.uk

                    September 20, 2014 Saturday 2:44 PM GMT

Conservative Party conference terror attack advice - RUN AND HIDE;
Counter-terror experts have issued guidance to those attending the event at the
International Convention Centre in Broad Street

BYLINE: By Mike Lockley

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 516 words


In the event of a terror attack at this month's Conservative Party conference in
Birmingham - RUN!

(And not in the direction of the gunman)

That was the official advice offered by counter-terror experts who held a secret
briefing with Birmingham business bosses last week.

Second on the list handed to the 30-strong gathering of hoteliers and business
bosses was ... HIDE.

Wednesday's meeting, which tackled potential terrorism threats to the party
conference at the ICC, was so secret that the venue has been kept under wraps -
but the advice offered was an eye-opener.

When faced with a firearms attack, said the five Counter Terrorism Security
Advisors, there are simple steps to take.

A report by summit organisers, Broad Street Business Improvement District (BID),
reveals the checklist:

1. RUN - if you can and it is safe to do so. Do not run in the direction of the
attacker. Do not be slowed down by indecision. Leave the building.

2. HIDE - if it is not possible to run. Try to lock yourself in a room and then
barricade yourself in. Turn off your phone and stay silent.

3. HUSH - Turn off your phone and stay silent. Do not try to make any phone
calls until you are out of the building and safe.

4. HELP - When you are safe, provide all the relevant information: a description
of the attacker, a description of the weapon (to the best of your ability),
where you are, who is with you, and the direction the shooter is heading in.

Despite the seemingly obvious nature of the advice, BID boss Mike Olley stressed
that the overall message was vital.

"There are people out there trying to destroy our society, thankfully not many
of them, but they are out there," he said.

The security summit was the third meeting the investment district has staged
with CTSA operatives and the "vital presentation" was specifically aimed at
hotel workers in the run-up to the Tory conference, which kicks off on September
28. The day-long seminar also dealt with Improvised Explosive Devices,
evacuations, suspicious packages and reconnaissance.

The meeting was warned that packages should not be accepted from deliverymen who
refuse to take off their crash helmets. Those present were also urged to look
out for individuals asking questions about security and CCTV, or trying to hide
their faces.

Some edicts did not need to be spelled out, but Mr Olley said the event was
worthwhile.

"If I see something unusual in Broad Street, there is probably something wrong,"
he said.

"If the public see something unusual, such as a suspicious package, they should
make contact with a uniformed officer."

The CTSA outlined steps to be taken when a package or bag is discovered, which
included switching off mobile phones and radios.

"When checking the bag, look for ID," experts warned. "Do not move the item. If
you see anything suspicious in the bag, like nails or a timer, walk away,
evacuate the building and call the police."

BID's report of the meeting states: "Ultimately, the advice was that you as an
employee or owner, know your premises and what's normal of customers. If you
notice anything suspicious, call and report it."

LOAD-DATE: October 10, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBEM


                         Copyright 2014 Trinity Mirror
                              All Rights Reserved

                              498 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                                  Daily Mirror

                          September 20, 2014 Saturday
                                   Edition 1;
                                Northern Ireland

Terror for child as loyalists attacked

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 79 words


A CAVALCADE of cars carrying loyalists backing the Scottish referendum result
made its way up the Shankill Road last night.

The vehicles drove from East to West Belfast flying Saltires and Union flags.

Two cars, one carrying three women and a three-year-old girl, were attacked at
traffic lights in the centre of Belfast by republicans.

When the crowd tried to open the doors of the vehicle containing the child she
went into hysterics but both vehicles were able to drive off.

LOAD-DATE: September 20, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: DRIVEN Loyalist supportersFLYING THE FLAGS Cars on Shankill Road last
night

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DMR


                            Copyright 2014 MGN Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              499 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                    September 20, 2014 Saturday 11:51 AM GMT

Security stepped up at Vatican over fears of terror attack;
Vatican reportedly alerted to threat by foreign security service which
intercepted conversation between two Arab speakers

BYLINE: By Nick Squires Rome

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 524 words


Security in the Vatican has been increased after intelligence agencies
reportedly intercepted an unspecified threat against Pope Francis, on the eve of
his visit to Muslim-majority Albania.

The number of uniformed and plain clothes police patrolling St Peter's Square
during the Pope's weekly audiences on Sunday and Wednesday has been increased,
sniffer dogs are being used and extra metal detector machines have bern
installed, the Italian media reported on Saturday.

The measures were adopted after a foreign intelligence agency, possibly
American, intercepted a conversation between two unidentified Arabs in which
they reportedly discussed 'doing something in the Vatican'.

The Vatican downplayed the threat, with Federico Lombardi, its main spokesman,
saying that it had not received indications of a 'particular threat or cause for
concern.'

Iraq's ambassador to the Holy See warned this week that Isil saw the Pope as a
legitimate target and might try to assassinate him during his trip to Albania,
because of his outspoken concern for the plight of Christians in Iraq and Syria
and his conditional support of US bombing raids against Isil forces.

Jihadists from Isil have in recent weeks boasted of wanting to extend their
caliphate to Rome, the heart of Western Christendom, and have talked of planting
the jihadist black flag on top of St Peter's Basilica.

Habeeb Al Sadr, Iraq's ambassador to the Vatican, said there were also
indications of a more specific threat against Pope Francis, who recently spoke
out in favour of the US and its allies halting the advance of Isil in Syria and
Iraq.

"What has been declared by the self-declared Islamic State is clear - they want
to kill the Pope. The threats against the Pope are credible," the ambassador
told La Nazione, an Italian daily, on Tuesday.

"I believe they could try to kill him during one of his overseas trips or even
in Rome. There are members of Isil who are not Arabs but Canadian, American,
French, British, also Italians.

"Isil could engage any of these to commit a terrorist attack in Europe."

During the Pope's trip to Tirana, the Albanian capital, on Sunday, he will
celebrate Mass in the city's main square and drive around in his open-topped
Popemobile, as usual, Father Lombardi said.

The Pope wanted there to be "no obstacles" between him and the ordinary people
he will encounter.

No extra security measures would be taken for the Albania trip, despite previous
warnings that Albanian jihadists who had returned home from fighting in Syria or
Iraq might be planning an attack.

Vatican security officials are "calm" ahead of the one-day visit, the Rev
Lombardi said.

The trip to Albania is intended to celebrate the rebirth of Christianity after
religious belief was crushed under the Communist rule of Enver Hoxha, and to
demonstrate how Catholics, Orthodox and Muslims live in harmony in the country
of three million people.

Hoxha, a hardline dictator, declared Albania the world's first atheist state in
1967 and allowed the persecution of Catholics.

The Pope's trip to Turkey, which will include events in Ankara and Istanbul, is
expected to take place on Nov 29 and 30.

LOAD-DATE: September 20, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTNS


                  Copyright 2014 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              500 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                  mirror.co.uk

                     September 21, 2014 Sunday 7:11 PM GMT

Labour Parliamentary candidate suspended after calling Israel 'evil' on Twitter;

Vicki Kirby has sparked outrage after questioning why Islamic terrorists ISIS
had not attacked Israel as 'the real oppressors'

BYLINE: By Jenny Stanton

SECTION: NEWS,UK NEWS

LENGTH: 256 words


A Labour Party Parliamentary candidate who questioned why Islamic State (Isis)
had not attacked 'evil' Israel has been suspended

Vicki Kirby, who earlier this month was chosen as Woking Constituency Labour
Party's candidate, caused outrage with a series of tweets slamming Israel.

According to the Sunday Times, the 34-year-old mum-of-two from Surrey, said:
"Apparently you can ask IS/ISIS/ISIL questions on ask.fm. Anyone thought of
asking them why they're not attacking the real oppressors #Israel?"

She is also reported to have commented: "We invented Israel when saving them
from Hitler, who now seems to be their teacher."

Another Tweet read: "I will never forget and I will make sure my kids teach
their children how evil Israel is!"

Paul Blagbrough, chair of Woking Constituency Labour Party, confirmed today Ms
Kirby had been suspended.

He said the Woking branch of the party: is '"meeting early in the week to
discuss what we know and what we need to know".

Ms Kirby sparked a backlash on Twitter, with users condemning her comments.

Vicki Kirby

Vicki Kirby tweet 2

On September 11, Ms Kirby was announced as Woking Labour's parliamentary
candidate.

She was described as a tireless campaigner for disability, educational and
affordable housing issues, and passionate about social justice.

In July, Liberal Democrat MP David Ward was slammed after using Twitter to give
his verdict on the violence rocking the Middle East.

"The big question is - if I lived in Gaza would I fire a rocket? - probably
yes," he tweeted.

Vicki Kirby suspension

LOAD-DATE: September 21, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDMI


                      Copyright 2014 Trinity Mirror, Plc.
                              All Rights Reserved



---- End of Request ----
Download Request: Select Items: 501-1000
Time Of Request: Wednesday, February 21, 2018  23:21:14

