



Download Request: Select Items: 2000 - 2300
Time Of Request: Wednesday, February 21, 2018  22:30:02
Send To:







Terms: terror!


Source: UK Publications
Project ID: None



                               1 of 301 DOCUMENTS

                                  Sunday Mail

                             June 20, 2004, Sunday

US MISSILE STRIKE KILLS 16;
 JET ATTACK ON 'TERRORIST BASE'

BYLINE: ROB MCKAY

SECTION: FIRST Edition; NEWS; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 300 words


AT LEAST 16 people died after a US plane fired missiles into a residential
neighbourhood in Fallujah, Iraq yesterday.

US officials insisted the target was a well-known terrorist hideout in the Sunni
Muslim city.

It was the first significant US military action in Fallujah since Marines ended
a bloody three-week siege against rebels.

Brigadier General Mark Kimmitt, coalition deputy operations chief, said the
attack struck the hideout of terror leader Abu Musab al-Zarqawi.

He claimed the blast caused 'multiple secondary explosions' of ammunition and
roadside bomb materials stored there.

The Iraqi Health Ministry said 16 people had died, though they expected the
number to rise.

Outraged residents accused the Americans of trying to inflict maximum damage by
firing two strikes.

Witness Wissam Ali Hamad said: 'The number of casualties is so high because
after the first missile we jumped to rescue the victims.

'The second missile killed those trying to carry out the rescue.'

US officials said several members of the al-Zarqawi network were believed to be
in the house at the time but they did not know if the terrorist mastermind was
inside.

Al-Zarqawi has been blamed for the string of car bombs across Iraq, including
the attack that killed 35 people and wounded 145 at an Iraqi military recruiting
centre in Baghdad.

Elsewhere, American troops battled rebels northeast of Baghdad for a fourth day
in fighting that has killed at least six Iraqis and one American soldier.

Attackers fired three mortar shells in the west of the city on Saturday,
injuring one policeman and two civilians.

In central Baghdad, a rocket struck a mosque.

In southern Iraq, a roadside bomb killed at least two people, including a
Portuguese security officer.

LOAD-DATE: June 21, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Aftermath: Iraqi police inspect rocket damage to mosque

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

            Copyright 2004 Scottish Daily Record & Sunday Mail Ltd.

                               2 of 301 DOCUMENTS

                                Wales on Sunday

                             June 20, 2004, Sunday

BEHEADING TERROR CELL LINKED TO FATAL ATTACK ON BBC

BYLINE: BY WALES ON SUNDAY

SECTION: North Edition; NEWS; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 197 words


Al qaida militants who beheaded an American hostage in Saudi Arabia may have
been linked to an attack on a BBC crew, it emerged last night.

Saudi authorities confiscated three cars used by the group, including one
believed to have been used in the attack on cameraman Simon Cumbers and security
correspondent Frank Gardner.

Mr Cumbers, 36, was killed in the June 6 attack, and Mr Gardner, 42, was
seriously wounded. They had been filming the house of an al Qaida militant when
they were shot in a southern area of Riyadh.

Photographs of four wanted militants killed in a firefight after decapitating an
American hostage were aired on Saudi Arabian television last night.

The al Qaida cell believed to have been led by Abdulaziz al-Moqrin fulfilled its
threat to kill Paul M Johnson Jr, beheading him and showing the grisly photos on
the Internet on Friday.

US and Saudi officials have insisted al-Moqrin was killed. But that has been
denied on an Islamist website.

Prime Minister Tony Blair last night condemned the beheading as an 'act of
barbarism'.

He added: 'This shows the nature of the people we are fighting day in, day out,
around the world.'

LOAD-DATE: June 21, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Newspaper

                    Copyright 2004 Western Mail and Echo Ltd

                               3 of 301 DOCUMENTS

                                  The Express

                                 June 21, 2004

ATTACK TARGETED TERRORISTS SAY OFFICIALS ATTACK TARGETED TERRORISTS SAY
OFFICIALS ATTACK TARGETED TERRORISTS SAY OFFICIALS; IRAQ PM DEFENDS US MISSILE
STRIKE

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 281 words


AN American missile attack which killed 22 people in Iraq was defended yesterday
by the country's new prime minister.

Iyad Allawi said that a house blasted in the fiercely anti-US town of Fallujah
had been used by terrorists.

He declared: "We welcome a hit on terrorists anywhere in Iraq."

Allawi revealed that the US military had informed his government before carrying
out Saturday's air strike on what it said was a safe house used by militants.

They were said to be led by Abu Musab al-Zarqawi, a Jordanian terrorist
described by the Americans as Al Qaeda's leader in Iraq.

He has also been linked to the beheading of an American worker in Iraq last
month.

A bloody uprising in Fallujah, west of Baghdad, claimed hundreds of lives
earlier this year.

Allawi was speaking after reports suggested the victims of the Fallujah attack
were innocent civilians.

The town's police chief and a senior officer in the Fallujah Brigade, in charge
of security, denied that foreign fighters had operated from the house.

But the brigade's Brigadier Nouri Aboud said: "We inspected the damage. We
examined the bodies of the women and children and elderly. This was a family.

"There is no sign of foreigners having lived in the house.

Zarqawi and his men have no presence in Fallujah."

The US military allowed the Fallujah Brigade, led by former Iraqi army officers,
to take over security in the town under a truce last month. It ended the battles
between US Marines and insurgents after hundreds had been killed.

The latest raid shattered a lull in Fallujah and fuelled tension ahead of the
formal end of Iraq's US-led occupation scheduled for June 30.

LOAD-DATE: June 21, 2004

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Newspaper

                       Copyright 2004 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS

                               4 of 301 DOCUMENTS

                UK Newsquest Regional Press - This is Lancashire

                                 June 21, 2004

Son relives family's arson attack terror

LENGTH: 230 words


A BURNLEY man today relived the moment his home caught fire in an alleged arson
attack.

Andrew Templeton was alerted by his dad Richard at about 6am on Saturday after
his Cog Lane home was set alight.

The 24-year-old who was in the house with his dad and his sister's two children
- Curtis-Lee four and Jamie two - said he had been woken only minutes earlier by
an argument in the street.

He said: "About 10 minutes after that argument my dad shouted up to get the kids
and get out quickly as the house was on fire.

"I just panicked as I didn't know what was going on.

"Me and my dad just picked up the kids and managed to get down the stairs. When
I was coming down the stairs I saw the smoke coming up and it really started to
get in my face. Luckily we managed to get out of the back door."

They family all managed to escape the blaze unharmed through the back door.

Fire officers visited the house on Saturday with a specially-trained sniffer dog
to determine if any accelerants were used to start the fire.

* A man and a woman were arrested by police on Saturday in relation to a
suspected arson.

They were later released on police bail pending further inquiries.

A third person who was arrested later on Saturday has been charged with arson.

The 25-year-old man was due to appear before Burnley magistrates today.

LOAD-DATE: June 21, 2004

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: News

                  Copyright 2004 NewsQuest Media Group Limited

                               5 of 301 DOCUMENTS

                        Western Morning News (Plymouth)

                                 June 24, 2004

Terror attacks hit 21-year high

SECTION: News; Other; Others; Pg. 48

LENGTH: 220 words


Significant acts of terror worldwide reached a 21-year high in 2003, the State
Department announced in Washington. In all, the department recorded 208
incidents of terror last year, compared with 205 in 2002. Americans were victims
in one to 1.5 per cent of all the attacks, and Muslim militants responsible for
most of them.  Oldest veteran dies AUSTRALIA'S oldest surviving First World War
veteran, Ted Smout, has died aged 106. His death in a nursing home in Brisbane
leaves just five veterans of the war still alive in Australia. Mr Smout will be
honoured with a state funeral.

Child poet dead MATTIE Stepanek, the child poet whose inspirational verse made
him a best-selling writer and a prominent voice for muscular dystrophy
sufferers, has died of a rare form of the disease. He was 13 and died at the
Children's National Medical Centre in Washington.

Mummy stolen A CHILD'S mummy more than 3,000 years old and other items have been
stolen from a Pharaonic tomb near Luxor, said a senior antiquity official.

Doris Day honoured DORIS Day said she was honoured to be receiving a
Presidential Medal of Freedom - but the entertainer's fear of flying kept her
from travelling to Washington from California yesterday to accept it from
President Bush. The singer-actress was 80 in April.


LOAD-DATE: June 25, 2004

LANGUAGE: English

                      Copyright 2004 Western Morning News

                               6 of 301 DOCUMENTS

                          THE DAILY TELEGRAPH(LONDON)

                             June 25, 2004, Friday

MPs to move out in terror attack

BYLINE: By George Jones Political Editor

SECTION: News Pg. 02

LENGTH: 416 words

PARLIAMENT will move from Westminster if there is a terrorist attack on the
Commons or Lords under security plans announced yesterday.

A briefing paper issued to all MPs and staff in the Palace of Westminster by Sir
Michael Cummins, the Serjeant at Arms, discloses the plan for the first
evacuation of Parliament for 300 years.

"If, for whatever reason, either or both Houses are unable to sit in their
chambers, alternative locations are planned and available within and outside
London," Sir Michael said. His briefing follows a review of security following
the flour-bomb attack on Tony Blair at Prime Minister's questions last month.

MPs were shocked by the ease with which the protesters from the group Fathers 4
Justice breached Commons security and exposed the vulnerability of Mr Blair and
MPs to a chemical or biological attack by terrorists.

Alternative locations for Parliament in the event of a terrorist strike are not
disclosed. Parliament last sat outside London on March 21 1681. Charles II moved
to Oxford to show his displeasure with the City of London because his
legislation was being opposed.

When the Commons chamber was bombed by the Germans in the Second World War, MPs
moved into the House of Lords.

Sir Michael said the Palace of Westminster had been high on the list of
potential terrorist targets for many years.

Recent security measures include armed police at entrances, concrete blocks to
protect against car and lorry bombs and vehicle barriers. The briefing gives
guidance on how to deal with suspect letters and packages, which could contain
bombs or biological or chemical agents such as anthrax and ricin.

According to Sir Michael the "prompt and correct action of a newly employed
young intern in the Capitol, Washington, saved many lives when, in 2001, a
letter containing high grade anthrax was received and opened by her in a
senator's staff office".

In the event of an incident involving firearms or other weapons, police would
take operational control at Westminster. MPs and staff have been told they would
need to comply immediately with instructions from trained armed officers located
in various strategic areas of the parliamentary buildings.

Police would also be in charge of any chemical or biological attack. Special
measures are to be taken inside the Commons Chamber in the event of another
attack.

Arrangements have been made for the London Fire Brigade and the London Ambulance
Service to decontaminate MPs and their staff.

LOAD-DATE: June 25, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 2004 Telegraph Group Limited

                               7 of 301 DOCUMENTS



                                   The Mirror

                             June 25, 2004, Friday

THE 11-YEAR-OLDS WHO KILLED TWO WALLABIES;
 YOUNGSTERS NAMED FOR TERROR ATTACKS ON ANIMALS AT ZOO

BYLINE: ROD CHAYTOR

SECTION: 3 Star Edition; NEWS; Pg. 19

LENGTH: 315 words

HIGHLIGHT: SHAME: Kieron Anslow, left, and Ryan Jones at Dudley magistrates
court


TWO boys of 11 who terrorised and killed a pair of wallabies then joked about it
with police were named yesterday.

Ryan Jones and Kieron Anslow broke into a zoo compound with a 10-year-old friend
in one attack - then returned two weeks later with a boy aged nine.

In the first raid an adult female broke its foot and had to be put down.

And after the second a baby just out of its mother's pouch died of shock after
they repeatedly dunked it in water because it "needed a bath".

Yesterday a district judge waived the usual right of youth court defendants to
anonymity for Jones and Anslow - to deter them from reoffending.

Judge Michael Morris said: "The behaviour of all three boys is unforgivable.
Peer pressure is no excuse."

He said all three had carried out the raids for fun but it had been "in fact the
most serious form of cruelty".

Both boys of 11 and the 10-year-old, who cannot be named, admitted cruelty to
the animals on April 21. Jones and Anslow admitted a similar charge for the
second raid, caught on CCTV.

The boys climbed over a hut to get in after closing time at Dudley Zoo.

Prosecutor Julia Savage told Dudley youth court, West Mids, they chased the
animals and tried to catch them in boxes, one of which was "spiked".

She said they later laughed about the first wallaby's death with police.

"All three of them found this to be highly amusing," she told the court.

Judge Morris said he was naming Jones and Anslow because he believed they might
reoffend - while he thought the 10-year-old would not. The boy of nine was too
young to face charges.

Anslow's lawyer said the boy was sorry. Jones's solicitor said he had not
intended to kill. Each must pay pounds 450, and the 10-year-old pounds 200, to
the zoo.

All three, of Kates Hill, Dudley, were given 12-month referral orders under
which they must pledge to behave.

LOAD-DATE: June 25, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                            Copyright 2004 MGN Ltd.

                               8 of 301 DOCUMENTS

                UK Newsquest Regional Press - This is Lancashire

                                 June 25, 2004

Machete gang in car terror attack

LENGTH: 140 words


THREE masked carjackers threatened a man with a machete before they stole his
high-performance car.

The 25-year-old victim parked his £24 000 Mitsubishi Evolution at the
Middlebrook Tavern Horwich at 8.30pm on Wednesday when he was approached by
three men in balaclavas.

The car owner was forced to hand over the keys. It is the second carjacking in
the Horwich area in the past two weeks.

Last Tuesday masked raiders broke down the door to a man's home in Holmebrook
Drive Horwich and took keys to an £18 000 Honda Civic Type-R after threatening
him with a hammer.

The victim of Wednesday night's carjacking -- a man from Westhoughton -- was
left shaken by the robbery.

The car was fitted with a tracking device which was activated when it was
reported stolen. It was found abandoned later in Little Hulton.

LOAD-DATE: June 25, 2004

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: News

                  Copyright 2004 NewsQuest Media Group Limited

                               9 of 301 DOCUMENTS

                         The Evening Standard (London)

                                 June 28, 2004

NHS 'not ready for a terror attack'

BYLINE: REBECCA SMITH

SECTION: C; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 155 words


DOCTORS today sent a stark warning to the Government that the NHS is not ready
to cope with a terrorist attack.

They voted " overwhelmingly" to say that planning arrangements within the
service are inadequate, and to demand urgent action.

Dr Kumar Kategaonkar, of Bury, proposed the motion at the the British Medical
Association's annual conference and said: " Terrorism is a reality - politicians
have acknowledged it and the security services have accepted it."

He told the delegates: "You are the frontline staff and what we are doing today
at the BMA conference is to give you a wakeup call. In the NHS, is our emergency
planning ready? Not yet."

Peter Morgan spoke against the motion, saying a lot of work had been done but
some of it had been kept secret out of necessity.

Chairman of the BMA, Dr James Johnson, said: "Quite a lot of work has been done
but it clearly hasn't got there yet."

END

LOAD-DATE: June 29, 2004

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                   Copyright 2004 Associated Newspapers Ltd.

                              10 of 301 DOCUMENTS

                                THE BRISTOL POST

                                 June 30, 2004

Doctors: We would not cope with terror attack

SECTION: News; Health; Doctors; Pg. 73

LENGTH: 516 words


Doctors have voiced fears that the NHS could not cope with a terrorist attack.
The British Medical Association's (BMA) annual conference heard concerns from
doctors that they do not feel prepared to deal with a major chemical, biological
or bombing incident.

Delegates in Llandudno voted in favour of a motion stating "that the emergency
planning arrangements within the NHS are inadequate, and urgent action is
required in the face of imminent terrorist attacks".

Dr Kumar Kotegaonkar, who proposed the motion, said that the Government and
security experts accepted that a terrorist attack was a real possibility.

He said: "When and where it will happen we do not know.

"We are the frontline staff and what we are doing today is to give you a wake-up
call - be ready." Dr Kotegaonkar from Bury, Greater Manchester, said that there
had been too little planning and training among doctors for them to know what to
do in the event of a terrorist attack.

He also spoke about the recent scare in Parliament, in which powder was thrown
at the Prime Minister from the public gallery.

He said: "Just imagine if it had been chemical warfare. It would have been a
catastrophe.

"Preparation for a terrorist attack is not like a fire drill." He said that more
planning and training was needed across all sections of the NHS.

But fellow delegate Dr Peter Holden denied that there was not enough preparation
taking place.

He said the Health Protection Agency (HPA) was doing a lot of work to prepare
NHS staff.

"I have been involved in a lot of training to do with this recently.

"A lot of planning is going on but people don't know about it because people
keep their plans secret." Other speakers ridiculed a simple, four-page flipchart
supplied to doctors which was supposed to help them identify victims of anthrax
and other deadly biological weapons.

In April a survey revealed that most medical staff in Bristol hospitals were not
fully aware of how they should react in the event of a terrorist attack.

A survey among doctors at Frenchay and Southmead hospitals showed some were
unaware of what they were expected to do in the event of a major emergency.

The researchers said the findings suggested other hospitals should review staff
training and knowledge.

North Bristol NHS Trust manages the two large acute hospitals and the survey
targeted doctors who might be part of a mobile medical team expected to help
deal with casualties during a major incident.

The research team, from Frenchay Hospital, sent questionnaires to 107 doctors
and 77 replied.

Seventy of them said they were aware of the major incident plan but just 26 said
they had read part or all of it.

Only 11 of the responding doctors were aware of their potential role in a mobile
medical team and, of these, only three thought themselves adequately trained for
this position.

Last year, a National Audit Office report highlighted deficiencies in NHS plans
to deal with major incidents in England and recommended that training
arrangements should be upgraded.


LOAD-DATE: July 1, 2004 3006BRISEP352docto

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: News

                      Copyright 2004 Bristol United Press

                              11 of 301 DOCUMENTS

                           Coventry Evening Telegraph

                            June 30, 2004, Wednesday

TERROR ATTACK: WE ARE READY;
 NHS BOSS'S PROMISE

SECTION: First Edition; NEWS; Pg. 17

LENGTH: 291 words


HEALTH chiefs in Coventry say the area's hospitals are geared up to cope with a
potential terrorist attack in the region.

Doctors attending the British Medical Association's annual conference in Wales
this week said urgent action was needed to ensure the NHS could cope with
terrorist attacks.

They accused the health service of not being prepared and said the NHS would
struggle in the event of a major domestic terror incident.

However, Martin Lee, medical director for the Coventry and Warwickshire
University Hospitals NHS Trust said: "The trust has a major emergency plan which
is reviewed regularly, and includes contingency plans to deal with all major
emergencies.

"In the event of a major incident we would work in partnership with the
emergency services, other hospitals in the region and GPs and again exercises
are carried out where all emergency services are involved in mock incidents."

During the war in Iraq, hospitals in Coventry were third in line to receive
patients flown in from the conflict to Birmingham Airport.

With the heightened threat of terrorism because of the war in the Gulf, the
trust was subsequently urged by the NHS to review its major incident plans.

The Department of Health said today that millions had been spent preparing the
NHS for such incidents.

A spokesman said: "In 2002/03, the Department of Health allocated pounds 85m to
strengthen national and regional resilience to ensure the NHS is prepared and
equipped to deal with chemical, biological and radiological threats to the
public.

"For 2003/04, the department allocated pounds 98.5 million. That has funded
medical counter-measures such as vaccines, antibiotics and antidotes."

simon.dudman@mrn.co.uk

LOAD-DATE: June 30, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

                   Copyright 2004 Coventry Newspapers Limited

                              12 of 301 DOCUMENTS

                                  Western Mail

                            June 30, 2004, Wednesday

NOXIOUS FUMES FROM OLD TIP 'FELT LIKE A TERROR ATTACK'

BYLINE: BY MARTIN SHIPTON WESTERN MAIL

SECTION: First Edition; NEWS; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 664 words


Noxious fumes from a disused toxic waste tip were so pungent they prompted
hundreds of complaints from residents and passing motorists.

Yesterday the company that is digging up the landfill site at Caerphilly for a
major development said it was flying in a special foam from Australia to deal
with the problem.

But some of those affected by the fumes said they were not convinced the issue
had been handled properly by either the firm concerned or the regulatory
authorities.

Edmund Broadley, of Cilfynydd, near Pontypridd, who was hit by the fumes as he
drove down the A470 towards Cardiff, said, 'It was so horrible that I seriously
thought there could have been a chemical attack by terrorists. My windows and
vents were closed, but the fumes were still able to get inside my car. It was
like ammonia, and it immediately gave me a splitting headache. It felt like all
the oxygen was being taken out of the air.

'I rang the Environment Agency where I was told to contact the council.
Eventually I spoke to someone at Caerphilly Council who told me there had been
over 100 complaints in one day about the fumes. They told me there was no
question of a breach of safety regulations, which surprised me greatly. I've no
doubt this should have been handled much better.'

Diane Davies, who lives near the tip, said, 'As I was driving along I was hit by
these really powerful fumes that made me feel sick. Part of me wanted to stop
the car because I didn't want to carry on driving, but I thought that if I
stopped the car and got out I might pass out.

'When I got home my lungs were filled with the stuff and my taste buds were
affected. It was like a disinfectant and really affected my nerves.'

Julian Rosser, director of Friends of the Earth Cymru, said, 'One of the
problems with incidents of this kind is the split in responsibility between the
regulatory authorities. It sounds as if it has proved more difficult to move
this waste than the developer or the authorities expected.'

A spokesman for Environment Agency Wales said, 'The major responsibility for
monitoring the removal of this hazardous waste rests with the council.
Regulations are about to change, and from July 11 there will be no commercial
landfill sites for hazardous waste left in Wales. The nearest such site to
Caerphilly will be in Gloucestershire.'

The Caerphilly Council cabinet member for the environment, Paul Ford, said, 'The
Castlegate development is taking place at the former Penrhos landfill site.
During the 1950s and 1960s various types of waste were disposed there such as
inert matter and waste from industrial processes including chemical drums.

'The redevelopment of the brownfield site will remediate the contamination
making the land suitable for commercial and housing use.

'Unfortunately the most recent excavations of waste on the site have generated
an odour problem causing a substantial level of complaint from residents in the
vicinity and resulting in the developer ceasing work in the area of concern.

'The local authority are currently in discussions with the developer in an
attempt to mitigate the odour problem, considering different methods of work
before the remainder of the waste is removed.'

David Thursfield, a director of Hirwaun-based Walters UK which has permission to
build nearly 500 houses and various commercial premises on the site of the
former tip, said 150,000 tonnes of material were being moved to the Trecatti
landfill site at Merthyr Tydfil.

'The odour has been caused by a very small proportion of the waste we are
moving, which consists of volatile organic compounds, some of which were in
drums from Monsanto in Newport. The level of hazardous material is one ten
thousandth of the legally acceptable level. We accept that the odour was
unpleasant, which is why we have halted work on that section of the site until
we get a special foam we are flying in from Australia that will suppress the
smell.'

LOAD-DATE: June 30, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Newspaper

                    Copyright 2004 Western Mail and Echo Ltd

                              13 of 301 DOCUMENTS

                              Western Daily Press

                                  July 1, 2004

Risk of terror attacks on ships is slim

SECTION: News; Other; Others; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 126 words


The risk of terrorists seizing ships for an attack is exaggerated, a British
security expert said yesterday. Richard Davey, a consultant for MI5, said
ordinary piracy was a far greater threat to shipping than terrorist attacks.

"The fact that a scenario has been thought of does not mean it is a threat,"
Davey told a security conference in Kuala Lumpur.

The meeting of law enforcement officials, shipping executives and diplomats from
33 nations, comes amid fears that terrorists could attack ships in the Straits
of Malacca, a crucial waterway troubled by pirates.

One-third of the world's trade and half its oil supplies pass through the narrow
waterway between Malaysia and Indonesia, bound for Japan, South Korea and China.


LOAD-DATE: July 2, 2004 0107WESTDP2B2risko

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: News

                      Copyright 2004 Bristol United Press

                              14 of 301 DOCUMENTS

                           Coventry Evening Telegraph

                              July 2, 2004, Friday

WORRY OVER PENSION FUND POUNDS 168M SLUMP;
 SHORTFALL AFTER TERROR ATTACKS LEAVES A PROBLEM FOR COUNCILS OPTIMISTIC:
Director of finance Angie Ridgewell outside the Council House (above) and
(right) Richard Harty; TRUST: Dave Nellist and (above right) Tony O'Neill

SECTION: City Final Edition; NEWS; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 344 words


A TRADE union wants to know more about a pounds 168 million "black hole" in
Coventry City Council's pension fund.

Unison's call comes as it was revealed the West Midlands superannuation fund had
a shortfall of pounds 1.3 billion.

Coventry's share on 31 March this year was pounds 168 million, down from pounds
209 million on the same day in 2003.

Unison branch secretary Richard Harty said: "Clearly there is a big issue. How
are we going to bridge the gap?"

He said the union knew the value of the fund had slumped after the stock market
decline following the September 11 attacks.

But he added: "We need to talk about how it's going to be resolved."

Coventry's director of finance, Angie Ridgewell, said there was time to put it
right, saying: "I anticipate the Stock Market will continue its recovery and
expect to see the deficit will fall over three years. The important thing is we
don't have any panic reactions now."

She said said anyone retiring from the council within the next five years should
have no worries.

Looking further ahead, people retiring in 10-20 years time, like herself, would
have a range of concerns. The normal retirement age might rise from 65 to 70, or
they might have to pay in higher rate of contributions to pensions.

And added: "It's all speculation, though, until the government review of
pensions comes out."

The West Midlands superannuation fund covers the pensions for 196,000 local
authority staff, excluding teachers.

It is reviewed every three years and actuaries will tell councils how much more
they need to put in. The decision of how they find the money rests with the
councils.

Council Socialist leader Dave Nellist said: "It sounds worrying, both for the
former council employees, council staff and council tax payers."

Tory deputy leader Tony O'Neill said: "I have to trust the senior manager at my
financial section, which I do. I have confidence in the people who are handling
this for Coventry. With interest rates going up, the shortfall figure may even
fall."

LOAD-DATE: July 2, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

                   Copyright 2004 Coventry Newspapers Limited

                              15 of 301 DOCUMENTS

                                  The Express

                                  July 2, 2004

AXEMAN HOON 'PUTS US AT RISK OF TERROR ATTACK'

BYLINE: By John Ingham Defence Editor

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 704 words


DEFENCE Secretary Geoff Hoon was accused yesterday of leaving Britain open to
terrorist attack by concentrating on fighting Al Qaeda overseas.

He was "not on top" of preparing British forces for terrorist attacks at home, a
powerful Commons committee has said.

The All-Party Defence Select Committee also warned that his plans to cut forces
and opt for new high-tech warfare could put soldiers' lives at risk unless they
got more training.

In a damning report, the committee, w hich has a Labour majority, said last y
ear's White Paper was "depressingly short on detail" about reducing overstretch
in the armed forces caused by a combination of cutbacks and an unprecedented
number of overseas campaigns.

The committee said planned cuts in the armed forces years before new kit arrived
were "potentially dangerous" and there was "no substitute" for troops on the
ground. It said it was not clear w hether the cuts were driven by financial
pressures or military strategy.

The report came days after the mother of the 60th British soldier killed in Iraq
since the start of the war accused Mr Hoon and Tony Blair of treating her son,
Gordon Gentle, 19, like "a bit of meat".

Mr Hoon is expected shortly to announce plans to scrap about four infantry
battalions, reduce the RAF by up to 8,000 men and axe older destroyers and
frigates.

In return, within about 15 years the military is promised new lighter tanks, two
new 60,000 ton aircraft carriers and a fleet of new Eurofighter Typhoons.

However, the Eurofighter is being delivered late, the carriers are already
falling behind schedule and the Army faces a long wait for the new generation of
light tanks.

The committee said these new tanks remained "a concept which has not even left
the assessment phase".

Committee chairman and Labour MP Bruce George said:"The MoD's whole policy for
the future of our military is based on fighting terrorism at a distance. But
this relies on terrorists agreeing to fight on our terms rather than theirs. If
terrorists decide not to play by our rules, then we will need forces that can
react quickly to threats abroad and at home.

"This will only be possible if troops are properly trained to deal with new
demands that are placed on them.

We are not convinced that the MoD is on top of this problem. " He said "more
imaginative thinking" was needed about how the military could react if
terrorists hit the UK.

He added: "Troops, both regulars and reserves, are already overstretched.

Cutting the number of boots on the ground, ships or aircraft are not sensible
options, particularly when we have no guarantee the new equipment to replace
them will arrive on time or perform as planned."

Liberal Democrat Defence spokesman Paul Keetch said the MoD's priorities were
"badly muddled up".

"This stinging criticism is unprecedented, " he said. "The MoD has neglected to
look after regulars and reservists.

"Instead of increasing numbers to relieve overstretch, the MoD has been
encouraging people who've signed off to leave early. Urgent action is needed to
get all the services back up to strength."

The MPs said any reduction in the Army would be "premature". They said one of
the "greatest weaknesses" in the MoD's future planning was overstretch.

The committee was also highly critical of the MoD's decision to concentrate on
fighting terrorists overseas. It said:

"We are not convinced that an essentially reactive approach to defence of the UK
homeland is satisfactory given the nature of the threat to the UK today.

"The approach of fighting terrorism at distance has informed all of the MoD's
work since September 11 2001, but ultimately assumes that terrorists will agree
to fight on our terms and in places of our choosing.

"As ministers and officials regularly warn, they may bring the campaign closer
to our region, or to the UK itself.

In the context of repeated attacks on the UK, we don't think the MoD's
assumption would be sustainable."

The MoD said work was under way to provide the "appropriate force structure and
affordable equipment" to meet the White Paper's strategy, which would be shaped
by the Chancellor's Spending Review this month.

LOAD-DATE: July 2, 2004

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Newspaper

                       Copyright 2004 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS

                              16 of 301 DOCUMENTS

                          THE DAILY TELEGRAPH(LONDON)

                            July 03, 2004, Saturday

Westerners tagged for terror attacks Fearful expatriates have found their cars
marked out as targets in a kingdom of collective schizophrenia, reports Robin
Gedye in Jeddah

BYLINE: By Robin Gedye

SECTION: News; International: Pg. 13

LENGTH: 1037 words

IT WASN'T until John Denman washed his car and noticed a two-inch strip of black
tape beneath his number plate that he realised why a Toyota had tried to force
him off the road the previous week.

His job, as the only western employee of a Saudi bank, had made him particularly
aware of his high profile and he had taken to driving through Riyadh clad in a
white robe with a red-chequered cloth covering his head.

So when the Toyota fish-tailed in front of him and another car pulled up behind
to try to force him off the road, he could not understand why the disguise had
failed. He just put his foot down and drove for his life.

"I was an idiot not to have noticed it earlier," Mr Denman said. "My car is red
and the tape had been stuck parallel to and just underneath the plate."

In the latest security directive circulating among expatriates, residents are
warned to check cars for dots, stickers and even scrawls in the dust. These
could mark them out for terrorist attack.

Conversation among the rapidly dwindling number of westerners focuses on
security. Rumours and warnings cascade through a network of emails linking those
still remaining with a common obsession: to identify the right moment to get
out.

Compound chat is about the ease with which a sniper could take out the guards,
the lack of credible defence and the infiltration of the security forces by
fundamentalist sympathisers.

Rumours multiply in the absence of reliable information from the secretive
government, desperate to staunch the haemorrhage of western employees.

Attempts to deny that elements in the Saudi security forces sympathise with
terrorist aims ring hollow with Khaled, a Saudi born in England.

Travelling with an English friend last week on the highway out of Jeddah, he was
stopped by a roadside police check.

Khaled said: "I showed my documents and was about to get back in the car when
the policeman pulled me aside. 'Why are you with him?' he asked, nodding towards
my passenger."

Ahmed Mahmoud, a journalist, said: "It is not that they are active terrorists,
but they sympathise with their aims. We are a highly emotional people and the
ordinary man's resentment of the royals for their wealth and corruption is
linked to his hatred of the West as the source of their money."

Fouad, a Saudi academic, was told by an off-duty compound guard that for the
2,000 riyals ( pounds 250) he makes a month he would not risk his life to defend
the western "degenerates" earning 50 times his income. "I'd rather drop my
weapon and run," the guard told him.

Westerners have had stones thrown at their cars as they pass through the poorer
areas of Riyadh and Jeddah and been verbally abused in the shopping malls where
Saudi youths gather. None the less the militants' slaughter of civilians at
home, including Muslims and particularly the beheading of the American Paul
Johnson, has shocked Saudis.

Sahel Yassen, imam of the Prince Sultan Mosque in Jeddah, said: "We are not a
violent people and this is not our way."

Recent spectacular police successes against al-Qa'eda in which some of the
network's senior figures have been killed are due mostly to the change in public
opinion.

Security services are acting on a flood of tips, many of them from the Mabahet,
a network of civilians with ordinary jobs retained by the police to inform on
neighbourhood petty crime.

One western diplomat said: "The tide of information from the public marks a
change in their perception of bin Laden as a Robin Hood figure to the leader of
a franchised terrorist movement that embraces indiscriminate slaughter in
pursuit of raw power."

From talking to his friends, and in the absence of opinion polls, Mahmoud
believes public sympathy for al-Qa'eda has dropped "from 70 per cent a year ago
to around 20 per cent".

Amid a growing awareness that al-Qa'eda is bent on replacing the House of Saud
with a Taliban-style regime, there are even signs of a "brain-drain" among Saudi
liberals. The intelligentsia are booking school places in neighbouring Arab
states and Europe and preparing to follow their children if the situation
deteriorates. Khaled and his wife have bought land in Turkey.

While Saudi Arabia would appear to be among the strictest Islamic nations, a
lifting of the veil reveals something more akin to collective schizophrenia.

It is not only youths in baseball caps and western shops that betray their
double standards (a move to boycott foreign goods during the invasion of Iraq
hardly registered before collapsing completely).

Satellite dishes appear on rooftops despite a ban and western films are devoured
on pirated DVDs in the absence of cinemas. Women envelop themselves in black,
yet teeter on pin-thin stilettos.

The nod and a wink that is the Saudi way of life is anathema to al-Qa'eda. In a
country with unemployment estimated at 30 per cent and a chasm between rich and
poor that al-Qa'eda is exploiting, poverty rather than wealth dictates the pace
of change.

Nowhere are the contrasts and contradictions more glaring than in Jeddah, the
government's summer retreat, where high-walled palaces studding the corniche are
barely out of sight of fly-blown wastelands and streets that bubble with rising
sewage in the winter.

Bin Laden grew up here, in the working-class neighbourhood of Amariyya. His call
to arms - "Death is better than life in humiliation" - was directed at the
palace-dwellers of Jeddah.

In the hills above the port lies Briman sewage lake, barely restrained by
fissure-lined walls. Twenty years ago, the man entrusted with establishing a new
sewerage system absconded with the money. He was never prosecuted because his
brother was private secretary to the king.

In the latest undertaking to solve the problem, Crown Prince Abdullah last week
promised the first pounds 200 million instalment of a pounds 1 billion
reconstruction project.

The stench that occasionally wafts over Jeddah from the sea, into which a
further 100,000 cubic metres of overflow sewage empties daily, cannot be
repelled by palace walls, however high. Like the delay in tackling reform and
terrorism, Jeddah's sewage problem may be addressed only when it impinges on
royalty - too late for many.

LOAD-DATE: July 3, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 2004 Telegraph Group Limited

                              17 of 301 DOCUMENTS

                                 Sunday Express

                                  July 4, 2004

BRITISH FEAR HANGING TYRANT WILL MAKE HIM A MARTYR AND SPARK MORE TERROR
ATTACKS; IRAQI TV 'WILL SCREEN SADDAM'S EXECUTION'

BYLINE: By Tim Shipman Diplomatic Editor

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 39

LENGTH: 591 words


SADDAM HUSSEIN'S expected execution is set to be shown on TV around the world,
sparking fears among British diplomats that it will result in further bomb
attacks by his followers to avenge a martyr.

A British source who has just returned from Iraq has told the Sunday Express
that members of the country's new government want to record the dictator's death
to prove his fate.

Like his trial, Saddam's execution by hanging or firing squad is expected to be
at a secret location. But film of it is almost sure to find its way to TV news
organisations.

British officials are also concerned by a poll in the US showing that more than
six in 10 Americans are in favour of live televised executions - with Saddam
second on their wish list of victims after Osama Bin Laden.

Saddam's defiant, finger-wagging court performance on Friday as the charges
against him were read, and his insistence he is still the President of Iraq, has
already won admiration from his Baath Party supporters.

Iraqi ministers and some Western commanders cannot agree on how best to dampen
down support for the former tyrant, which they fear could lead to bomb attacks
by fanatics.

The British security source said:

"The great likelihood is that Saddam will be found guilty and face death.

They wouldn't show it live on television, the security would have to be tighter
than that, but the people I have spoken to want the execution recorded and it
would be bound to leak out.

"That would not be helpful. They want to avoid the Elvis Presley syndrome, where
Saddam's supporters believe that he is still alive.

"But the downside is that killing him will increase feelings among the
opposition.

"Saddam's performance in the dock was not that of a man who has been cowed.
Defiance was always his trump card and that plays well with certain elements in
Iraq that we do not want to encourage. We have always been opposed to his
execution because it is likely to make him a martyr."

Footage of Saddam's execution would be likely to attract record viewing figures
in the US.

According to the recent poll, more than two-thirds of Americans would be in
favour of televising executions.

Eighteen per cent wanted Saddam's death to be shown, behind Osama Bin Laden at
30 per cent.

Some 46 per cent of those polled said they would watch someone being put to
death and a number said they would pay to see Saddam and Bin Laden being
finished off.

Critics claimed that tuning in could cause deep psychological scarring.

A controversial lawyer preparing to defend Saddam told last night how he fears
for his life.

Giovanni Di Stefano, 49, part of a 20-strong international team, says he is a
friend of the dictator after meeting him in 1998 through a mutual love of
football.

He said: "I do not want to die. I do not support Saddam Hussein, I just
represent him in court."

Mr Di Stefano's previous high-profile clients include "Dr Death" Harold Shipman
and M25 killer Kenneth Noye.

Saddam facing justice and the likely guilty verdict has the power to shake the
entire Middle East region.

It is the first time an Arab dictator has stood trial for the abuses of his
regime, which cost the lives of thousands of Kurds, rival clans and other
political opponents.

Saddam is being held inside the heavily fortified Baghdad airport complex.

He and 11 of his most brutal henchmen stand accused of genocide, war crimes and
crimes against humanity.

Prosecutors have more the 30 tons of documents of evidence against them.

LOAD-DATE: July 5, 2004

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Newspaper

                       Copyright 2004 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS

                              18 of 301 DOCUMENTS

                                  The Express

                                  July 5, 2004

THOUSANDS COULD BE IN THE HANDS OF CRIMINALS, ILLEGAL IMMIGRANTS . . . OR
TERRORISTS WHO PLAN TO ATTACK US; 800 BRITISH PASSPORTS STOLEN EVERY DAY

BYLINE: By James Slack Home Affairs Correspondent

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 475 words


THOUSANDS of stolen passports may be in the hands of criminals, illegal
immigrants or terrorists planning attacks on Britain.

Shock figures show that more than 800 of the documents are stolen or go missing
every day.

Leading MPs warn that they could be falling into the possession of villains -
and the Government admits that it has no idea how many bogus passports are in
circulation.

Liberal Democrat Home Affairs spokesman Mark Oaten, who uncovered the startling
figures with a series of Parliamentary questions, declared that passport
security had "disintegrated".

He added: "Neither the Passport Office nor the Royal Mail has been able to cope
with the new phenomenon of organised identity theft.

"Many documents may simply have gone missing but many others will have fallen
into the hands of criminals and terrorists."

The trade in stolen passports is one of the most lucrative crime rackets in
Britain. They are sold for up to GBP 10,000 each.

Last year two Algerian illegal immigrants, jailed for supplying services to Al
Qaeda, had provided terrorists with false passports.

The pair were arrested in Leicester two weeks after the September 11 attacks and
were given sentences of 11 years.

UK Passport Service figures show that 184,301 passports were recorded as being
lost, stolen or "unavailable" in 2003.

During the first three months of this year, the total was 73,451 - more than 800
every day.

Poor security was exposed last month when Special Mail services, the company
charged with delivering passports, admitted that 70 were stolen from its Runcorn
depot.

Last year the Royal Mail lost 3,593 passports "in the post, " ministers have
admitted. The total has been reduced this year to 188 passports following the
introduction of a new "secure post" system. The new regime has helped force up
the cost of a passport by 30 per cent, to GBP 42.

Immigration minister Des Browne said the secure system was paying off but he
admitted that the Government had no estimate of the number of fake passports now
being used by criminals.

Mr Browne insisted:

"The fraudulent use of travel documentation, including forged or counterfeit
visas, is a serious global problem."

A total of 7,985 suspect travel documents were seized at British airports, ports
and the Channel Tunnel last year.

More than half were forged or altered. Some 1,198 were completely counterfeit
and 2,156 were in the hands of "impostors".

A further 724 forged or altered documents were detected within the UK by
immigration enforcement officers.

Some 837 forged, counterfeit or fraudulently obtained documents were submitted
to the Home Office with requests for asylum in Britain.

Mr Browne revealed that the Immigration and Nationality Directorate now had a
special section which was fighting document fraud.

LOAD-DATE: July 5, 2004

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Newspaper

                       Copyright 2004 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS

                              19 of 301 DOCUMENTS

                          THE DAILY TELEGRAPH(LONDON)

                             July 06, 2004, Tuesday

Men behind Iraq suicide bombs revealed Most wanted terrorist releases a chilling
video of his attack squads and their missions. Anton La Guardia, Diplomatic
Editor, reports

BYLINE: by Anton La Guardia

SECTION: News; International: Pg. 11

LENGTH: 550 words

ABU MUSAB al-Zarqawi, the most wanted terrorist in Iraq, has staked his claim to
lead the jihad against the American presence by releasing a slickly-produced
video of suicide bombers and several of their attacks.

The hour-long production is part political manifesto, part recruiting campaign
and part propaganda to tell America that its intense efforts to find the
Jordanian-born militant leader have failed.

In the latest raids, a US aircraft bombed a house in Fallujah yesterday, killing
at least 12 people. The Americans said it was a terrorist safe house.

The video released by Zarqawi's group chronicles what are supposedly the final
days and hours of the suicide bombers as they prepare themselves for "martyrdom
operations".

There are scenes of them praying, relaxing and reading out final statements.
"How can I live peacefully at a time when the holy and sacred places have been
violated and the country is usurped and the infidels are encroaching on our
country and humiliating our religion?" asks one purported bomber, as armed,
masked men stand behind him.

"How can I live, and others live, while our sisters are prisoners of the
Americans in Iraq?"

One scene in the video records cars passing quietly across a bridge, followed by
an explosion that sends up a large fireball.

Others are said to include the attack on General Electric contractors in Baghdad
on June 14, in which the bomber explains that "the doors of hell have been
opened to receive the infidels".

The video also appears to show the May 17 suicide car bombing that killed the
president of the now-defunct Iraqi Governing Council, Izzedine Saleem. The
footage, taken from a parked car, shows a convoy of white four-wheel-drive cars
disappearing down a Baghdad street, followed a moment later by a ball of flame
and an explosion which cracks the windscreen of the cameraman's car.

In recording the bombings, Zarqawi's organisation, Tawhid wal Jihad (Unity and
Holy War), shows it knows how to manipulate the western media. The footage was
given to Time magazine's Baghdad bureau chief, Michael Ware, by men reported to
be in close contact with Zarqawi's network.

Ware said the video "is a very, very sophisticated part of Zarqawi's information
campaign, stamping him as the star of the new global jihad inspired by Osama bin
Laden". The US blames Zarqawi for 30 attacks, including the bombing of the
United Nations headquarters last year that killed 22 people, including the UN
special envoy, Sergio Vieira de Mello. But, while Zarqawi's presence in Iraq
before the war is seized upon by the Bush administration as proof of a link
between Saddam Hussein and international terrorism, Peter Bergen, an expert on
al-Qa'eda at the New America Foundation, argues that the connection to Saddam is
tenuous.

He also says Zarqawi is as much a rival of bin Laden as a devotee, pointing out
that Zarqawi had his own training camps in Afghanistan and that bin Laden has
not echoed Zarqawi's call for a campaign of sectarian violence against Shia
Muslims. Whether he acts in co-operation or in competition with al-Qa'eda,
Washington has elevated Zarqawi to the same status as bin Laden.

It has raised the reward for his capture from $10 million ( pounds 5.6 million)
to $25 million - the same as bin Laden.

LOAD-DATE: July 6, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 2004 Telegraph Group Limited

                              20 of 301 DOCUMENTS

                            Herald Express (Torquay)

                                 July 10, 2004

Terror attack on girl aged 12

SECTION: News; 999; Sexcrime; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 199 words


The brave youngster managed to fight off her attacker and get away.  Now police
officers are appealing for help from any passing motorists who may have spotted
the man in the Church Road area of Kingsbridge last Friday night.

The incident, just reported to police, happened as the schoolgirl was walking up
Church Street from the direction of the Regal Social Club at around 9.45pm.

A man grabbed her from behind and dragged her into a darkened lane that runs off
Church Street near Dodbrooke Church.

He pushed her to the ground but the frightened girl managed to get free and
escape, explained Totnes detective Ian Jacobson.

He added: "We are very concerned about this assault. Luckily the young girl was
unhurt but is still very shaken.

"We are appealing for information from anybody in the area at that time,
especially car drivers who may have been travelling down Church Street because
their car headlights may have illuminated the lane and they may has seen
something important." The man is described as white, in his 30s with short hair
wearing a black "hoody" and jeans. Anyone who can help should contact the police
quoting log number 498 of July 9.


LOAD-DATE: July 11, 2004

LANGUAGE: English

                    Copyright 2004 Herald Express (Torquay)

                              21 of 301 DOCUMENTS

                               Belfast Telegraph

                                 July 12, 2004

Commons terror attack warning

BYLINE: By Brian Walker, London Editor brian.walker@belfasttelegraph.co.uk

LENGTH: 243 words


SECURITY chiefs are terrified that Big Ben might collapse on top of the House of
Commons in the event of a terrorist attack on Parliament, says a major review of
security at Westminster.

They're also worried that concrete blocks placed around the Palace to prevent
suicide bombers crashing into the Palace could turn into lethal flying bombs.

In the second probe into security in under a year, the latest review by MI5 and
police was launched following a purple flour bomb attack by fathers' rights
protestors on Tony Blair during Prime Minister's Questions in May.

It now recommends replacing the concrete blocks by "a ring of steel".

MPs generally support tighter security around Parliament's perimeter and the
appointment of a fully professional director of security.

But many resent restricting public access when inside the building and the
erection of more screens in the Commons' gallery.

MI5 was also opening new bases throughout England in areas where Muslim
militants are active, according to The Times.

Surveillance officers are being placed in areas such as the west Midlands and
the north west of England for a pilot scheme in the coming months.

The Director of Public Prosecutions for England and Wales, Ken McDonald, has
also said there is "a very strong case" for extending the time that terrorists
can be held without charge and for offering them immunity from prosecution in
return for information.


LOAD-DATE: July 12, 2004

LANGUAGE: English

TYPE: Paper

                Copyright 2004 Belfast Telegraph Newspapers Ltd.

                              22 of 301 DOCUMENTS

                            Birmingham Evening Mail

                             July 13, 2004, Tuesday

ARSON ATTACK TERROR

BYLINE: TONY DEELEY

SECTION: BC1 Edition; NEWS; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 151 words


LIVES were put at risk when arsonists melted a water pipe, flooding homes and
plunging families into darkness. Fifteen firefighters spent two hours tackling a
blaze, which was started in rubbish in a corridor above shops in Bell Street
South, Brierley Hill, just before midnight.

They led four people to safety, broke into flats to ensure no-one was trapped
inside and climbed a ladder to get into another flat and calm down a terrified
tenant.

Police and fire experts today launched an investigation into the blaze.

Station Officer Geoff Smith, of Brierley Hill fire station, said the fire spread
to a false ceiling above the corridor.

Electric cables were damaged and a plastic water pipe melted, flooding the
building. 'We had to cut off the power because of the danger.

'The fire was clearly started deliberately. It was extremely dangerous and
risked the safety of tenants.'

LOAD-DATE: July 14, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

               Copyright 2004 Midland Independent Newspapers plc

                              23 of 301 DOCUMENTS

                     The Guardian (London) - Final Edition

                                 July 13, 2004

Terror attack 'could delay US election'

BYLINE: Julian Borger in Washington

SECTION: Guardian Foreign Pages, Pg. 11

LENGTH: 519 words


American officials are discussing the possibility of postponing November's
presidential election, for the first time in US history, in the event of a
devastating terrorist attack, it emerged yesterday.

A spokesman for the homeland security department said the possibility of a
postponement in extreme circumstances was being contemplated, four days after
the department warned that al-Qaida was plotting a large-scale attack aimed at
disrupting the November 2 election.

However, the justice department, whose office of legal counsel would normally
consider such issues, said it had not been consulted.

"No letter has been sent and no request has been received," a spokesman said
yesterday.

A primary election in New York scheduled for September 11 2001 was quickly
postponed by the state's election board after hijacked planes hit the World
Trade Centre that day.

However, the US election assistance commission noted that "the federal
government has no agency that has the statutory authority to cancel and
reschedule a federal election", according to a letter to Tom Ridge, the homeland
security secretary, published by Newsweek magazine.

Some legal experts argued that bestowing that power on an official or body would
certainly require a constitutional amendment. However, Todd Peterson, a law
professor at George Washington University, said that Congress already has that
power.

"My sense is that it wouldn't need a constitutional amendment," he said.
"Congress has pretty clear constitutional authority to determine the timing both
of the presidential and congressional elections."

In the middle of a bitter and close presidential race, and after the legal
wrangling that ultimately led to George Bush's disputed victory in 2000, the
mere mention of the possibility of a postponement was enough to spark
controversy.

"I don't think there's an argument that can be made, for the first time in our
history, to delay an election," said Dianne Feinstein of California, a
Democratic member of the Senate intelligence committee. "We hold elections in
the mid dle of war, in the middle of earthquakes, in the middle of whatever it
takes."

However, some observers argued that it was part of the homeland security
department's job to consider ways of ensuring the continuity of government after
an attack.

Juliette Kayyem, an expert on terrorism and the law at Harvard University, said:
"It's very consistent with the continuity of government plan. But my legal sense
is that it would not be easy to postpone a federal election."

Ms Kayyem believed only a catastrophic attack, such as a nuclear assault, on
Washington itself would justify a nationwide postponement.

* Mr Bush yesterday defended his decision to go to war in Iraq, saying Saddam
Hussein had posed a serious threat to the US, despite a Senate report last week
which found that prewar intelligence suggesting Iraq had weapons of mass
destruction had been wrong.

He said: "We removed a declared enemy of America who had the capability of
producing weapons of mass murder."

guardian.co.uk/uselections


LOAD-DATE: July 13, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 2004 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              24 of 301 DOCUMENTS

                         The Evening Standard (London)

                                 July 14, 2004

Soccer summit on terror attack threat

BYLINE: PATRICK MCGOWAN

SECTION: A; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 221 words


THE DANGER of a chemical or biological attack at a major football ground is
being tackled at a "terror summit" today.

Representatives from Arsenal and Coventry City are among those meeting police
and firefighters at Stoke City's Britannia stadium to discuss the threat.

Malcolm Millichip, emergency planning consultant to Stoke City Council, who
organised the summit, said clubs need contingency plans against possible
chemical attack.

"Why attack a military installation when you can attack a sports stadium?"

he said. "Clubs need to carry out a risk assessment."

Most football grounds are designed for rapid evacuation.

and in the case of the Britannia Stadium - which can hold 28,000 spectators -
this can be achieved in eight minutes.

. At least seven people, all believed to be Iraqis, were killed in a suspected
car bomb blast in central Baghdad today Witnesses said two cars approached a
checkpoint in an area housing the US and British embassies, with one exploding
as guards approached it.

. Islamic militants have executed a Bulgarian truck driver taken hostage in Iraq
while travelling to Mosul.

Jordanian militants said in a video broadcast on Arab television station
Al-Jazeera they had killed Georgi Lazov, 30, and were planning to execute a
fellow hostage within 24 hours.

LOAD-DATE: July 15, 2004

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                   Copyright 2004 Associated Newspapers Ltd.

                              25 of 301 DOCUMENTS



                                   Broadcast

                             July 15, 2004 Thursday

C4 probes 9/11 terror attacks

SECTION: ARTICLE; Commissioning

LENGTH: 251  words



HIGHLIGHT: Conspiracy theories surrounding the September 11 attacks will be put
to the test in an investigative documentary for Channel 4.


Conspiracy theories surrounding the September 11 attacks will be put to the test
in an investigative documentary for Channel 4.The 60-minute working-titled
Dark Truths , to be made by Mentorn Oxford, has been commissioned to air around
the time of the disaster's third anniversary.The film will examine a number of
conspiracy theories, including whether al-Qaida could have used its prior
knowledge of the World Trade Center attack to profit from the ensuing stock
market collapse.It will also look at whether the Bush administration ignored
warnings of the attack in the belief that a "new Pearl Harbor" would kickstart a
fresh round of American economic and military expansionism and provide
justification for the Iraq war.A Mentorn spokesman said: "The conspiracy
theories range from plausible to beyond belief and the documentary investigates
who's peddling them, the hidden truths they conceal and why some are not as daft
as you'd think."The documentary, which was commissioned by C4 head of news and
current affairs Dorothy Byrne, will be produced and directed by Polly Morland
and Frank Simmonds and executive produced by Eamonn Matthews.Mentorn is also
making a drama documentary for C4 about the 9/11 attacks that will also air in
September. The 90-minute      Hamburg Cell , ordered by head of documentaries
Peter Dale, will look at the al-Qaida terrorists' time in Germany before
September 11. It is being written by Ronan Bennett and is executive produced by
David Aukin and George Carey.

LOAD-DATE: July 15, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Magazine

JOURNAL-CODE: Broadcast


                            Copyright 2004 Emap Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                              26 of 301 DOCUMENTS

                            Birmingham Evening Mail

                             July 16, 2004, Friday

CITY TERROR ALERT;
 ...BUT SUICIDE ATTACK IS ONLY A TEST

BYLINE: JANE TYLER

SECTION: First Edition; NEWS; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 269 words


A MAJOR city attraction will be attacked by terrorists this weekend - but it's
all with the approval of the police.

Suicide terrorists will spray poisonous gas into the crowded venue, resulting in
at least 400 casualties.

Exercise Horizon will take place on Sunday to see how the region responds to a
bio-terror attack. Organisers are not revealing the location until the day
itself to ensure 999 crews are caught unawares.

It will involve 2,000 members of the emergency services, local authorities,
hospitals and other key organisations.

The volunteer casualties - made up of members of the Army and Red Cross - will
be asked to strip off their clothes and go through decontamination shower units.

But because it is an exercise they will be allowed to wear swimsuits to preserve
their modesty.

Around 30 more volunteers will later turn up at hospitals as 'self presenters'
to test medics' response.

Helen Braithwaite, Deputy Director of the Regional Resilience Team, the
Government organisation co-ordinating the incident, said people should not
worry.

'This exercise is not in response to any specific threat, but part of an ongoing
programme throughout the West Midlands - and the UK as a whole - to ensure
coordination of resources and communication between the different
organisations,' she said.

'Exercise Horizon is probably the largest civilian exercise of its kind in the
UK so far.'

She added that although the threat from terrorism was 'real and serious', the
public should remain alert but not alarmed.

'These exercises ensure we are prepared,' she said.

LOAD-DATE: July 16, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

               Copyright 2004 Midland Independent Newspapers plc

                              27 of 301 DOCUMENTS

                           Coventry Evening Telegraph

                             July 16, 2004, Friday

FIRE UNION ROW OVER STAGED TERRORIST ATTACK

SECTION: City Final Edition; NEWS; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 204 words


FIRE union bosses were today embroiled in a fresh row over the largest mock
terrorist attack in the UK to be staged in the West Midlands.

Emergency services in Coventry and Warwickshire will be called to deal with a
major poison attack on Sunday, simulating a nerve gas atack at an arts
exhibition.

But the West Midlands branch of the Fire Brigade's Union (FBU) says its members
are being "bullied" into taking part in the event, involving 2,000 personnel.

Tony Nutting, secretary of the West Midlands FBU, said it wasn't appropriate for
firefighters to take part because pay deals agreed last year have not been
implemented.

He said firefighters were awaiting a 3.5 per cent pay rise from November last
year and a further 4.2 per cent deal effective from July 1.

Mr Nutting said more than 300 West Midlands firefighters were due to take part
in the operation but members had "major concerns".

He claimed firefighters, including those on annual leave, had been contacted by
the brigade about taking part and threatened with suspension if they refuse.

Assistant chief fire officer Robert Hulland said the service had not issued a
direct order to attend the but expected firefighters to attend.

LOAD-DATE: July 16, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

                   Copyright 2004 Coventry Newspapers Limited

                              28 of 301 DOCUMENTS

                              DAILY MAIL (London)

                                 July 16, 2004

Terror in the deep as diver is attacked by giant conger eel

BYLINE: LOUISE WARD

SECTION: ED_SC1; Pg. 44

LENGTH: 635 words



A SCOTS scuba diver has suffered a horrific underwater attack by a giant conger
eel.

George Telfer, 43, was exploring a World War I wreck when the monster sank its
razorsharp teeth into him.

The experienced diver had been peering through a hatch in the vessel on
Wednesday morning when he spotted a lobster inside.

But as he reached in to grab the lobster, which he planned to take back to the
surface for lunch, the eel grabbed his hand.

Mr Telfer, who discovered the vessel three months ago off St Andrews, was
battered against the side of the boat as the eel tugged at his arm, trying to
pull him through the hatch into the hull. He was left with bite marks on his
hands and a bruised face.

He said: 'I was going along the wreck when I saw this lobster, which I quite
fancied for my lunch.

'I stuck my right hand in to get it, then I felt a bite which I realised wasn't
the lobster.

' I could feel the blood gush immediately after the conger sank its teeth
through the diving glove and into my hand.

'My natural reaction was to pull my hand back, so it really locked on and
battered my face off the side of the boat, trying to pull me in through the
hatch.

' I would say conger eels are about 30 times stronger than humans and they have
a fierce grip. I was lucky it didn't break my fingers.

'I couldn't get my hand out of its mouth, so with my free hand I made a grab for
its throat.

'Panic is the last thing you want to do in that situation. All that was going
through my mind was that I didn't want to have to use my knife on it.

'I didn't have time to check how badly I was bleeding when I was struggling with
the eel but I knew I was hurt.

'Because you are in cold water you don't feel any pain, but when I got back up
to the boat there was quite a bit of blood and some of the skin on my hand had
been torn away. ' Mr Telfer believes he upset the eel by trying to grab the
lobster for his lunch.

The artificial grass manufacturer from Carnoustie in Angus said: 'It was a
battle to see who would get that lobster and I definitely lost.

'They are in an attacking mood when they are feeding and I probably upset it by
sticking my hand into its house.' Despite his ordeal, the Tayside Scottish Sub
Aqua Club diving officer said that he still thought of conger eels as '
beautiful creatures'.

But he added: 'They are also quite ominous. I would say the majority of divers
are wary of them.

' But I wouldn't want people to think that they are nasty creatures.

'I think this one got more of a fright than me. After it let go of my hand, all
I could think was that I wanted it to come back so I could apologise for
intruding in its house.' In August last year, an angler was swept out to sea and
drowned after hooking a conger eel during a fishing contest in south-west
Scotland.

Albert Marshall, a 43-year- old farm labourer, was fishing on an outcrop of rock
known as Fox's Snout in Kirkcudbright Bay when he hooked the eel, lost his
balance and fell into the sea.

Conger eels can grow up to 10ft long and weigh up to 250lb and are common in
coastal waters around Scotland. There are eight species found here, but the eel
that attacked Mr Telfer was probably the conger oceanicus, the largest type
found in Scottish waters.

Mr Telfer, who has been married to wife Mandy Louise, 43, for more than 20
years, said: 'Mandy understands this is what I am happiest doing.

'I have more than 2,500 dives under my belt and she knows I will not do anything
silly underwater.' Mr Telfer's previous diving exploits include the discovery
three years ago of a possible sixthcentury shipwreck in Loch Fyne.

Experts believe the wreck could be the most important naval find since the Mary
Rose, which it would predate by 1,000 years.

LOAD-DATE: July 21, 2004

LANGUAGE: English

GRAPHIC: UNDERSEA HORROR: GEORGE TELFER, ABOVE AND BELOW, WAS ATTACKED WHILE
EXPLORING A WRECK

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                   Copyright 2004 Associated Newspapers Ltd.

                              29 of 301 DOCUMENTS

                            Evening Times (Glasgow)

                                 July 16, 2004

Terror attack test for emergency crews

SECTION: Pg. 6

LENGTH: 192 words


PLANS to stage the largest simulated terrorist attack ever

held in the UK were announced today by Government emergency planners.

More than 2000 ambulance, fire and police officers from around

the West Midlands will tackle a staged poison gas attack at a major public venue
in the region this Sunday.

Officials want to test the ability of emergency services to co-operate in
response to a major chemical, biological, radiological or nuclear threat.

Some 400 volunteer "casualties" from the Army and Red Cross will be contaminated
during Exercise Horizon, which will last from 8am until 4pm.

Casualties will undergo a decontamination procedure, which involves having their
clothes cut off and entering a special disinfecting shower, with the more
seriously injured rushed to hospital.

The latest simulated terror attack follows

a mock chemical

attack on the London Underground in September last year when hundreds of people
were evacuated from Bank station in the City.

Since then there have been similar exercises at several places around the
country, including Newcastle-upon-

Tyne and Abingdon, Oxfordshire.

LOAD-DATE: July 17, 2004

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                Copyright 2004 Scottish Media Newspapers Limited

                              30 of 301 DOCUMENTS



                                   The Mirror

                             July 16, 2004, Friday

TERRORIST ATTACK IS 999 TEST

SECTION: 3 Star Edition; NEWS; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 119 words

HIGHLIGHT: SUITS: Officer


THE country's largest mock terror attack is to take place at the weekend to test
the response of emergency services.

More than 2,000 ambulance crews, firefighters and police officers will tackle a
staged poison gas attack on Sunday.

Officials want to test the ability of 999 services in the West Midlands in the
event of a major chemical threat.

The exact location is being kept secret.

About 400 volunteer casualties will take part in Exercise Horizon.

Some will have their clothes cut off before being made to wash in a disinfecting
shower.

Government official Helen Braithwaite, who is organising the event, said: "It is
sensible contingency planning for any contamination incident."

LOAD-DATE: July 16, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                            Copyright 2004 MGN Ltd.

                              31 of 301 DOCUMENTS

                            Evening Times (Glasgow)

                                 July 17, 2004

'Terror attack' sparks bitter war of words;Plan for nerve gas exercise leaves
fire union and bosses at loggerheads

SECTION: Pg. 8

LENGTH: 437 words


A ROW has broken out between fire chiefs and staff over the largest mock
terrorist attack to be staged in the UK.

The West Midlands brigade is due to join 2000 emergency services colleagues from
all over the region tomorrow for a simulated nerve gas attack at an arts
exhibition.

But Fire Brigades Union chiefs have accused senior officers of using "bully boy
tactics" to force workers to attend while a pay deal dispute is deadlocked.

The West Midlands branch of the Fire Brigades Union has told members it would be
"inappropriate" for them to take part in the exercise because pay deals agreed
last year have not been implemented.

Phil Goalby, chairman of the region's FBU, said firefighters were awaiting a
3.5% pay increase due to take effect last November and a 4.2% deal effective
from July 1.

The deadlock has led union bosses to advise members to withdraw from other
agreements, which include tomorrow's exercise.

Mr Goalby hit out at the brigade which has instructed firefighters they must
turn out for the staged emergency.

He said: "In view of the fact that we told our members that we thought it was
inappropriate to take part in this exercise, they sent out a letter to all
people who are on duty on Sunday stating that, should anyone refuse to take part
in this exercise, they may be sent home without pay.

"This seems totally inappropriate and, to be quite frank, bully boy tactics."

Deputy Chief Fire Officer Vijith Randeniya said the FBU had sent out mixed
messages to members by telling them it was inappropriate to attend the exercise
without instructing them to boycott it.

Mr Randeniya said: "To be fair to our staff, we have written to them explaining
what we believe to be the current position and explaining also that we do expect
them to turn up for work.

"We believe that the community have a right to expect that, when the fire
service are called, they will attend and

provide an effective service."

The exercise is designed to test the response of fire, police and ambulance
personnel from forces in the West Midlands, Herefordshire, Staffordshire,
Shropshire, Warwickshire and Worcestershire to a major chemical,

biological, radiological or nuclear threat.

Exercise Horizon will involve terrorists spraying toxic gas into an arts
exhibition attended by hundreds of visitors.

Around 400 volunteer "casualties" from the Army and Red Cross will "be
contaminated" during the exercise, which will last from 8am until 4pm.

The latest simulated terrorist atrocity follows a mock chemical attack on the
London Underground last September.

LOAD-DATE: July 17, 2004

LANGUAGE: English

GRAPHIC: TERROR REHEARSAL: thousands of people are expected to have a role in
tomorrow's exercise

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                Copyright 2004 Scottish Media Newspapers Limited

                              32 of 301 DOCUMENTS

                                  Morning Star

                                 July 17, 2004

Firefighters attack bosses over terror mock-up;

SECTION:  Pg. 9

LENGTH: 295 words


ANGRY firefighters accused West Midlands fire chiefs of "bully boy" tactics
yesterday after they threatened to dock workers' pay for refusing to attend a
mock terror attack.

The local Fire Brigades Union branch has advised members not to take part in the
huge "dummy run" tomorrow, as last year's pay deal has still not been
implemented.

In response, bosses declared that they will lose a day's pay, declaring that "we
do expect them to turn up for work."

The West Midlands brigade was due to join 2,000 emergency service colleagues
from all over the region for the terror simulation - a nerve gas attack at an
arts exhibition.

But West Midlands FBU chairman Phil Goalby said that it would be "inappropriate"
for members to take part in the exercise while their dispute continued.

Fire chiefs then sent out a letter to all workers due to be working tomorrow,
warning that, "should anyone refuse to take part in this exercise, they may be
sent home without pay, " Mr Goalby revealed.

"This seems totally inappropriate and, to be quite frank, bully boy tactics, "
he added.

Under the terms of the union's current dispute with fire chiefs, workers are
allowed to boycott any tasks outside normal working practices - including
tomorrow's mock attack.

Exercise Horizon will be the largest such exercise ever staged in Britain, in a
bid to prepare the emergency services for a deadly terrorist offensive on a
civilian target.

Terrorists will spray toxic gas into an arts exhibition attended by hundreds of
visitors, who will then undergo decontamination at the site in specialist
showers.

Tomorrow's event follows a mock chemical attack on London Underground last
September, when hundreds of people were evacuated from Bank station.

LOAD-DATE: July 28, 2004

               Copyright 2004 People's Press Printing Society Ltd

                              33 of 301 DOCUMENTS

                             The News of the World

                                 July 18, 2004

'TERRORIST' ATTACK DAY

LENGTH: 69 words


    A MOCK terror attack will take place at a secret venue today-to test
emergency services.

    The staged poison gas attack will allow ambulance, fire and police officers
to see if they are fully prepared for the real thing.

    Exercise Horizon will use 400 volunteer "casualties" from the Army and Red
Cross.

    They will undergo decontamination and the more seriously injured will be
taken to hospitals.


LOAD-DATE: July 20, 2004

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Newspaper

                    Copyright 2004 NEWS GROUP NEWSPAPERS LTD

                              34 of 301 DOCUMENTS

                                  The Observer

                                 July 18, 2004

Germany to drop 9/11 plot charges: Evidence against only man jailed for terror
attack 'weak'

BYLINE: David Rose Hamburg

SECTION: Observer News Pages, Pg. 18

LENGTH: 572 words


GERMAN prosecutors are preparing to drop all the most serious charges against
the only man convicted for the 11 September attacks, because they fear that
crucial American evidence was obtained by torturing detainees.

The case is set to deepen further the rift between Germany and the United
States, which accused the Germans of failing to act against terror when it first
emerged three of the hijacking pilots had lived in Hamburg. 'No doubt they will
complain bitterly,' a German anti-terrorist official said yesterday. 'Let us say
we have different views on how to handle this problem.'

Mounir Motassadeq, 29, an alleged member of al-Qaeda's Hamburg cell based around
hijack leader Mohamed Atta's apartment, admitted going to a training camp in
Afghan-istan, signing Atta's will and transferring thousands of dollars to
accounts controlled by Ramzi Binalshibh, one of the plot's main planners.

But an appeals court quashed his original conviction and 15-year sentence last
April on the ground that he should have had access to statements Binalshibh made
to US interrogators after his capture in Pakistan.

Motassadeq claimed that Binalshibh's statements, which the Americans were
refusing to make available, would have confirmed he knew nothing of the 9/11
conspiracy. The appeal judges said without testimony from Binalshibh or the
plot's mastermind, Khalid Shaikh Mohammed, the case that Motassadeq was an
active conspirator was weak. His retrial starts next month.

A senior German intelligence official told The Observer that, although the US
Justice Department has now supplied the interrogation records, they would be
virtually useless in their present state. 'They contain no details as to where
Binalshibh and Mohamed were questioned, nor whether torture or other forms of
force were used to make them talk,' he said. 'Their contents may be information
and they may be disinformation.'

After the recent publication of photographs of Iraqi prisoners being tortured at
Abu Ghraib, and the admission by the US administration that a range of coercive
methods were authorised for inter rogators in the war on terror, a German court
would need firm evidence that the statements were truly voluntary, the official
went on.

He said the German authorities were now resigned to dropping the charge that
Motassadeq was involved in 9/11, and would have to settle for trying to convict
him of membership of a terrorist organisation, for which he is unlikely to be
jailed for more than the two and a half years he served between his arrest and
appeal.

Josef Graessle-Munscher, Motassadeq's lawyer, said that under German law
techniques which have been authorised in Guantanamo Bay, such as sleep
deprivation and psychological deception, would render any statements
inadmissible.

However, Binalshibh and Mohammed are prisoners not of the military but of the
CIA, at an undisclosed location. It has been widely reported that their
techniques have been harsher and have included 'waterboarding' - covering a
prisoner's face with towels and pouring on water until he believes he is about
to drown.

'In Germany, any use of force to produce a statement is unlawful,' said
Graessle-Munscher. 'After Abu Ghraib, if the Americans want to see Motassadeq
convicted for 9/11 they are going to have to prove both Binalshibh and Mohammed
are in good health, and that they say Motassadeq was a conspirator.'


LOAD-DATE: July 19, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

                       © 2004 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              35 of 301 DOCUMENTS

                           Coventry Evening Telegraph

                             July 19, 2004, Monday

POISON GAS ALERT - BUT CAKES ARRIVED BEFORE FIRE CREWS;
 EMERGENCY SERVICES DENY MOCK TERROR ATTACK EXERCISE WAS A SHAMBLES D21301_24.
'DISASTER': Volunteers playing victims are taken into the decontamination
showers. Pictures: LISA CAREY; D21301_29. D21301_28. EMERGENCY: Police wear
breathing apparatus as a volunteer is taken to an ambulance

SECTION: First Edition; NEWS; Pg. 27

LENGTH: 341 words


THE success of a mock disaster drill at the NEC is being questioned after
reports that cakes for those taking part arrived before emergency crews.

Chief Insp Surjeet Manku, of West Midlands Police, said the initial response by
999 crews to the staged "poison gas attack" was excellent.

Firefighters arrived at the exercise on Sunday minutes after the alarm was
raised.

But crews remained at a rendezvous point, away from the 400 volunteer victims,
for two hours.

And the delay left many volunteers believing the time spent waiting to go
through a decontamination process would have proved fatal in real life.

According to some national newspaper reports refreshments of coffee and cakes
were the first 'reinforcements' at the scene.

But Chief Insp Manku said: "There was a feeling it was some while before all the
resources were deployed, but that is what would happen in reality.

"We would not want to send out fire crews into a contaminated area without being
properly equipped to deal with it.

"We do not want to lose our rescuers."

He added: "The exercise was not shambolic.

"We tried to make it as realistic as possible, and there will be room for
improvement."

Police, fire crews and medical experts were called out on the pretence that
three terrorists had released an unknown substance into the air at an NEC art
exhibition.

Emergency services from the West Midlands, as well as from Herefordshire,
Worcestershire, Warwickshire, Staffordshire and Shropshire, all took part in the
biggest exercise of its kind to take place in Britain.

Planned since January, Operation Horizon was put together with pounds 12,000 of
government cash to see how well the emergency services might work with each
other in the event of a major attack.

Exercise director, regional resilience team deputy director Helen Braithwaite,
said: "The threat from international terrorism remains real and serious. But the
public should remain alert and not alarmed. The exercise was sensible
contingency planning."

LOAD-DATE: July 19, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

                   Copyright 2004 Coventry Newspapers Limited

                              36 of 301 DOCUMENTS

                            Daily Post (North Wales)

                             July 19, 2004, Monday

WORLD'S TV WATCHES MOCK TERROR ATTACK

SECTION: NW Merseyside Edition; NEWS; Pg. 24

LENGTH: 342 words


EMERGENCY services last night admitted there were lessons to be learnt over
delays in their response to a simulated terrorist attack.

It took more than four hours to treat the "casualties" of a mock chemical attack
while police contained the situation and fire fighters set up special
decontamination units.

Talks to decide whether a multi-agency team designed specifically to deal with
major incidents would improve the response time were expected to be held with
the Home Office later this week.

Media from around the world, including Arabic television station Al Jazeera and
crews from Japan and France, watched as the exercise unfolded at the National
Exhibition Centre in Birmingham.

Emergency services were at the scene within minutes of the incident at around 9.
30 am yesterday morning, but remained at a rendezvous point well away from the
"victims".

A total of 400 volunteers played the role of visitors to an art exhibition
caught in a nerve gas attack. Several made efforts to escape as police tried to
contain them within a small area.

Firefighters, who arrived for the exercise despite an ongoing dispute over pay,
stayed away from the "casualties" for two hours before finally setting up their
equipment.

Police officers were fitted into protective camouflage suits before bringing the
volunteers under control and preparing them for the decontamination process.

The event, entitled Exercise Horizon, was designed to test the response to a
terrorist attack by all the emergency services and police were quick to defend
the time it took to respond.

Chief inspector Surjeet Manku, of West Midlands Police, said: "It is a really
difficult situation that we have got because you have got to assess the
situation as it evolves. You are not going to rescue people if the rescuers
themselves are affected.

"These are hard decisions that need to be made and that is the purpose of
testing incidents of this nature.

"The purpose of the exercise is to see how quickly we can get our officers
together. "

LOAD-DATE: July 19, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: A policeman wears a gas mask during the exercise

TYPE: Newspaper

               Copyright 2004 The Liverpool Daily Post & Echo Ltd

                              37 of 301 DOCUMENTS

                                   Daily Star

                                 July 19, 2004

JOKERS MOCK 'TERROR ATTACK'

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 132 words


POLICE and firemen staged Britain's biggest mock-up of a nerve gas attack
yesterday.

Nearly 2,000 rescuers swooped on the National Exhibition Centre at Birmingham in
the exercise to test real doomsday procedures.

But it took nearly three hours to "decontaminate" pretend victims.

And leaders of the operation admitted later that there were still "lessons to be
learned".

Around 400 volunteer victims from the Army Training Regiment left the hall
spluttering - but some participants thought it was all a bit of a lark.

Jokers tied tape around their necks and put traffic cones on their heads.

Others tried to flee the zone hours later but were grabbed by policemen in
protective suits.

A spokesman for the event said: "They were maybe a little over-exuberant."

LOAD-DATE: July 19, 2004

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Newspaper

                       Copyright 2004 Express Newspapers

                              38 of 301 DOCUMENTS

                          THE DAILY TELEGRAPH(LONDON)

                             July 19, 2004, Monday

Stock up food to survive terror attack Minister's advice to families

BYLINE: By Rachel Sylvester

SECTION: News Pg. 01

LENGTH: 645 words

EVERY home should store emergency supplies, including tinned food, bottled water
and medication, in case of a terrorist attack, Hazel Blears, the minister for
counter-terrorism says today.

In an interview with The Daily Telegraph, she says the Government plans to issue
guidance on what to do if al-Qa'eda attacks. It will also explain what it is
doing to prevent terrorism similar to the Madrid train bombings.

Although Miss Blears stresses that an attack is not inevitable and that people
should not "live in fear", she says it is best to be prepared.

"You should have all the telephone numbers you need," she says. "You should know
what is going on in children's schools . . . Most people would be sensible about
water and making sure they have some tinned food. If they take medication, they
would need to know where that was. A lot of it is common sense."

Miss Blears says she does not want to be alarmist. But the terrorist threat "is
serious, it is credible, it is real, it has increased and it is going to be with
us for the long term".

Speaking of the Government's responsibility, she says it must be as open as
possible. "This is not like a traditional war where the Armed Forces are going
to go out and fight on your behalf. This is something that is the responsibility
of all of us."

The Government wants to provide more information, probably through websites or
leaflets. "We are considering ways in which we can communicate better with
people, both about what they ought to do and what the Government is doing to
protect the country," Miss Blears says.

"My view is that, if you treat people like adults, they are perfectly capable of
understanding complex issues and of making difficult choices."

The Government has devised a strategy of "four Ps" for dealing with the
terrorist threat: prevent, pursue, protect and be prepared. Ministers have drawn
up plans for dealing with an emergency and there have been several practice
runs. Victims of a mock chemical attack in Birmingham yesterday waited four
hours for treatment.

Councils have been asked to make contingency plans. Preparations are being made
for an attack involving chemical, biological and even nuclear weapons.

"It would be unrealistic and irresponsible for a government to say, 'Oh well,
it's not going to happen so we won't bother,' " Miss Blears says.

The security services are involved in "horizon scanning", preparing for possible
targets such as a big sporting event, political conference or election
campaigns.

The attacks on Madrid commuter trains occurred shortly before the Spanish
general election and were thought to have been responsible for a change of
government.

"If there was a specific and credible threat, we would issue warnings," Miss
Blears says. "Public safety is our top priority."

Sir John Stevens, the Metropolitan police commissioner, has said that a
terrorist attack is "inevitable". Miss Blears disagrees because the Government
is doing everything it can to prevent one.

But she acknowledges that terrorists are trying hard to obtain chemical and
biological material.

"People will judge us on the basis of did we do everything we could?" she says.
"They will know we can do everything possible and [an attack] may well still
happen. But they will not forgive us if we spent our time floundering because it
was all too scary."

Miss Blears admits that the war in Iraq has caused resentment in Muslim
communities, which may make it easier for extremists to put their message
across.

"People did feel a lack of understanding about Iraq," she says. "There is no
point in denying that." She says also that the treatment of Palestinians has
provided terrorists with a "route through" to Muslim communities.

"Unless we attack some of the international issues which breed that sense of
injustice and oppression, you have a more fertile ground."

LOAD-DATE: July 19, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 2004 Telegraph Group Limited

                              39 of 301 DOCUMENTS

                     The Guardian (London) - Final Edition

                                 July 19, 2004

Minister urges public to stock up for terror attack

BYLINE: Sandra Laville and Sam Jones

SECTION: Guardian Home Pages, Pg. 2

LENGTH: 608 words


The government is to advise households across Britain to stock up on supplies of
tinned food, bottled water and medical kits to help them through a terrorist
attack.

Hazel Blears, the minister for counterterrorism, also said No 10 was planning to
advise on what to do should al-Qaida attack the UK, as well as explain what is
being done to prevent atrocities similar to the Madrid train bombing.

Despite asking the population to plan its defences, Ms Blears stressed that
attacks were not inevitable and said people should not "live in fear". But she
said it was best to plan ahead with some "common sense" preparations.

She said: "You should have all the telephone numbers you need. Most people would
be sensible about water and making sure they have some tinned food. If they take
medication, they would need to know where that was. A lot of it is common
sense."

She said the terrorist threat was "serious" and "credible". She added: "It has
increased and it is going to be with us for the long term." Ms Blears told the
Daily Telegraph that the government was looking at ways to educate the public
about terrorist attacks, and said it would probably use leaflets or websites.

It also emerged last night that Scotland Yard had begun an investigation into
how a secret dossier on possible al-Qaida attacks at Heathrow airport was found
in a road near Terminal 4. The report was said to have shown 62 sites at the
airport where al-Qaida was most likely to launch anti-aircraft missile strikes,
and contained information on police patrol times, dog units and the deployment
of snipers.

The investigation began as the largest simulated terrorist attack in Britain
took place More than 2,000 firefighters, police, ambulance crews and army
volunteers participated in a "chemical gas attack" in Birmingham yesterday in an
exercise designed to test the country's preparedness for a big terrorist attack.

The emergency call came at 9.30am, and while emergency crews understood the
exercise they knew nothing of the details of the attack. The first police
officer at the scene described a poison gas attack at an art gallery but the
scale was unspecific and those involved were unsure of the number of casualties
or fatalities. Fire crews from the West Midlands, Herefordshire, Staffordshire,
Shropshire, Warwickshire and Worcestershire were in the area within 12 minutes
and arrived to see 400 visitors to the art exhibition - in reality, volunteers
from the army - rushing from a building, choking, retching and collapsing.

Police officers in gas masks controlled the situation as some of the victims
tried to escape the containment area.

"People (get) frightened and confused - their first reaction is to get away from
the scene, but with poison gas that means they contaminate the area and other
people, so we wanted to simulate that and practise how to respond to it," said
Chief Inspector Surjeet Manku, from West Midlands police.

During the following two hours 150 firefighters with 28 appliances were set in
position as hundreds of police cordoned off contaminated areas.

Fire crews in green chemical suits decontaminated the 400 casualties, though
more than four hours after the attack many were still waiting to enter the
units. That delay is something those involved will focus on during the
debriefing, said Frank Sheehan, chief fire officer for the West Midlands.

Phil Causer, chief coordinator for West Midlands fire service, who is working
with the Home Office on the UK's response to the terrorist threat, said the
exercise showed the need for rapid response units.

guardian.co.uk/terrorism


LOAD-DATE: July 20, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 2004 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              40 of 301 DOCUMENTS

                            Manchester Evening News

                                 July 19, 2004

FAMILIES are being urged by the government to draw up their own personal plan to
deal with a terror attack.

BYLINE: by ian craig

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 448 words



FAMILIES are being urged by the government to draw up their own personal plan to
deal with a terror attack. In a chilling warning after yesterday's mock terror
attack exercise in Birmingham, Salford MP Hazel Blears, who is Minister for
Counter Terrorism, says that homes should begin stocking up on emergency
supplies.

These essentials would include tinned food, bottled water and vital
medicines.Families should also keep crucial telephone numbers and keep track of
what their children's schools are doing so they know where they would be if
there was an al-Qaida attack.

Hundreds of volunteers took part in the mock chemical attack in the West
Midlands yesterday - and today Ms Blears said that although such a thing was not
inevitable, people should be prepared and the government should issue advice.
"People will judge us on the basis of whether we did everything we could," she
said. "They will not forgive us if we spend our time floundering because it was
all too scary." In the run up to the war in Iraq, the Home Office issued advice
to householders on how to prepare for an attack, , including the advice on
stocking up on emergency supplies.

Ms Blears said the government would issue further guidance in leaflets and
through web sites on what to do if there is an attack. "You should have all the
telephone numbers you need and know what's going on in your children's schools,"
she said.

"Most people would be sensible about water and making sure they have some tinned
food. A lot of it is common sense." She added that the terror threat would be
with us long term, although she did not agree with police chiefs that an attack
on British soil was inevitable.

Meanwhile, the emergency services were looking today at what lessons could be
learned from their delayed response to the simulated terror attack. It took more
than four hours to treat the "casualties" of a mock chemical attack, while
police contained the situation and firefighters set up special decontamination
units.

Talks to decide whether a multi-agency team designed specifically to deal with
major incidents would improve the response time were expected to be held with
the Home Office later this week. Tory spokesman for homeland security Patrick
Mercer said the government must learn lessons from the drill, called Exercise
Horizon. "Even an exercise in ideal circumstances - a quiet Sunday, with no
traffic, no crowds and volunteer victims - has exposed plenty of faults," he
said.

Media from around the world, including Arabic television station Al Jazeera and
crews from Japan and France, watched as the exercise unfolded at the National
Exhibition Centre in Birmingham.

LOAD-DATE: January 13, 2005

LANGUAGE: English

GRAPHIC: CHILLING warning . . . Blears

                     Copyright 2004 Manchester Evening News

                              41 of 301 DOCUMENTS

                                  Morning Star

                                 July 19, 2004

Mock terror attack shows flaws in plan for treating casualties;

SECTION:  Pg. 4

LENGTH: 202 words


EMERGENCY services pledged to review how they reacted to a simulated chemical
attack in the West Midlands yesterday after it took nearly three hours to set up
"decontamination" units to deal with the "casualties."

The mock terror alert at Birmingham's National Exhibition Centre saw 400
volunteers dealt with by police, fire and ambulance crews.

But after the extraordinarily lengthy wait for decontamination, West Midlands
Police Chief Inspector Surjeet Manku admitted that the services would have to
"look at why it took so long."

The event, featuring 2,000 civilian participants, was the largest mock terror
attack ever staged in Britain.

It was designed as a test for emergency service crews from the West Midlands,
Herefordshire, Staffordshire, Shropshire, Warwickshire and Worcestershire.

A row blew up last week, when West Midlands Fire Brigade bosses were accused of
"bully-boy" tactics by the local Fire Brigades Union, after management
threatened to dock the pay of firefighters who did not attend.

The FBU had urged members to boycott the exercise until the outstanding pay
dispute is resolved, but it said yesterday that members had joined the exercise
"under duress."

LOAD-DATE: July 28, 2004

               Copyright 2004 People's Press Printing Society Ltd

                              42 of 301 DOCUMENTS

                               The Times (London)

                             July 19, 2004, Monday

Rescuers in three-hour delay after mock terror attack

BYLINE: Michael Horsnell

SECTION: Home news; 2

LENGTH: 406 words


EMERGENCY services took nearly three hours yesterday to start decontaminating
"victims" of the largest mock chemical attack to be staged in Britain.

Police and fire chiefs later denied that the exercise, designed to test response
to a terrorist attack, had been more of a disaster than the artificial disaster
itself. But as they began to assess the success of Operation Horizon, which
involved 2,000 people, they admitted that important lessons needed to be learnt.

Rescuers said that they would follow the same procedures during a real attack
but conceded that they would have to act more quickly.

With the media, including the Arabic television station al-Jazeera, looking on,
emergency services were called to the National Exhibition Centre near Birmingham
shortly after 9.30am to deal with the simulated nerve gas attack.

According to the emergency services' brief, terrorists had sprayed nerve gas in
one of the exhibition halls where a crowd of 400 had gathered for an art show.
The first wave of firefighters arrived 15 minutes after the alert was given, but
they were then banned from entering the contamination zone until 11.30am.

Wearing voluminous protective suits, they finally set up decontamination tents
at 12.15pm. Casualties were ordered to strip off their clothes and replace them
with bright orange capes before entering the decontamination unit, designed to
clear any traces of the nerve gas from their bodies. As they passed through the
cleansing tents, their orange capes were replaced with green suits and they were
then taken away by ambulance. Just after 2pm, the final casualties went through
the decontamination units, and many of the emergency services began to disperse.

West Midlands Police had been responsible for setting up an exclusion zone to
hold all those who had been infected. But the sealed-off area was constantly
breached by the volunteer victims, who were spotted skylarking with police tape
and traffic cones.

Deputy Chief Constable Chris Sims said that fire crews responding to a real
chemical attack would have been contaminated had they entered the scene too
soon.

Frank Sheehan, the West Midlands fire chief officer, denied that the operation
had been a disaster. "The situation which we were dealing with was one that was
constantly evolving." he said. "We were testing the system, seeing how we would
react faced with a real terrorist attack."


LOAD-DATE: July 19, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                    Copyright 2004 Times Newspapers Limited

                              43 of 301 DOCUMENTS

                                  Western Mail

                             July 19, 2004, Monday

WHY A 4-HOUR RESPONSE TO 'TERROR ATTACK' WORRIES SERVICES

BYLINE: BY MIKE JONES WESTERN MAIL

SECTION: First Edition; NEWS; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 497 words


Emergency services last night admitted there were lessons to be learnt over
delays in their response to a simulated terrorist attack. It took more than four
hours to treat the 'casualties' of a mock chemical attack while police contained
the situation and firefighters set up special decontamination units.

Talks to decide whether a multi-agency team designed specifically to deal with
major incidents would improve the response time were expected to be held with
the Home Office later this week.

Media from around the world, including Arabic television station Al Jazeera and
crews from Japan and France, watched as the exercise unfolded at the National
Exhibition Centre in Birmingham.

Emergency services were at the scene within minutes of the incident at around
9.30am this morning, but remained at a rendez-vous point well away from the
'victims'.

A total of 400 volunteers played the role of visitors to an art exhibition
caught in a nerve gas attack. Several made efforts to escape as police tried to
contain them within a small area.

Firefighters, who arrived for the exercise despite an ongoing dispute over pay,
stayed away from the 'casualties' for two hours before finally setting up their
equipment.

Police officers were fitted into protective camouflage suits before bringing the
volunteers under control and preparing them for the decontamination process.

The event, entitled Exercise Horizon, was designed to test the response to a
terrorist attack by all the emergency services and police were quick to defend
the time it took to respond.

Chief Inspector Surjeet Manku, of West Midlands Police, said, 'It is a really
difficult situation that we have got because you have got to assess the
situation as it evolves. You are not going to rescue people if the rescuers
themselves are affected.

'These are hard decisions that need to be made and that is the purpose of
testing incidents of this nature. It does take some time to get into the
protective suits.

'The purpose of the exercise is to see how quickly we can get our officers
together, how quickly they can get their equipment on and how quickly the
equipment can be deployed.

'We need to look at why it took so long, whether decisions were rationally made
and whether there were any communication difficulties.

'There are always lessons to be learnt from an incident of this nature, but it's
best to learn them now so that we can be as prepared as possible.

'It's difficult to say what will come of it, but we need to wait and see.'

It was almost three hours after the incident started before the decontamination
process finally began. The 'casualties' were forced to strip off clothes and
wear bright orange capes. They entered the two decontamination units, designed
to clear any traces of the 'nerve gas' from their bodies.

But more than four hours after the simulated gas attack, many 'casualties' were
still waiting to enter decontamination units.

LOAD-DATE: July 19, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Newspaper

                    Copyright 2004 Western Mail and Echo Ltd

                              44 of 301 DOCUMENTS

                     Belfast News Letter (Northern Ireland)

                            July 21, 2004, Wednesday

SPAIN FAILS TO RULE OUT 'MORE TERROR ATTACKS'

SECTION: 1st Edition; NEWS; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 160 words


THE Spanish government had anticipated a terrorist attack earlier this year, but
it knew of no specific target and figured Spanish peacekeeping troops in Iraq
were at highest risk, Spain's former intelligence chief said.

Jorge Dezcallar told a parliamentary commission on the March 11 Madrid terrorist
attack that "it was impossible to predict" the commuter train bombings, which
killed 190 passengers and bystanders and injured more than 1,500.

In separate testimony on Monday, Dezcallar's successor, Alberto Saiz, said that
despite any precautions Spain has taken, it is impossible to rule out another
attack.

"This threat is permanent," he said. "The National Intelligence Centre can never
say it can neutralise the threat of terrorism, which is very big and growing."

Confidential reports by the National Intelligence Center - for former Prime
Minister Jose Maria Aznar - "didn't speak of an attack in Spain," Dezcallar
testified.

LOAD-DATE: October 1, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

                   Copyright 2004 Century Newspapers Limited

                              45 of 301 DOCUMENTS

                            Evening Times (Glasgow)

                                 July 21, 2004

Two wounded in shooting at club;Terror as gunman attacks couple outside city
nightspot

BYLINE: By Deborah Anderson

SECTION: Pg. 9

LENGTH: 265 words


TWO people have been injured after being involved in a terror shooting in
Glasgow city centre.

Detectives have launched an investigation after the pair were shot as they left
a nightclub on Sauchiehall Street.

The terrifying incident happened in the early hours of yesterday morning and
police are anxious to speak to anyone who may have been around at the time.

Several other club goers could still have been making their way home or hanging
about the area when the shooting happened.

Police said a 25-year-old man and 20-year-old woman were injured during the
incident outside Blanket nightclub.

The man suffered a hand injury and was taken to from Glasgow Royal Infirmary for
treatment.

However, the woman suffered only slight injuries to the chest area but did not
require hospital treatment.

Police have narrowed down the time of the shooting to between 3.15am and 3.30am.

A description of the suspect has also been issued. He was said to be in his mid
to late twenties, 6ft tall and of medium build.

He was of athletic appearance, with short dark hair and was wearing light
coloured t-shirt and trousers.

Detective Inspector Billy Little, of Partick police station, is urging anyone
with information to come forward.

He said: "I would like to speak to anyone who was in the area of Sauchiehall
Street around that time and may have witnessed a fight or some kind of
disturbance between a group of people.

"It is unclear at this time how many people were involved in the disturbance and
it is vital that anyone with information contacts me."

LOAD-DATE: July 22, 2004

LANGUAGE: English

GRAPHIC: GUN HORROR: a man and a woman were shot outside this Glasgow nightclub

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                Copyright 2004 Scottish Media Newspapers Limited

                              46 of 301 DOCUMENTS

                                Birmingham Post

                            July 22, 2004, Thursday

US HAD TEN CHANCES TO STOP TERROR ATTACK

SECTION: First Edition; NEWS; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 282 words


The United States missed ten opportunities which may have helped prevent the
September 11 terrorist attacks, a commission is expected to report today. The
Congressional commission, probing the deadly strikes on New York and Washington
in 2001, said six of the failings came under the leadership of George Bush and
four under president Bill Clinton.

But many of the opportunities would have been 'long shots', according to the
commission, which stopped short of saying the attacks were preventable.

After 20 months of investigation, the National Commission on Terrorist Attacks
Upon the United States is due to report its findings today.

Government officials and others familiar with the 600page document told the
Washington Post it includes ten 'operational opportunities' to detect or derail
the plot.

One commissioner, who was not named, said: 'There clearly were many
opportunities out there that were not taken advantage of.

'From that, some will conclude it could have been prevented, others will say it
might have been prevented and the rest will say it's impossible to tell.' Among
those listed are the CIA's failure to add two hijackers' names to a terrorism
watch list and the FBI's handling of the arrest of alleged September 11
conspirator Zacarias Moussaoui a month before the attacks.

The report also details several failed attempts to kill or capture al Qaida
chief Osama bin Laden. After laying out its criticisms, the ten-member
bipartisan commission recommends restructuring of America's intelligence and
security apparatus, including the appointment of a Cabinet-level intelligence
director who would oversee the CIA, the FBI and other agencies.

LOAD-DATE: July 22, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

               Copyright 2004 Midland Independent Newspapers plc

                              47 of 301 DOCUMENTS

                                Birmingham Post

                            July 22, 2004, Thursday

US HAD TEN CHANCES TO STOP TERROR ATTACK

SECTION: First Edition; NEWS; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 282 words


The United States missed ten opportunities which may have helped prevent the
September 11 terrorist attacks, a commission is expected to report today. The
Congressional commission, probing the deadly strikes on New York and Washington
in 2001, said six of the failings came under the leadership of George Bush and
four under president Bill Clinton.

But many of the opportunities would have been 'long shots', according to the
commission, which stopped short of saying the attacks were preventable.

After 20 months of investigation, the National Commission on Terrorist Attacks
Upon the United States is due to report its findings today.

Government officials and others familiar with the 600page document told the
Washington Post it includes ten 'operational opportunities' to detect or derail
the plot.

One commissioner, who was not named, said: 'There clearly were many
opportunities out there that were not taken advantage of.

'From that, some will conclude it could have been prevented, others will say it
might have been prevented and the rest will say it's impossible to tell.' Among
those listed are the CIA's failure to add two hijackers' names to a terrorism
watch list and the FBI's handling of the arrest of alleged September 11
conspirator Zacarias Moussaoui a month before the attacks.

The report also details several failed attempts to kill or capture al Qaida
chief Osama bin Laden. After laying out its criticisms, the ten-member
bipartisan commission recommends restructuring of America's intelligence and
security apparatus, including the appointment of a Cabinet-level intelligence
director who would oversee the CIA, the FBI and other agencies.

LOAD-DATE: July 22, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

               Copyright 2004 Midland Independent Newspapers plc

                              48 of 301 DOCUMENTS

                               The Times (London)

                            July 22, 2004, Thursday

Two thirds of American voters fear terrorist attack during party conventions

BYLINE: Elaine Monaghan in Washington

SECTION: Overseas news; 14

LENGTH: 70 words


Two thirds of American voters are concerned about possible terrorist attacks in
Boston and New York City during the Democratic and Republican conventions,
according to a survey yesterday by Marist College's Institute for Public
Opinion.

Tom Ridge, the Homeland Security Secretary said this month that intelligence
indicated the possibility of attacks aimed at disrupting the election in the
United States.


LOAD-DATE: July 22, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                    Copyright 2004 Times Newspapers Limited

                              49 of 301 DOCUMENTS

                         The Evening Standard (London)

                                 July 23, 2004

BUSH ACCEPTS 'FAILINGS' OVER TERROR ATTACKS

BYLINE: JAMES LANGTON; JASON BEATTIE

SECTION: A; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 253 words


PRESIDENT Bush has accepted "deep institutional failings" after a longawaited
report into the September 11 attacks found serious flaws in America's ability to
fight terrorism.

The scathing report by an independent commission criticised Mr Bush and his
predecessor Bill Clinton for failing to defend the US against Osama bin Laden.

The report also attacked the White House and Congress, saying they left the
fight against terrorism to poorly-funded agencies like the CIA and FBI ,who
spent almost as much time fighting each other as terrorism. Mr Bush praised the
findings as, "serious and comprehensive" saying it would "help our country take
even more steps to better defend America".

Despite promising to "give serious consideration to every idea", Mr Bush is
unlikely to implement one of the commission's central recommendations, the
appointment of a national counter-terrorism chief to be responsible for the 15
intelligence agencies, including the CIA and FBI.

The findings will prompt fresh calls for Tony Blair to appoint a minister for
homeland security. Mr Blair has so far ruled this out. He may also face pressure
to consider the US report's recommendation for a cabinet-level official to
oversee the security and intelligence agencies.

After 20 months of investigations the report identified 10 missed opportunities
to uncover the plot six of which happened under President Bush.

The report criticises the "war on terror," a central plank in the president's
foreign policy.

LOAD-DATE: July 24, 2004

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                   Copyright 2004 Associated Newspapers Ltd.

                              50 of 301 DOCUMENTS

                         The Sunday Telegraph (LONDON)

                             July 25, 2004, Sunday

Britons shun Greece over fears of terror attack on Olympics Concern over
security, power cuts, transport chaos and building work have led to a fall of 70
per cent in British visitors

BYLINE: BY CHARLOTTE EDWARDES

SECTION: News; Pg. 08

LENGTH: 771 words

THE NUMBER of British tourists visiting Greece, the host of this summer's
Olympic Games, has fallen dramatically because of fears of a terrorist attack.

Holidaymakers who usually flock to the capital, Athens, have also been put off
by stories of excessive hotel prices and the chaos caused by the rush to finish
building work on sports stadiums and arenas.

The number of British visitors to Athens in June and July is down by about 70
per cent on last year, according to figures released last week - one of the
worst downturns in tourism since Greece became a popular holiday destination in
the late 1960s. Hoteliers in Athens, who had been expecting a boom in trade
because of the Games, said yesterday that they would cut prices by up to 40 per
cent to win back customers.

Many tour operators blame fears of a terrorist attack for the slump, combined
with media reports that Athens is ill-equipped to cope with the Games, is
plagued with power cuts, traffic jams, train delays, and high prices, and
generally looks like a building site.

The capital is not the only area to have been hit. The number of British
holidaymakers visiting the Greek islands in June and July was down by about 30
per cent on the corresponding months last year, according to figures released by
ACNielsen, the marketing information company.

Greece attracted just under 14 million tourists in 2003, one third of whom were
from Britain and Germany. The figure this year is likely to drop by 15 per cent.
The crisis has prompted operators to start offering "bargain bin" prices.

Last night four-star holidays on Greek islands were being advertised on
Lastminute.com for as little as pounds 16 a night, including meals. Holidays in
five-star hotels were offered for as little as pounds 309 for seven nights.
There was also "guaranteed availability" on destinations which would once have
been booked months in advance, such as Kos, Rhodes, Crete, Zante and Paphos.

The top end of the market is also affected. Islands such as Mykonos, Greece's
answer to the French Riviera, are deserted as holidaymakers opt for "offbeat"
destinations such as Egypt's Red Sea or Croatia's beaches.

Panos Argyros, the London director of the National Tourist Organisation of
Greece, admitted that there had been a fall in tourists travelling to Greece but
argued that it was a general trend.

"There is a drop, yes, but this is across the Mediterranean," he said. "The drop
in numbers going to Spain and Portugal is even bigger. The whole market is
falling because of new destinations such as Croatia and Bulgaria."

He admitted that the authorities had been expecting a boom similar to that seen
in Sydney, the host of the 2000 Olympics, which enjoyed a 20 per cent rise in
tourism during the Games.

"I can tell you we expected a little bit more, yes, but we are addressing that
with price cuts," Mr Argyros said. "The biggest drops will be among four or
five-star hotels in Athens and some will drop prices by 40 per cent." He accused
British newspapers of deterring customers. "I am upset with the media coverage
in Britain," he said. "They have invented scares about security. We have spent
pounds 1.2 billion on security, the most in Olympic history - only pounds 3
million was spent in Sydney.

"They have also invented these stories about the 'chaos' surrounding the event.
We are ready and I am confident that we are going to have the most successful
Olympic Games on record."

Richard Bowden-Doyle, the managing director of Lastminute.com, questioned
whether the threat of a terrorist attack was responsible for the slump. "The
popularity of North African destinations such as Egypt, Morocco and Tunisia
seems to counter that," he said. "Customers are looking for quality in relation
to cost: the more offbeat destinations are cheaper but have the same resources
as Greece.

"The increase in prices of hotels around the Olympics were fairly steep and
people have been put off."

It was a view echoed by Simon Jacques, 32, and his girlfriend, Hannah Titcombe,
28, who have cancelled their annual summer holiday to the Greek islands.

"We were going in August," said Mr Jacques, a Londoner. "But we were put off by
the number of problems we thought we would encounter because of the Olympics.

"It's mainly problems we have heard about on the news to do with the
infrastructure not being ready, but we also thought about the knock-on effect in
the islands. We decided that we didn't want our holiday ruined by the overall
chaos."

Mr Jacques, who is going to Spain instead, offered some hope to the Greeks. "I
will be going back there next year."

LOAD-DATE: July 25, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 2004 The Telegraph Group Limited

                              51 of 301 DOCUMENTS

                                Birmingham Post

                             July 26, 2004, Monday

GOVERNMENT ISSUES TERROR ATTACK ADVICE

SECTION: First Edition; NEWS; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 317 words


A leaflet telling people how to respond to a terrorist attack has been drawn up
by the Government.

The 22-page pamphlet is designed to help the public prepare for a terrorist or
civil emergency.

The leaflet has been backed by all the main political parties and follows a
similar move in Australia.

It covers first aid basics, how to respond in the workplace to a major emergency
and what to have at hand in case of an incident.

Home Secretary David Blunkett said the Government would also be producing
adverts to run in conjunction with the leaflets 'so people aren't frightened by
this'.

'It is all about helping you to do what you need to do and know what you need to
know,' he said.

'This could be from a terrorism attack all the way through to a major fire, to a
flood, to a situation where you're actually trying to help other people.'

Mr Blunkett said the Government could not guarantee '100 per cent safety' from
terrorists. But it was endeavouring to do so.

He said it was important not to 'over-hype' the threat because people needed to
go about their normal lives.

Mr Blunkett dismissed reports that a new special forces regiment was being set
up to infiltrate terrorist groups.

He said Britain already had the SAS.

'The real intelligence is not undertaken by those carrying M60s over their
shoulder,' he said.

He said al Qaida was not a traditional military force that could be identified.

Liberal Democrat spokesman Mark Oaten said: 'Sending out proper information to
the public on terrorism makes sense if it is informed and open.

'The public is mature enough to be told the truth.'

Shadow Homeland Security Minister Patrick Mercer said: 'I am delighted that the
Government has decided to follow the advice that we have given them. 'This is a
sensible measure, but it has taken the Government a very long time to do as we
asked.'

LOAD-DATE: July 26, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

               Copyright 2004 Midland Independent Newspapers plc

                              52 of 301 DOCUMENTS

                           Coventry Evening Telegraph

                             July 26, 2004, Monday

ADVICE ON TERRORIST ATTACKS FOR EVERY HOME

BYLINE: BY JAMIE LYONS

SECTION: First Edition; NEWS; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 211 words


A LEAFLET designed to help the public prepare for a terrorist or civil emergency
will be officially unveiled by the Government today.

The 22-page pamphlet covers first aid basics, how to respond in the workplace to
a major emergency and what to have at hand in case of an incident.

The initiative, to go to all homes, has been backed by all the main political
parties and follows a similar move in Australia.

Home Secretary David Blunkett said the Government would also be producing
adverts to run in conjunction with the leaflets "so people aren't frightened by
this".

"It is all about helping you to do what you need to do and know what you need to
know," he said.

"This could be from a terrorism attack all the way through to a major fire, to a
flood, to a situation where you're actually trying to help other people."

Mr Blunkett said the Government could not guarantee "100% safety" from
terrorists. But it was endeavouring to do so.

"Obviously we can pick up the pieces afterwards, but actually stopping them
doing it, as we did with the threat to Heathrow some time ago, is absolutely
crucial," he said.

Mr Blunkett said it was important not to "over-hype" the threat because people
needed to go about their normal lives.

LOAD-DATE: July 26, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

                   Copyright 2004 Coventry Newspapers Limited

                              53 of 301 DOCUMENTS



                                   The Mirror

                             July 26, 2004, Monday

TERROR ATTACK SURVIVAL TIPS

SECTION: 3 Star Edition; NEWS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 131 words


A LEAFLET giving tips on how to survive a terrorist attack will be launched
today by the Home Office. The 22-page pamphlet will drop through letterboxes
next month, backed by TV adverts.

Home Secretary David Blunkett said the public should not be frightened by the
leaflet. He told BBC1's Breakfast With Frost yesterday: "It is all about helping
you to do what you need to do and know what you need to know."

But he said the Government cannot give the public "100 per cent safety" from
terrorists. "Obviously we can pick up the pieces afterwards, but actually
stopping them doing it - as we did with the threat to Heathrow some time ago -
is absolutely crucial," he said.

Mr Blunkett also told the programme that ID cards are unlikely to be introduced
before 2007.

LOAD-DATE: July 26, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                            Copyright 2004 MGN Ltd.

                              54 of 301 DOCUMENTS

                                  Morning Star

                                 July 26, 2004

Activists attack new terror laws;

BYLINE: by LOUISE NOUSRATPOUR

SECTION:  Pg. 5

LENGTH: 391 words


CIVIL rights campaigners strongly rejected government plans to introduce yet
more laws under guise of the "war on terror" to clamp down on animal rights
extremists yesterday.

Trade and Industry Secretary Patricia Hewitt (right) said that the government
was looking to introduce new measures designed to tackle extremists and to stop
"terrorists and thugs" demonstrating outside workers' homes.

Ms Hewitt spoke after hundreds of demonstrators marched against a controversial
animal research centre that is being built by Oxford University.

The protest, which passed off quietly, was organised by animal rights group
Speak, which claims that experiments carried out at the facility - mainly using
monkeys and other primates - will be cruel and scientifically questionable.

Ms Hewitt, who pledged the government's full backing to build the new research
centre, said that police and top civil servants are ensuring that intelligence
on animal rights activists is gathered effectively.

"Home Secretary David Blunkett and I are now consulting with industry and the
police and others on how we toughen the law further to make sure we stop this
problem, " she said.

A leading City institution - the National Association of Pension Funds - also
confirmed that it is considering offering millions of pounds in rewards for
information against animal rights extremists in a bid to stamp out so-called
"investor terrorism."

The measures coincided with an unhelpful tirade by a top adviser to Britain's
two most high-profile animal rights groups - Speak and Stop Huntingdon Animal
Cruelty.

Former surgeon Jerry Vlasak claimed that the assassination of scientists working
in animal research centres should be part of the struggle.

"I think for five lives, 10 lives, 15 human lives, we could save a million, two
million, 10 million non-human lives, " he told a Sunday newspaper.

Civil rights group Liberty spokesman condemned Mr Vlasak's claim, but insisted
that introducing yet more laws on the bases of such "ludicrous" assertions is
unnecessary.

"Someone who calls for the killing of scientists is already breaching the law
for incitement to murder, " he noted.

"We already have the toughest anti-terrorist laws in Europe which cover all
eventualities.

We should interpret current laws, not add new ones."

LOAD-DATE: July 29, 2004

               Copyright 2004 People's Press Printing Society Ltd

                              55 of 301 DOCUMENTS

                                  Daily Record

                             July 27, 2004, Tuesday

DON'T PANIC!;
 NATION GIVEN TIPS FOR TERROR ATTACK

BYLINE: Pippa Crerar

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 565 words


FAMILIES were yesterday warned to stock up on food and essentials to survive a
terror attack.

The Government launched a pounds 8million campaign to prepare Britain for a
nuclear, biological or chemical strike.

And a top police officer claimed we were less prepared for emergencies than we
were 30 years ago.

A booklet to be delivered to all homes, Preparing for Emergencies, advises
stocking bottled water, tinned food, candles, matches, medicine and batteries, a
radio, torch, mobile phone, spare clothes and blankets.

It also gives basic first-aid advice and specific directions for different types
of emergency.

Launching the leaflet, Home Office Minister Caroline Flint said she always
stocked up her home.

Message She said: 'I always have a ready stock of food at home to feed my
children.

'The leaflet contains practical, common-sense advice on how to prepare for a
range of emergencies.

'This is not a response to any new or specific concern. If there is a threat
people need to be aware of, we will tell them.

'Be prepared but get on with your everyday life. This is very much our message.'

Chris Fox, president of the Association of Chief Police Officers, said Britain
was much less prepared for emergencies than decades ago, partly because of the
24-hour consumer culture.

He said: 'People are less used to thinking about stocks of food because they can
access shops and cash machines at all times.

'This is about reminding them there are certain simple things such as first aid
and basic com-modities in the house. In recent incidents where we have evacuated
people from flood, we found people quite surprised not to have things they have
got used to.

Vigilant 'On terrorism in particular, we are clear that the threat remains real
and high.

'But this campaign underlines the importance for all of us of remaining aware
and vigilant, without becoming alarmed. The leaflet says if there is a major
disaster, people should 'get in, stay in and tune in' - go home, stay indoors
and turn on the radio or TV to see what's going on.

Scots deputy justice minister Hugh Henry said: 'The additional and emerging
threat from global terrorism makes this an opportune time to improve the quality
and quantity of information each of us needs.'

Flint was joined at the launch by representatives of the emergency services, who
helped produce the pamphlet.

John Asquith, of the Emergency Planning Society, said he gave Britain nine or 10
out of 10 for how ready it was to cope with a crisis such as a chemical attack.

Also at the launch, Sir Nicholas Young, of the Red Cross, urged everyone to
learn basic first aid.

In a chemical attack, the leaflet advises staying where you are to await
decontamination. It says: 'It is important that this takes place where the
incident happened so that other areas, including homes, aren't contaminated.'

Flint admitted MPs had not followed this advice during the recent 'powderbomb'
attack on Tony Blair in the Commons.

They fled the chamber and, although the powder turned out to be harmless,
emergency planners were furious they'd failed to set a good example to the
public.

RECORD VIEW: Page 8WHAT YOU NEEDBOTTLED WATERTINNED FOODBATTERIESFIRST AID
KITCANDLEMATCHESTORCHBATTERY RADIOMOBILE PHONEADVICE IN 1980ADVICE IN
2004Minister Caroline Flint with the new emergency booklet

LOAD-DATE: July 27, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: The old pamphlet with advice on what to do in a nuclear blast

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

            Copyright 2004 Scottish Daily Record & Sunday Mail Ltd.

                              56 of 301 DOCUMENTS

                            Evening Times (Glasgow)

                                 July 27, 2004

Can a leaflet really save us from terror attack?;FOCUS: EVERY HOUSEHOLD TO GET
EMERGENCY MESSAGE

BYLINE: Russell Leadbetter

SECTION: Pg. 8

LENGTH: 889 words


THE Government said yesterday that it would send every UK home an advice
pamphlet to help the public prepare for terror attacks and other emergencies.

The 22-page booklet is part of an (pounds) 8million campaign.

In previous decades, similar pamphlets were damned as unrealistic exercises in
scaremongering. Does a similar fate lie in store for the new one? RUSSELL
LEADBETTER reports.

OVER the next month, an official-looking booklet will land on all 25 million
doormats in the UK. Householders may be tempted to bin it with the junk mail,
but the Government plainly hopes that they will read it.

The document, Preparing for Emergencies: What You Need to Know, includes details
on the operation of mass decontaminations after a chemical, biological or
radiological attack, as well as basic first aid, and guidance on how to prevent
a terror attack.

It also includes a list of useful items that householders should keep at home:
bottled water, tinned food, battery radio, torch, spare batteries, first-aid
kit, a mobile phone and cash.

The basic advice is to "go in, stay in, tune in" - a time-honoured civil defence
mantra echoed in countries around the world.

Civil defence booklets in past decades raised the spectre of a nuclear winter,
but while the nuclear threat has largely gone, a new one - global terrorism -
has taken its place. Official warnings that Islamic extremist groups may be
planning large-scale outrages have put the country on its guard.

Preparing for Emergencies is part of an £ 8million Government campaign, and TV
and radio adverts have already begun.

Is the booklet practical - or is it akin to scaremongering? After all, a similar
publication in America recently sparked panic buying and a rush for duct-tape
and batteries.

David Capitanchik, a terrorism expert at Robert Gordon University in Aberdeen,
thinks it has value.

"It doesn't have any of the nonsense of old civil defence publications, or ask
you to do any of the silly things some of them once did," he said. "On the
whole, it contains common-sense advice, bringing together the sort of things
that people need to be aware of in the event of not just a terrorist attack but
of any emergency."

While believing that the pamphlet was not the sort of thing "that you'd pull
down from the bookshelf regularly", he felt that householders would read it, and
bear its advice in mind.

Mr Capitanchik said it was good advice for parents to listen to their radio for
details of how their children were being collected from school in the event of
an emergency, rather than rushing to the school themselves.

"The Government is damned if it publishes a booklet like this and damned if it
doesn't, but generally it's written in the kind of language people can
understand."

It is, in other words, a long way from civil defence pamphlets of the Cold War
era. A 1955 booklet advised householders to whitewash their windows, claiming
this would help them lessen the heat of a nuclear blast. A 1962 pamphlet,
prompted by the Cuban missile crisis, urged people to lie flat on the ground in
the event of a nuclear explosion.

In the early 1980s the Thatcher government issued Protect and Survive, with its
ominous illustrations of mushroom clouds.

It bleakly outlined what you could do to protect your family in the event of a
nuclear strike.

There was advice on how to build a fall-out room, and stock it with tinned food
and a radio.

Should a family member die inside it, you were advised to move the body to
another part of the house. If no radio instructions came within five days, the
advice was to arrange a temporary burial.

Raymond Briggs satirised such measures in his book, When the Wind Blows, in
which an elderly couple tried gamely to survive an attack but suffered
gruesomely in the process.

Veteran peace campaigner EP Thompson replied to the government's civil defence
campaign with a scorching pamphlet of his own, called Protest and Survive. Other
critics claimed the government pamphlet was counter-productive and alarmist.

That was then. Today, senior police and Government figures are keen to prepare
the public for a possible attack. The last thing the Government wants to be
accused of, in the event of a major terrorist incident, is not having done
enough to prepare the public in advance.

Chris Fox, president of the Association of Chief Police Officers, believes we're
less prepared for an emergency today than we were 30 years ago, as we've grown
used to our ''comfortable" lives in a 24-hour convenience culture.

And shadow home secretary David Davis, while broadly welcoming the new pamphlet,
says that the Government should have acted sooner.

"It's been three years since September 11 - heaven knows what could have
happened in that time," he said.

"The truth is, if Britain were targeted tomorrow, we would still be grossly
unprepared for a terrorist attack.

"Local authorities are under-resourced and contingency planning in some areas is
in its infancy. The need for a senior minister to devote all his time to
protecting the UK from terror attack has never been greater."

In the meantime, all we can do is to study the pamphlet when it arrives - and
hope that we will never have to follow its advice.

lwww.preparingforemergencies.gov.uk

LOAD-DATE: July 28, 2004

LANGUAGE: English

GRAPHIC: ADVICE: Home Office minister Caroline Flint holds the leaflet which
will be sent to every home

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                Copyright 2004 Scottish Media Newspapers Limited

                              57 of 301 DOCUMENTS

                               Leicester Mercury

                                 July 27, 2004

Terror attacks, and how you should deal with them

SECTION: News; People; Issues; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 241 words


Copies of the Government's 22-page booklet, called Preparing for Emergencies,
will be posted to homes from next week.  Davina Logan, Leicestershire's
assistant chief constable, today welcomed the campaign to raise awareness of the
terrorist threat.

The leaflets explain how people can protect themselves and others in the
aftermath of a major disaster, including bombings and chemical, radiological or
biological attacks.

They also include details of how the emergency services will carry out mass
decontamination, basic first aid tips, what essentials people should consider
keeping in their homes, and advice on spotting suspects.

Mrs Logan said: "While the leaflet is not a response to any specific or
heightened threat to the UK, we certainly welcome the contents.

"Public safety is Leicestershire Constabulary's primary concern and the
practical advice in the booklet will allow people to make sensible preparations
that will help in a range of emergencies. If people are better prepared it can
only assist the work of the emergency services." Earlier this year a senior
police officer who co-ordinates the emergency services' response to major
incidents said everything was in place to cope.

Inspector Keith Barnes, Leicestershire police's emergency planning officer,
said: "We are confident we are ready and able to cope with a major incident,
but, touch wood, the plans need never be brought into action."

LOAD-DATE: July 28, 2004

LANGUAGE: English

                        Copyright 2004 Leicester Mercury

                              58 of 301 DOCUMENTS



                                   The Mirror

                             July 27, 2004, Tuesday

STORE TINNED FOOD, HOARD BOTTLED WATER, KEEP A STOCK OF BATTERIES AND A FIRST
AID KIT, BUT ABOVE ALL.. DON'T PANIC;
 LEAFLET'S ADVICE ON TERROR ATTACKS

BYLINE: ROSA PRINCE, POLITICAL CORRESPONDENT

SECTION: 3 Star Edition; NEWS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 412 words

HIGHLIGHT: PREPARE: Ms Flint yesterday


HOUSEHOLDERS were yesterday told to hoard food, water and batteries in case of a
chemical or nuclear attack.

The advice comes in a Government leaflet on how to survive in the event of a
major emergency.

Called Preparing for Emergencies - What You Need to Know, the leaflet will be
sent to the UK's 25million homes from next week.

The 22-page pamphlet cost pounds 8.3million and is backed by TV ads, which
started last night.

Home Secretary David Blunkett said: "Public safety and security is the number
one concern for Government. The practical advice will allow people to make
sensible preparations that will help them in a range of emergencies, such as
fires, as well as terrorist incidents."

At the launch yesterday Home Office Minister Caroline Flint denied it was made
due to an imminent terror threat.

She said: "I always have a ready stock of food at home to feed my teenage
children.

"We know the public want more information about what to do in the event of an
emergency. This is not a response to any new or specific threat.

"If there is a threat that people need to be aware of, we will tell them. Read
it, absorb it, then get on with your life."

As well as stocking up with essentials, sanitary products, a battery radio and a
first aid kit, the leaflet says people should 'Go In, Stay In and Tune In' - to
a radio for advice - in case of an emergency.

It also deals with coping with biological and nuclear attacks, gives advice on
spotting terrorists and teaches basic first aid.

Available in 16 languages, as well as Braille, it advises: "If you're trapped in
debris stay close to a wall and tap on pipes so rescuers can hear."

For chemical or biological incidents, people are advised to move from the source
of danger but wait to be decontaminated. Mrs Flint admitted MPs did not follow
this advice in the Commons powder attack on Tony Blair.

John Asquith, of the Emergency Planning Society, which helped with the pamphlet,
said Britain could cope with a chemical attack, adding: "It's not rocket
science. The leaflet contains simple, basic common sense things that people can
do."

But the Association of Chief Police Officers' Chris Fox, said people were less
prepared than 30 years ago. He added: "This is reminding them there are simple
things like first aid, basic commodities in the house, basic information
available.

"On terrorism in particular, we are clear the threat remains real and high."

LOAD-DATE: July 27, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                            Copyright 2004 MGN Ltd.

                              59 of 301 DOCUMENTS

                               The Times (London)

                             July 27, 2004, Tuesday

Tinned food, batteries and candles... how to survive a terrorist attack

BYLINE: Richard Ford

SECTION: Home news; 4

LENGTH: 1038 words


Younger generation are less prepared for a major emergency than their elders,
police believe. Richard Ford reports

A CAMPAIGN offering advice on how to deal with a terrorist atrocity was launched
yesterday as police gave warning that a cosseted younger generation is less
prepared for dealing with emergencies than its elders.

Chris Fox, president of the Association of Chief Police Officers, said the
leaflet is aimed at a public who are less inured to the idea of an emergency
than they were 30 years ago and that the 22-page pamphlet might help to shake up
people accustomed to comfortable lives in a round-the-clock convenience culture.

It will be delivered to 25 million homes in the next month in an £8.3 million
public information campaign. It includes details about mass decontamination
after a chemical, biological or radiological attack, basic first aid and
guidance on how to prevent a terrorist attack in the first place. It has been
compiled by government officials, MI5, the Chief Medical Officer and the
Emergency Planning Society.

Mr Fox said police had asked the Government to update information for the public
after discovering ignorance in recent emergencies such as serious flooding and
heavy snowfall. "This generation is less ready to deal with disruption than
previous generations," he said.

"I think people have got common sense but they have been weaned away from risk.
I think it's because we have 24-hour shops, we have 24-hour fuel and 24-hour
cash.

You can pop out and get everything. People have got comfortable. Thirty years
ago people were prepared to last a little bit longer before they needed these
things."

Mr Fox said he believed the pamphlet would inform people used to the
"convenience culture" what they should do in an emergency.

"In recent incidents where we have evacuated people from floods we found people
quite surprised that they didn't have water -they were quite surprised not to
have things that they have got used to," he said.

"My mother will kill me for saying this, but she has always got a stock of food,
there were always candles and the telephone numbers were there.

"Do people know where to turn their water off? Do you have a radio that works
off batteries? There are sensible, simple things that people can do to ease
themselves through a crisis."

At the Westminster launch John Asquith, chairman of the Emergency Planning
Society, said he believed that Britain would score nine or even ten out of ten
for its current levels of preparedness for a disaster.

Mr Fox said: "I am a police officer and I am probably not quite as optimistic."
He refused to give the current systems a mark out of ten.

A publicity campaign announcing the delivery of the leaflets began last night
with a TV commercial. One of the principal pieces of advice in the document is
"go in, stay in, tune in" -meaning that people should go inside and stay there
in the event of an emergency and listen to local radio or TV.

The pamphlet contains advice on coping with emergencies ranging from a household
fire to a dirty bomb attack. It also includes advice on basic first aid and
helping to prevent terrorism plus details about the action taken by the
Government to improve security recently.

Basic first aid advice is mixed with guidance that, for instance, if a person is
trapped by smoke he should stay close to the floor "where the air is cleaner".

They are also told to stay close to a wall and tap on pipes to alert rescuers if
trapped in debris.

It tells you what to do in a bomb attack, chemical, biological and radiological
"incidents" and fires.

It is the first public information leaflet produced by the Government since
1980, when Protect and Survive offered the public guidance on how to survive a
nuclear attack, although it was frequently accused of being naive and stating
the blindingly obvious.

The latest document, Preparing for Emergencies: What You Need to Know, advises
the public to stock up on bottled water, tinned food "and a bottle/tin opener"
along with candles, matches, medicine and spare batteries. But it also advises,
in a statement of the obvious, that people should not strike a match in case
there is a gas leak. It suggests that if you are caught up in an emergency you
should make sure that 999 has been called, do not put yourself or others in
danger, follow the advice of the emergency services and try to remain calm and
reassure others. But this assumes that the phone lines have not gone down, that
there is electricity and that there will be someone on hand who isn't also
sheltering at home with their redundant candles and matches.

If you are not involved in an incident, another key piece of advice is the
message "go in, stay in, tune in" -go inside a safe building, stay there and
tune in to local radio or TV for more information.

The booklet said the "go in, stay in, tune in" guidance is the best general
advice for the public in an emergency.

It also provides useful information for people caught in serious incidents. "If
you are trapped in debris stay close to a wall and tap on pipes so that rescuers
can hear you."Thus in the event of a bomb exploding outside your home or office,
people are told to remain inside and keep away from windows, lifts and doors in
case there is a second device in the area.

They are also told that if a door feels hot, they should not open it as it
probably means there is a fire on the other side. The leaflet talks of chemical,
biological or radiological incidents, advising people to move away from the
immediate source of danger but wait to be decontaminated by the emergency
services so as not to spread any possible danger.

In all of these situations, it says, stay calm, think before you act and listen
to the advice of the emergency services.

People are also advised to keep a list of useful phone numbers, such as their
doctors and own family members, and to keep keys handy, a radio with spare
batteries, torch, mobile phone, cash, spare clothes and blankets.

The booklet will be available in 16 languages, including Arabic, Chinese,
Gujarati, Kurdish, Punjabi, Somali, Turkish, Urdu, Vietnamese and Welsh.


LOAD-DATE: July 27, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                    Copyright 2004 Times Newspapers Limited

                              60 of 301 DOCUMENTS

                        Western Morning News (Plymouth)

                                 July 27, 2004

Terror attack leaflet will shock 'convenience culture' britons

SECTION: News; Other; Others; Pg. 34

LENGTH: 208 words


Britons are less prepared for an emergency today than they were 30 years ago, a
top policeman said yesterday.  President of the Association of Chief Police
Officers, Chris Fox, said a new leaflet on how to prepare for a terrorist attack
or other crisis may help shake-up people who have become accustomed to
"comfortable" lives in a 24-hour convenience culture.

The 22-page pamphlet will be delivered to all 25 million homes in the UK over
the next month in an £8.3 million public information drive.

It includes details on the operation of mass decontaminations after a chemical,
biological or radiological attack, basic first aid advice and how to prevent a
terror attack.

The leaflet also includes a list of useful items householders should keep at
home including bottled water, tinned food, battery radio, torch, spare
batteries, first aid kit, mobile phone and cash.

It has been written by government officials and experts from the emergency
services, the Security Service MI5, the Chief Medical Officer and the Emergency
Planning Society.

Mr Fox said: "I think people have got common sense but they have been weaned
away from risk. I think it's because we have 24-hour shops, we have 24-hour fuel
and 24-hour cash."

LOAD-DATE: July 28, 2004

LANGUAGE: English

                      Copyright 2004 Western Morning News

                              61 of 301 DOCUMENTS

                            The Independent (London)

                            July 28, 2004, Wednesday

OMAR FOLLOWER' LED TERRORIST ATTACKS

SECTION: First Edition; FOREIGN NEWS; Pg. 28

LENGTH: 47 words


UZBEKISTAN: An extremist group behind a wave of violence that has killed at
least 47 people is led by a follower of the fugitive Taliban leader Mullah Omar,
a Tashkent court heard yesterday. Thirteen men and two women are accused of
terrorism, murder and religious extremism.

LOAD-DATE: July 28, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 2004 Independent Print Ltd

                              62 of 301 DOCUMENTS

                                 Bath Chronicle

                                 July 29, 2004

City gets terror attack booklet within weeks

BYLINE: Rowena Speirs

SECTION: News; Environment; Other; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 388 words


Advice on surviving emergency situations is set to be delivered through the
letterbox of every home in Bath.  The Government pamphlet Preparing For
Emergencies is designed to help people respond to a major crisis.

The 22-page document has been put together in response to global events such as
the World Trade Center attacks and the Madrid train bombings.

It will be delivered to Bath residents within the next few weeks as part of a
national £8.3m public information drive.

Some people thought that the city had been overlooked in the leaflet drop but
homeowners have been told the information was now on its way.

The information given includes details on mass decontamination operations after
a chemical, biological or radiological attack.

Basic first aid advice, and even guidance on how to prevent a terror attack, is
explained.

The leaflet also includes a list of useful items people should keep at home such
as bottled water, tinned food, a battery radio, torch and mobile phones.

The new information pamphlet has been welcomed by Bath and North East Somerset
Council's deputy emergency manager John Brown.

"It holds no real surprises but includes a lot of sound, common sense advice,"
he said.

"I do feel it is better for people to read it and give the advice thought when
they are calm before a crisis situation." Mr Brown said he believed many Bath
residents were already ahead of the game.

He said: "B&NES produced a similar leaflet about 18 months ago, designed to help
people living in the city centre prepare for emergencies.

"It took into account the particular situation in Bath.

"We have a large residential population and businesses all living alongside each
other.

"We will now be consolidating our advice with that issued by the Government, and
we are currently working on a leaflet for all B&NES residents." Mr Brown is also
asking people to read the advice in the spirit it was written and not to panic.

He said: "There is no cause for alarm - people should be alert but not alarmed
by this information." The Government information can also be read online at
www.preparingforemergencies.gov.uk"
target="new">www.preparingforemergencies.gov.uk.

The B&NES leaflet is available in libraries.

r.spiers@bathchron.co.uk PICTURE: Lloyd Ellington

LOAD-DATE: July 30, 2004 2907BATHCH352cityg

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: News

                      Copyright 2004 Bristol United Press

                              63 of 301 DOCUMENTS

                                Essex Chronicle

                                 July 29, 2004

Masked raiders in terror attack

SECTION: Crime; Burglary; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 259 words


Police are hunting two masked men who burst into the home of a mid-Essex
businessman in a terror raid. It is understood that the family's pet dog may
have been attacked during the raid but police refused to comment. The men gained
entry to the home of Michael Bowkett, his wife Michelle and young children in
Hazeleigh, near Danbury, at approximately 5.30am 44on Wednesday last week.

Essex Police would not say if the family were threatened but a close family
friend said: "It's been very, very traumatic for them. It is an extremely
serious situation.'' The friend added: "There have been a lot of rumours but I
know that the family would rather it came out as it really happened." A police
spokesman said: "The hunt for the two masked men is continuing and so we are
not, as yet, releasing any vital information at this stage. None of the victims
needed hospital treatment." Police said the raiders escaped with a watch and
wallet.

Two years ago Mr Bowkett, led a £13.6 million management buy-out as the managing
director, of MITIE Access, through a Sandon-based purchasing company called Bow
Scaffolding Group Ltd, which specialised in the supply and erection of
scaffolding throughout the UK.

Mr Bowkett said at the time: "We believe our company is now well placed for
further market share and will offer the construction industry a quality product
with the focus on safety and quality." However, earlier this month Robert
Birchall from Price-waterhouseCooper was appointed receiver.

Police outside the Michael Bowkett's home

LOAD-DATE: September 29, 2004

LANGUAGE: English

                         Copyright 2004 Essex Chronicle

                              64 of 301 DOCUMENTS

                     The Guardian (London) - Final Edition

                                 July 29, 2004

Student finds spoof terror attack drill is no laughing matter

BYLINE: Martin Wainwright

SECTION: Guardian Home Pages, Pg. 5

LENGTH: 353 words


The government yesterday mislaid one of its most effective weapons against
terrorist fanatics - a sense of humour - when it demanded the removal of a
student's internet skit on its Preparing for Emergencies campaign.

A heavy-handed email topped the inbox of linguistics undergraduate Tom Scott,
19, who spent a happy day on Monday composing a spoof website based on the
Cabinet Office's design.

The message was "firmly worded", said Mr Scott, a self-confessed computer junkie
from Mansfield, Nottinghamshire. His spoof instructions came from HM Department
of Vague Paranoia and included tips on dealing with alien attack and zombies
("remove the head - suitable tools you may find in your shed include shovels and
cricket bats").

Mr Scott said the website preparingforemergencies.co.uk was transparently not a
real communication from anyone in genuine authority, with a photograph of Anthea
Turner heading the section on basic first aid.

Advice on bleeding says: "Just make sure it doesn't get all over the carpets,
but if it does, some proper cleaning stuff will fix it up good as new."

Mr Scott said: "It is quite obviously a parody and I don't think anybody is
going to be confused by it. I'm not sure if this email came from someone high up
or a low-level civil servant.

"But whoever it was, they don't have a sense of humour."

A spokeswoman for the Cabinet Office said legal advice had been taken over the
spoof, which also reassures readers: "This campaign is not in response to a
particular threat, unless you count the threat from the Liberal Democrats."

She said: "This student's intention may not have been to confuse people but he
has deliberately tried to mirror the format of the official site."

Similar spoofs in the US have surprised their creators with the extent to which
wacky instructions - such as clearing gardens of all shrubs because terrorists
like to hide in them - have been followed.

Mr Scott, who starts his second year at York University in October, said he had
more than 200 emails in the first day, all supportive except the Cabinet
Office's.


LOAD-DATE: July 29, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 2004 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              65 of 301 DOCUMENTS

                            Manchester Evening News

                                 July 29, 2004

IT could be the ideal home for anyone nervous about the latest government advice
on terror attacks - a nuclear bunker just a short drive from Manchester.

BYLINE: by james ducker

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 21

LENGTH: 515 words



IT could be the ideal home for anyone nervous about the latest government advice
on terror attacks - a nuclear bunker just a short drive from Manchester.
House-hunters are being invited to bid for the shelter, originally built to
protect British servicemen from Nazi bombings during the Second World War, with
a guide price of £250,000.  The 15,000 sq ft shelter compromises 50 rooms on two
floors and is big enough to shield up to 150 people from any kind of disaster.
Situated under a grass mound at Langley Lane, Goosnargh, near Preston, the
bunker was built in 1940 to protect Fighter Command - a special unit within the
Royal Air Force - from German attack during the Battle of Britain, but later
converted into a nuclear bunker.

Quirky News of the sale comes just days after the government issued new advice
on how to survive a terrorist attack.

The bunker has already attracted widespread interest and is expected to fetch
more than its asking price. Rob Ward, of Lincoln-based chartered surveyors JH
Walter, who are handling the sale, said: "It's not often that you get this kind
of thing coming up for sale and already we have had a number of inquiries from
people interested in purchasing the bunker. "The site has quite a history and is
likely to be widely sought after. It one of the most interesting and quirky
sales we have handled."

The bunker, close to junction 32 of the M6, features gas-tight blast doors, a
kitchen and canteen, dormitories and decontamination rooms, as well as air
filtration systems and huge water tanks capable of supplying fresh drinking
water for several months. In the 1950s, it was used as one of six operation
centres for the Rotor Radar Project, a pioneering early post-war defence system.
Information from radar stations around the region was received and processed
there, and the interception of enemy aircraft was also controlled from the base.
It was converted into a nuclear bunker in 1962 and used by the military
throughout the 1970s and 80s until it was closed in 1992. It has been empty
since.  Mr Ward added: "Experts tell me that the bunker would not have been able
to withstand a direct strike, but it could have coped with everything else.

"It would have survived a nuclear bomb on Preston, which is less than 10 miles
away." This week the government unveiled a leaflet designed to help the public
prepare for terrorist attack or other emergencies.  The 22-page pamphlet, called
Preparing for Emergencies: What You Need to Know, is being sent to every
household in the country and will be backed by a series of television and radio
adverts.  It offers first-aid advice, contact numbers and practical tips such as
keeping supplies of tinned food, bottled water and batteries.  Home Secretary
David Blunkett described the advice booklet as "good common sense", but that it
was important not to "over-hype" the threat because people needed to carry on
going about their normal lives.  Anyone interested in buying the bunker should
contact JH Walter on 01522 526526. james.ducker@men-news.co.uk


LOAD-DATE: January 13, 2005

LANGUAGE: English

GRAPHIC: ALL MOD CONS . . . the nuclear bunker, above, with the control room,
below left, and plant room, below right,

                     Copyright 2004 Manchester Evening News

                              66 of 301 DOCUMENTS

                              The Sentinel (Stoke)

                                 July 29, 2004

Couple fled 4am knife attack terror

BYLINE: S. ENTINEL REPORTER

SECTION: News; Environment; Gardens; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 532 words


A Paranoid schizophrenic who believed his neighbours were bad people went next
door with a large knife to try to kill them.  Assad Satar terrified David and
Susan Clowes in the middle of the night when he used the knife to try to smash
his way into their home.

Asylum seeker Satar, aged 26, from Afghanistan, was living next door to the
couple in Lewis Street, Stoke, at the time of the attack on August 12,
Stoke-on-Trent Crown Court heard.

They were in bed at 4.20am when they heard someone banging on their door.

When Mr Clowes went into the back yard, Satar vaulted over the 4ft wall and
began to attack the door.

Mr Clowes shut the door as Satar used a knife to try to smash his way in.

Now Satar, who admitted two charges of affray and a charge of criminal damage
for this and an earlier offence, will be detained indefinitely in hospital.

David Iles, prosecuting, said yesterday: "He (Satar) must have stabbed at the
door a dozen times before he started to kick the glass panel at the bottom." Mr
Clowes put his feet on the bottom of the door to stop Satar forcing his way
inside.

His wife got the car keys and they decided to make a run for it. They went out
of their front door, ran to their car and drove off before calling the police.

After Satar was arrested, he assaulted an interpreter and punched and smashed a
window at Harplands Hospital.

In his witness statement, Mr Clowes - who has lived at his house for 28 years -
said: "I have never been so scared in my life. I do not feel safe in my house.

"This has ruined my life. How can I leave my wife in the house?" Three weeks
before, Satar had become aggressive at the Citizens Advice Bureau in Hanley
after wanting help to return to Afghanistan. He snatched a telephone and started
smashing computers and furniture.

Mr Iles said: "For no reason he became violent and aggressive." Satar caused
£7,000 of damage.

He told police the reason for his outburst was that CAB staff had not arranged
his return to Afghanistan.

Peter McCartney, mitigating, said Satar was alone in a strange land and spoke
little English. He said the two incidents were "explosions of anger born out of
frustration".

He added: "This man was very ill, so ill he has spent the best part of this year
in a mental health centre after being transferred from prison where he was since
last August." Dr Antony Daniels, a consultant psychiatrist at City Hospital,
Birmingham, told the court Satar suffers severe paranoid schizophrenia.

He said: "He had had fights with his neighbours and his brother in Afghanistan.
I asked him why and he said his neighbours were bad people which was the same
reason he gave for the attack on his neighbours here. He told me it was his
intention to stab his neighbours if he had managed to reach them. He had
intended to injure them. Very serious injury or death might have resulted."
Judge John Warner also placed a restriction order on Satar to protect the public
from serious harm.

He told Satar: "You were a very ill man when you did these things, and you still
are. You are suffering from a mental illness and this is an opportunity for you
to be treated."

LOAD-DATE: July 30, 2004

LANGUAGE: English

                      Copyright 2004 The Sentinel (Stoke)

                              67 of 301 DOCUMENTS

               UK Newsquest Regional Press - This is Local London

                                 July 29, 2004

What you think about: Terrorist attacks

BYLINE: Hannah Barnes

LENGTH: 573 words


INCREASING public awareness and offering help in any eventuality are said to be
the intentions behind the government's Terrorist Attack pamphlet due to be sent
to 20 million homes in the coming month. But is that really how the public will
view it?

The leaflet is designed to offer advice on what to do should Britain be subject
to a terrorist attack. The 22-page booklet has first aid advice contact numbers
and practical tips such as keeping supplies of tinned food bottled water and
batteries.

While the Home Office has denied speculation that the campaign has been launched
in response to increased or specific threats of an attack the public may not see
it in the same light and there are fears it could lead to unnecessary worry
amongst the population.

It is unclear as to whether the advice will have its desired effect. Home Office
minister Caroline Flint said: "At the moment we don't think there is an imminent
threat (of a terrorist attack) but we have to be on our guard."

Our reporter Hannah Barnes asked local residents whether they thought the
leaflet was a good idea whether it was worth the eight million pounds which was
spent producing it and quite simply whether it provides advice on anything that
people didn't know already.

One resident commented: "I am one of the generation that went through the Second
World War so I'm not particularly fazed by the threat of terrorism. We keep the
standard equipment at home anyway."

Lindsey Kennard a company director in Richmond argued that the leaflet had the
potential to be helpful but it depended how the information was presented: "In
principle it's a good idea but it depends on the tone of it.

I hope it's an improvement on advice on what to do in the case of a nuclear
attack. I also hope it doesn't increase the recent atmosphere of worry and
scare-mongering that was started by the arguments given for the recent war with
Iraq."

However others didn't think that the terror pamphlet stood a chance of working.
Fernanda a physiotherapist from Richmond said I don't think it's going to work.
It might increase fear.

But if somebody is planning to carry out an attack then maybe it's just as well
people are scared."

When responding to a question about whether the amount of money spent on
producing the leaflets was justified Fernanda added: "Why not just put it on
television? Everybody watches it. They don't need to spend so much."

Marjorie Barnes from Richmond felt even more strongly about it saying: "It's
terrible. I don't agree with it. It's going to cause more panic and worry and we
get enough of all that already.

"People will start stockpiling food and water for something that might never
happen. Why give us all that worry?

"Even if people and the emergency services practice for such an event it's not
necessarily the case that they'll know what to do if it happens."

Doug Woodward director of a recruitment company from Walton-upon-Thames agreed
with Marjorie's comments arguing that the government leaflet was "pathetic".

"In this day and age he continued, people read the newspapers watch the
television and listen to the radio. I don't think a pamphlet coming through the
door is going to make much of a difference.

"There's more chance of being run over by a blind one-legged driver driving a
green bus than being killed by terrorists. It's all a waste of money - typical
Labour!"

LOAD-DATE: July 30, 2004

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: News

                  Copyright 2004 NewsQuest Media Group Limited

                              68 of 301 DOCUMENTS

                                  Western Mail

                            July 29, 2004, Thursday

COURT HEARS OF ATTACK TERROR

BYLINE: BY GARETH MORGAN WESTERN MAIL

SECTION: First Edition; NEWS; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 419 words


A paranoid schizophrenic Australian who attacked two Welsh tourists in Dublin
will spend 18 months in the Central Mental Hospital as part of a
two-and-a-half-year sentence.

His victims, an aunt and neice, said they had feared he was going to gouge their
eyes out during the attack.

Michael Frith, 34, later told Irish police that leading Republican activist,
Martin McGuinness, was his senior counsel - and Jim Davis, creator of the
world-renowned Garfield cartoon, was his solicitor.

He has now pleaded guilty to two counts of assault causing harm to Patricia
Bishop, 44, and to Valerie Canham, 64, both from Cardiff.

The assault happened on May 18 last year on South Leinster Street in Dublin and
was described as 'totally unprovoked' by policewoman Alicia Doyle.

The Welsh tourists were walking with their husbands, Nigel Bishop and Bernard
Canham, at around 11.30pm.

They had left a bar and were walking towards the Mont Clare Hotel, where they
were staying for the weekend, when they saw Frith on the opposite side. He
crossed over to their side and suddenly set upon the two women.

Ms Doyle said Frith went for the eyes of both women with his fingers. 'The women
felt as if he was going to gouge their eyes out and had suffered fractures to
their cheekbones and various parts of their faces as a result,' she said.

The Welsh couples had happened to be in the same pub, O'Sullivans, with Frith
earlier that night - but apart from that there was no connection or reason for
the attack.

But the group said they noticed Frith when they came in because of his imposing
physique and what they described as 'striking' eyes.

Police realised there was something mentally unstable about Frith when he began
making remarks about Mr McGuinness and Mr Davis during interviews after he was
arrested, with the help of CCTV footage from the street, the following day.

Ms Doyle said Frith also claimed that he had several issues to take up with
Queen Elizabeth and said he was planning to complain 'to the head of the United
States'.

The judge at Dublin Circuit Criminal Court ruled that Frith should be escorted
by the Central Mental Hospital staff to a similar facility in Adelaide,
Australia, after 18 months.

Luan I Braontin, for Frith, said that since being taken into custody after the
incident his client had spent most of the time at the Central Mental Hospital.

He was on medication and he had come to the stage where he recognised what he
had done was wrong.

LOAD-DATE: July 29, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Newspaper

                    Copyright 2004 Western Mail and Echo Ltd

                              69 of 301 DOCUMENTS

                            Herald Express (Torquay)

                                 July 31, 2004

Terror of sex attack victim

BYLINE: E. LLEN GRINDLEY

SECTION: News; 999; Sexcrime; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 258 words


The 38-year-old, staying at a respite centre in the town as part of her battle
against agoraphobia, has been left traumatised after Tuesday afternoon's attack.
Detectives are now appealing for help to find the man who put his hand up the
woman's top and then tried to kiss her.

DC Bob Latham, who is anxious to find the man, said: "This woman has been
extremely traumatised by this and I would like to hear from anyone who
recognises the description or who may have seen anything in the park." The
victim had plucked up the courage to make a trip out to a nearby shop and
decided to sit on a bench in the park before returning to the centre.

While she was there, a man came and sat beside her on the seat.

At first he appeared friendly but then began making suggestive comments.

He put his hand on her leg, his hand under her T-shirt before making a bid to
kiss her.

As she scrambled to get away, he grabbed hold of her arm.

She fought to get free and scratched her arm on nearby bushes but was able to
escape and run to the main road.

DC Latham added: "I believe this was an opportunist attack but it has left this
woman emotionally very distressed." The attacker is described as white, of
chunky build, clean shaven and with a local accent.

The woman remembered him having dirty blond hair, just visible under a dark blue
baseball cap. He was wearing dark navy jogging bottoms and was carrying a green
can of beer.

Anyone who can help is asked to contact CD Latham on 01803 841611 or 08752
777444.


LOAD-DATE: August 1, 2004

LANGUAGE: English

                    Copyright 2004 Herald Express (Torquay)

                              70 of 301 DOCUMENTS

                         Independent on Sunday (London)

                             August 1, 2004, Sunday

BNFL AIMS TO THROW VEIL OF SECRECY OVER THE MOVEMENT OF RADIOACTIVE WASTE;
 NUCLEAR GIANT SAYS IT WANTS TO PREVENT TERRORIST ATTACKS, BUT

BYLINE: CLAYTON HIRST Mystery voyage: details of ships, trains and lorries
carrying nuclear waste are soon to become classified information REUTERS

SECTION: First Edition; BUSINESS; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 595 words


British Nuclear Fuels (BNFL) is to have information on the movement of
radioactive material by road, rail and sea classified.

The state-owned company believes the decision will reduce the chances of its
nuclear material being targeted by terrorists. Environmentalists have branded
the move a "cover-up".

The decision will mean the public could be kept in the dark if nuclear material
is transported on passenger ferries or through the Channel Tunnel.

BNFL has taken its cue from a new report produced by the Department of Trade and
Industry-funded Office for Civil Nuclear Security (OCNS). This recommends that
details of the movements of all but the lowest category of radioactive material
should "not be releasable".

The report says: "Information of this sort would be an aid to choosing targets
while planning attacks for theft or sabotage." It warns: "If nuclear material
were to be stolen or sabotaged, for example by terrorists, the potential
consequences could be extremely grave."

Britain is one of the world's biggest transporters of radioactive material.
According to BNFL, in the past 30 years, some 7,000 tons of spent fuel has been
moved over 4.5 million miles.

The OCNS recommends restrictions on other nuclear information. The report says
that details of the quantity, type and location of radioactive waste from
decommissioning should be kept out of the public domain.

The OCNS also says that some of the information contained in planning
applications for nuclear facilities should be placed in an "annexe", marked
confidential. "The planning authorities should be notified that the annexe is to
be protected and not for public consumption," the report says.

A BNFL spokesman confirmed that it would be "guided by the OCNS advice". He
added: "It is a completely responsible attitude to take in this day and age."

He rejected accusations that BNFL was suppressing information: "Rather than
become shrouded in secrecy, we are working with key stakeholders to find ways of
improving communications with the public."

BNFL has set up a so-called Stakeholder Dialogue Working Group, which will
publish its own report on security before the end of the year.

The news has, however, raised the alarm among environmentalists. Norman Baker
MP, the environment spokesman for the Liberal Democrats, said: "It is right that
appropriate action is taken to ensure that nuclear material is not an easy
terrorist target. But I am concerned that this may be used to cover up
unacceptable practices."

Mr Baker cited a recent OCNS report on a train carrying nuclear waste. The train
was parked in sidings at Willesden, north-west London, but the OCNS found that
security arrangements were inadequate and kept it there for a week.

Mr Baker also pointed to a recent written parliamentary answer by Transport
minister David Jamieson. The minister revealed that the transportation of
radioactive material on passenger ferries and through the Channel Tunnel "is
permissible".

Greenpeace is also worried about the decision. Jean McSorley, the pressure
group's nuclear campaign co-ordinator, said the move could have serious
implications for local authorities. "Councils need to know about the
transportation of the material should there be an accident. As we all know, in
this kind of situation it would be local authority people who would be expected
to go on site and sort things out.

"The irony is that if a terrorist group really wanted to find out the movements
of nuclear material then they could. People talk."

LOAD-DATE: August 1, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 2004 Independent Print Ltd

                              71 of 301 DOCUMENTS

                                  Morning Star

                                August 01, 2004

New York fears terrorist attack;

SECTION:  Pg. 3

LENGTH: 61 words


NEW intelligence that the al-Qaida terrorist network plans to attack financial
or international institutions in New York City has prompted police to urge extra
security precautions at various city buildings, US media reported yesterday.

The warning, announced on Saturday night, did not say how the attacks might be
carried out or when they would occur.

LOAD-DATE: August 3, 2004

               Copyright 2004 People's Press Printing Society Ltd

                              72 of 301 DOCUMENTS

                           Coventry Evening Telegraph

                             August 2, 2004, Monday

EMAILS REVEAL PLANS FOR TERROR ATTACKS

BYLINE: BY JAMES LYONS

SECTION: City Final Edition; NEWS; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 158 words


PLANS for terror attacks on Britain and the US have been found following the
arrest of a senior al-Qaida suspect, it was revealed today.

The emails were said to be on a computer belonging to Ahmed Khalfan Ghailani,
wanted for the 1998 twin US embassy bombings in Africa.

Ghailani was arrested in Pakistan last week, a government minister in the
country said.

The revelation comes after the US issued a new terror warning about an attack on
"iconic" financial institutions in New York City, Washington and Newark, New
Jersey.

In Britain, the Home Office said it was monitoring the "real and serious" threat
of an attack here.

"We keep our own threat levels under constant review and if a specific threat
arises we would review the level accordingly," said a spokesman.

"We still say the threat remains real and serious.

"We do not discuss the threat level. If a specific threat arises we would inform
the public."

LOAD-DATE: August 2, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

                   Copyright 2004 Coventry Newspapers Limited

                              73 of 301 DOCUMENTS

                           Coventry Evening Telegraph

                             August 2, 2004, Monday

EMAILS REVEAL PLANS FOR TERROR ATTACKS

BYLINE: BY JAMES LYONS

SECTION: City Final Edition; NEWS; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 158 words


PLANS for terror attacks on Britain and the US have been found following the
arrest of a senior al-Qaida suspect, it was revealed today.

The emails were said to be on a computer belonging to Ahmed Khalfan Ghailani,
wanted for the 1998 twin US embassy bombings in Africa.

Ghailani was arrested in Pakistan last week, a government minister in the
country said.

The revelation comes after the US issued a new terror warning about an attack on
"iconic" financial institutions in New York City, Washington and Newark, New
Jersey.

In Britain, the Home Office said it was monitoring the "real and serious" threat
of an attack here.

"We keep our own threat levels under constant review and if a specific threat
arises we would review the level accordingly," said a spokesman.

"We still say the threat remains real and serious.

"We do not discuss the threat level. If a specific threat arises we would inform
the public."

LOAD-DATE: May 3, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

                   Copyright 2004 Coventry Newspapers Limited

                              74 of 301 DOCUMENTS



                                   The Mirror

                             August 2, 2004, Monday

SAMURAI TERROR;
 TWO ARRESTED AFTER MANIAC ATTACKED MEN WITH SWORD

BYLINE: ZOE WATSON

SECTION: Ulster Edition; NEWS; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 234 words


RIOT police surrounded a house yesterday to flush out a suspect after a maniac
swordsman wounded two people.

Families were evacuated from their homes in Canal Street, Newry, while marksmen
and a special SAS-trained squad took up positions.

The hunt for the man who hacked two random victims with a samurai sword on
Saturday led them to the house where a suspect had found refuge with a friend.

After an hour-long stand-off two men in their 20s were arrested.

The area was closed to traffic and pedestrians as tension built up around the
house. A PSNI spokeswoman said: "At one stage we thought negotiators would have
to be brought in to persuade the man to come out. But in the end police managed
to apprehend him and another man."

Officers dressed in combat gear and carrying shields stormed the house before
bringing the man out covered in a blanket to conceal his identity.

Less than 24 hours earlier an attacker stripped to the waist had slashed a man
in the city's James Connolly Street with a samurai sword. He claimed a second
victim as he walked in Monaghan Street.

Witnesses thought he seemed to be stalking the streets. The two men suffered
minor injuries and were treated in Daisy Hill Hospital.

Meanwhile, a Derry man was in a stable condition in hospital last night after
being stabbed three times in the Donkey Field area of Shantallow on Saturday
night.

LOAD-DATE: August 2, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                            Copyright 2004 MGN Ltd.

                              75 of 301 DOCUMENTS

                                 New Statesman

                                 August 2, 2004

Mark Thomas declines to stock up on baked beans; Anyone who wanders around the
house with a government checklist during a terror attack, making sure that their
tinned beans and credit cards are to hand, deserves to die. ByMark Thomas

BYLINE: Mark Thomas

LENGTH: 825 words


Government warnings about possible terrorist attacks are becoming increasingly
difficult to take seriously. They are delivered with the gravitas and certainty
of an ancient oracle in an old Monty Python sketch, booming: 'An attack could be
imminent!' 'Where?' replies the cowering populace. 'Nobody knows,' booms the
oracle. 'When?' ask the people, cowering slightly less. 'Soon . . . soonish . .
. It's not an exact science, you know.' 'OK then, who?' 'Couldn't rightly say.'
'How do you know?' inquire the quizzical folk.'The intelligence services told
us.' 'What, the same intelligence services that helped do the dodgy dossier and
the 45-minute claim of Hussein's weapons of mass destruction?' 'Er . . . Look,
this is serious, you know . . . Oh, is that the time?'

When it comes to predictions, Mystic Meg is more accurate and, frankly, more
credible.

Even when the warnings are specific, they don't manage to be as credible as the
government might hope. 'Terrorists could topple Big Ben on to parliament!'
screamed recent headlines. This is true: terrorists 'could' topple Big Ben. In
theory, they 'could' also steal the Millennium Dome and use it as a giant
Frisbee to decapitate Canary Wharf. They 'could' organise a mass urination into
the Thames and flood London.

Not content with that, an MI5 report for the House of Commons concluded that the
anti-tank concrete blocks ringing the Palace of Westminster 'could' be used as
projectiles against parliament. Which, again, is true - but surely the police
would spot the terrorists charging down Whitehall with their enormous siege
catapult, before they got to use it?

There is no denying the threat from al-Qaeda and the like, but we've had our
chains pulled once too often. From boats seized by police and which apparently
contained ricin but actually contained sugar, through dodgy dossiers and on to
Lord Hutton's obsequious verdict, it is hard to believe that we have not been
deceived, or at least, in the words of Hutton, 'subconsciously influenced' by
the Prime Minister.

So the new government leaflet advising us on what to do in the event of a
terrorist attack is hardly likely to be received with enthusiasm. To be fair,
any form of advice offering handy hints on coping with mass carnage looks odd.
Tony Blair's latest effort could never be as bad as Protect and Survive, issued
by the Thatcher government in 1980, on how to survive a nuclear holocaust. In it
was a list of dos and don'ts, should we survive a nuclear attack, such as: 'Do
not smoke.' Me, if I survived a nuclear assault, I'd probably think: 'Fuck it,
I'll chance a cigarette.' There were lots of other tips, such as: 'If you have a
home fire extinguisher, keep it handy.' There were even drawings of a man
putting out the small fire in his curtain with an extinguisher. Presumably, the
huge radioactive fireball had missed him and he'd just been careless with his
cigarette.

The advice that I most remember from Protect and Survive was that everyone
should build a shelter out of household doors by leaning them against the house
walls and covering them with cushions. We should also paint our windows white to
reflect the blast and we should put dead relatives into plastic bags and tag
them.

So, according to the government of the day, we should all spend our last four
minutes on the planet doing DIY and pondering how to fit each other into bin
liners.

How does new Labour's latest leaflet compare with Protect and Survive? Well, it
makes up for what it lacks in alarmism by stating the obvious. We should have
food in the cupboard, some money, and a torch in the house. (We really didn't
need to read a leaflet to realise that, did we?) It further says that, if we
find ourselves in a building that has been bombed, we should 'find a safe way
out'. As if we might think: 'Right, the building's been bombed. Who fancies a
rollerblade race to the photocopier?'

The government claims we should, once again, stay in our homes and wait to be
told what to do. Why, though? Surely, in a chemical weapon attack, you don't
want people going to or staying in their homes in the attacked area. If
Sellafield were attacked, for example, what earthly reason would there be for
people in Cumbria to remain in their homes? As an emergency planner explained to
me: 'In extreme situations, you don't want people to behave normally. You want
them to react abnormally.'

Anyone who spends their time in the middle of a terrorist attack wandering round
their home with a government checklist, turning off the electricity, checking
their supply of tinned beans and making sure they have their credit cards handy,
doesn't deserve to survive. This isn't bigotry or prejudice: it is Darwinian
fact. We should have evolved to a stage where we trust ourselves more than our
government, and if we are not prepared to make that leap, then we are heading
the way of the dodo.

See you at the taxidermist's!


LOAD-DATE: July 29, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                        Copyright 2004 New Statesman Ltd

                              76 of 301 DOCUMENTS

                              The Star (Sheffield)

                                 August 2, 2004

We're on the alert for terrorist attacks

SOURCE: The Star (Sheffield)

LENGTH: 300 words


SOUTH Yorkshire is on the alert for potential terrorist attacks and everything
is being done to ensure the county is as prepared as it can be, Home Secretary
David Blunkett pledged.




The Brightside MP was speaking as door-to-door distribution of the government
booklet 'Preparing For Emergencies - what you need to know' began in the county.


"We are continuing to prepare for emergencies nationally and in South
Yorkshire," he said.


"Local hospitals, schools and emergency services will all have tried and tested
plans for responding to incidents. We will continue to work hard to make sure
that the county is as prepared as it can be."


Mr Blunkett said the Government was working with organisations like the police,
the Red Cross, fire service and medical experts on preparation for emergencies.


Potential situations did not only include terrorist alerts but incidents like
big fires or natural disasters.


Mr Blunkett said the public needed to be alert and aware, which was the point of
the booklet.


"There are cynics who believe they know it all and therefore poke fun at the
idea of giving practical and down-to-earth advice," he said.


"I make no apology for that. It has to be down-to-earth, commonsense and
practical. Laying out in an easily readable form what you need to know and what
you need to do in a given emergency is precisely what people have been calling
for.


"The booklet will tell you how to prepare for an emergency, what practical steps
you can take at home and work to help prevent an emergency and how you can be
alert in spotting the signs that might put us in danger.


"Much of the information is based on commonsense advice and may seem obvious but
it has saved lives in the past.


LOAD-DATE: August 13, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                       Copyright 2004 Johnston Press Plc

                              77 of 301 DOCUMENTS

                               The Times (London)

                             August 2, 2004, Monday

Electric fence to guard Big Ben against terrorist attack

BYLINE: Greg Hurst, Political Correspondent

SECTION: Home news; 2

LENGTH: 627 words


AN ELECTRIC fence is likely to be set up around part of the perimeter of the
House of Commons to shield Big Ben from terrorists and publicity-seeking
protesters.

The Commons authorities have ordered officials to look at the feasibility of
running an electric current through strengthened fencing which is to be
installed as an interim measure.

It would run along the edge of the parliamentary estate in Bridge Street, which
links Westminster Bridge with Parliament Square and is one of its most
vulnerable points.

A Commons source told The Times: "We will look in the shorter term at having
better fencing and possibly electrifying it. It would give you a nasty shock and
(make you) jump off but would be at a height where if you fell off it wouldn't
kill you."

Ornate pointed iron railings mounted on a stone wall separate the road at this
point from the narrow lawn on the edge of New Palace Yard in the Commons, which
is considerably lower than street level.

This was the point from which two Greenpeace demonstrators breached Commons
security in March. They climbed two fences early on a Saturday morning and
scaled St Stephen's Tower to unfurl an anti-war banner next to the clock face,
causing acute embarrassment to the police and parliamentary authorities.

Big Ben would also be a trophy target for terrorists as would Speaker's House
next to it, which is overlooked by the same road and by one section of
Westminster Bridge.

Commons chiefs have also agreed to ask the Highways Authority to look into
closing or reconfiguring Abingdon Street, another road which runs close to the
Palace of Westminster outside the corner of the House of Lords.

The aim is to take traffic further away from the building, if necessary by
diverting it behind Westminster Abbey and into Victoria Street, to prevent a car
or lorry bomb from being driven close to the building by terrorists.

Booms are also to be floated in the River Thames to protect the Palace from an
attack by water.

These are short-term measures agreed after advice from the Security Service and
the Metropolitan Police, pending their full review of security at the Houses of
Parliament which is expected to be delivered next month.

Plans are being discussed to scrap the September sittings of the Commons and
Lords next summer to allow security improvements to be made during a longer
uninterrupted parliamentary recess.

These will include replacing the temporary security screen in the Stranger's
Gallery overlooking the Commons chamber with a purpose-made screen to be moved
forward and aligned with the gallery's balcony, which would need to be
strengthened to bear its weight. The current temporary screen is placed several
rows back.

If security weakness identified in the perimeter of the building can be
overcome, the House of Commons Commission, its executive body of senior MPs and
officials, is keen to remove the concrete blocks which were erected around the
Houses of Parliament in response to the heightened threat of al-Qaeda.

In addition to being unsightly, there has been speculation that security
officials have advised that these blocks could splinter into dangerous debris if
a bomb were detonated nearby.

Some of the options still being studied to keep traffic away from the Houses of
Parliament could dovetail with plans by Ken Livingstone, the Mayor of London, to
improve pedestrian access to Parliament Square, although he faces opposition
from Westminster council.

Responsibility for Parliament Square, which previously fell under the control of
the Department for Culture, Media and Sport, passed to the Mayor in October
2000.

But Mr Livingstone has made the pedestrianisation of Trafalgar Square his
priority.


LOAD-DATE: August 2, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                    Copyright 2004 Times Newspapers Limited

                              78 of 301 DOCUMENTS

                              DAILY MAIL (London)

                                 August 3, 2004

Investors stand firm despite the threat of terror attacks

BYLINE: GEOFF FOSTER

SECTION: ED_1ST; Pg. 58

LENGTH: 720 words


THE threat of further Al Qaeda-backed terrorist attacks on iconic economic
targets in the U.S. and Britain, including the New York Stock Exchange, put
dealers on the defensive.

But fears it would prompt a heavy sell-off by investors on both sides of the
Atlantic proved unfounded.

Instead, markets showed commendable resilience, with the Footsie recovering from
an early 22 point fall to finish 2.6 points ahead at 4415.7. Wall Street, helped
by better-than-expected quarterly profits from Proctor & Gamble, rallied from 38
down to 28 points up in early dealings.

The volume of business left a lot to be desired though, as worries over a
further rise in UK interest rates on Thursday was compounded by data showing UK
manufacturing in July storming ahead at its fastest pace in a decade. A 1/4pc
rise to 43/4pc looks nailed on, while bears roar it could even be 1/2pc.

Oil stocks were friendless despite the crude price rocketing overnight to $43.92
a barrel, its highest level in 21 years. BP cheapened 33/4p to 5121/4p.

Worries that the renewed terrorist threat will make major companies cut down on
international travel, and with jet fuel reportedly at a 14-year high, sellers
hit British Airways. It was sold down to 2201/4p before closing 61/2p off at
2241/4p.

Stonking half-year profits from HSBC (26p up at 8331/2p) and hopes that either
the owner of Midland Bank or rival HBOS (15 1/2p off at 697p) will soon counter
Santander Central Hispano's Pounds 8.1bn bid for Abbey National (141/2p better
at 5811/2p), helped heavyweight banks prop up the rest of the market.

Perennial takeover favourite Standard Chartered rose 11 1/2p to 921p ahead of
tomorrow's interim results.

Royal Bank of Scotland, which report today and could also be interested in Abbey
National, gained 13p to 1559p.

Drug-maker Warner Chilcott, the former Galen, jumped 29p to 629p. A U.S.

court ruling upheld the validity of the patent on its antidepressant Sarafem,
which Israeli company Teva had sought to make a generic version of. The victory
should mean Sarafem is patent-protected until May 2008.

Punters tucked into Alizyme amid revived takeover speculation. The close was 1
1/2p dearer at 158 1/2p on whispers that drugs giant Glaxo-SmithKline (1p easier
at 1116p) could be about to swallow the biotech company.

Dealers believe GSK wants to get its hands on Alizyme's ATL-962 obesity drug.
Analysts say it is a potential blockbuster. It could be on the market-in Europe
by 2007, and in the U.S.

and Japan by 2009.

Alizyme has been looking for a joint venture partner to fund both ATL-962 and
renzapride its treatment for irritable bowel syndrome through their final
studies.

Person-to-person online betting exchange Tradingsports Exchange Systems raced a
further 131/2p ahead to 70 1/2p amid growing speculation that it is the next
vehicle for the ubiquitous Terry Ramsden.

Word is the former City whizzkid and racehorse owner will take a stake via a
share placing. The stock was only 15p two weeks ago.

Financial PR firm Hansard, which has rocketed since Ramsden acquired a big
stake, touched 1221/2p and closed 1/2p dearer at 1161/2p.

The acquisition of Griffin Leisure has been agreed. It is a company owned by
Ramsden and which has 200 acres of land in Barbados. The group's next purchase
will be a rival PR firm.

Buyers chased Leisureplay, Ramsden's other financial vehicle, 7/8p higher to 21
3/4p following the announcement it has made an unsecured convertible loan of
Pounds 500,000 to The Private Treaty Market at a rate 2pc above base rate and
payable within two years.

Heavy buying in response to an Evolution recommendation lifted Energy Techniques
11/4p to 65/8p.

Support services group Harvey Nash jumped 5p to 721/2p after forecasting interim
profits will be ' substantially ahead of expectations'.

Numis says buy and has a target price of 130p.

ENTREPRENEUR Bob Morton's Multi Group firmed 3/8p to 61/8p after selling its
tool hire business, comprising ten tool hire depots and 23 temporary depots, to
Speedy Hire (unchanged at 420p) for Pounds 7.1m. Multi's chairman Oliver Cooke
says the disposals, cost-cutting and restructuring has amassed funds which will
help the board to re-launch the company. Acquisitions are on the agenda.

LOAD-DATE: August 4, 2004

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                   Copyright 2004 Associated Newspapers Ltd.

                              79 of 301 DOCUMENTS

                                  Daily Record

                            August 3, 2004, Tuesday

LORRY BOMB FEAR SPARKS US ALERT;
 TERROR GANGS MAY HAVE CARRIED OUT ATTACK TEST RUNS

BYLINE: By Anthony Harwood

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 360 words


LORRIES and trucks were turned back from New York yesterday as America's
financial institutions went on full terror alert.

Security was stepped up at five key buildings after photographs and drawings
were found on a computer belonging to an al-Qaeda suspect in Pakistan.

And security forces fear terrorists may have already infiltrated key buildings -
and carried out dummy runs.

The targets included the New York Stock Exchange and the 59-storey Citigroup
Centre building as well as the Prudential Financial headquarters in New Jersey.

The truck bomb warning also affected the International Monetary Fund and the
headquarters of the World Bank in Washington.

Back in Britain, the Home Office confirmed they were monitoring the 'real and
serious' threat of a terrorist strike.

Detailed plans, including photos, drawings and documents, were discovered on the
computer of Ahmed Khalfan Ghailani, a Tanzanian arrested after a gun battle in
Pakistan.

One document even noted the number of security guards in a target building,
reporting only one carried a weapon.

It sparked fears that terrorists have conducted a test run in recent days.

Trucks were yesterday banned from the Manhattan-bound side of the Williamsburg
Bridge, which links Brooklyn to the financial district. Commercial vehicles were
also stopped from going through the Holland Tunnel from New Jersey.

Armed coastguard boats were scouring the waters close to America's financial
centre inWall Street.

Barricades and metal fences were erected at the target sites as gun-toting
guards stood by.

Homeland Security Secretary Tom Ridge said it did not appear terrorists wanted
to strike with a radioactive or 'dirty' bomb.

He added: 'Analysis suggests in this instance they prefer a car or truck bomb
that they've employed elsewhere.'

Officials fear al-Qaeda may attempt a major strike to try to disrupt November's
presidential elections.

In London, a Home Office spokesman said: 'We keep our own threat levels under
constant review.

'We still say the threat remains real and serious.

'If a specific threat arises, we would inform the public.'

LOAD-DATE: August 3, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: CAPTURED: Ghailani; NO WAY THROUGH: Guards search a van in New; York's
Wall Street

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

            Copyright 2004 Scottish Daily Record & Sunday Mail Ltd.

                              80 of 301 DOCUMENTS

                       EVENING CHRONICLE (Newcastle, UK)

                       August 3, 2004, Tuesday Edition 1

UK braced for terror attacks

BYLINE: By Paul Mcmillan, The Evening Chronicle

SECTION: NEWS, Pg. 4

LENGTH: 456 words


   Britain continued on high alert for a terror attack today after plans for
bombings in the UK and the US were uncovered following the arrest of a senior al
Qaeda suspect.

Emails about attacks on both countries were on a computer belonging to Ahmed
Khalfan Ghailani, wanted for the 1998 twin US embassy bombings in Africa.

News of their existence comes as the US goes on a state of high alert following
warnings of attacks on top financial institutions in New York City, Washington,
Newark and New Jersey.

But the Home Office said the emails did not constitute a specific threat.

"We are maintaining a state of heightened readiness in the UK," a spokeswoman
said.

"We are taking every feasible precaution to protect British citizens here and
abroad and, as ever, we keep the threat level under constant review."

Ghailani was taken in a 12-hour gun battle with Pakistani intelligence officers
in the eastern city of Gujrat eight days ago.

Another computer, disks, two AK-47 assault rifles, chemicals and a large amount
of foreign currency were also found at his home.

A second suspect, another wanted man, believed to be a computer and
communications expert, has also been seized by the Pakistani authorities.

Shadow Home Secretary, David Davis, called on Prime Minister, Tony Blair, to
spell out the exact threat to the UK."

Mr Davis said: "The British Government should take this risk extremely
seriously. We find it very worrying that the Americans seem to be at a much more
advanced stage than us in contingency planning and police presence. They also
share much more information with their public than our Government.

"Mr Blair needs to spell out the exact threat to the UK so we are in a clear
position. It is astonishing that we are getting more information about the risk
to Britain from the US than from our Government.

"The truth is that local authorities are under-resourced and Britain does not
have one person solely responsible for the job of keeping us safe against
terrorists. The sooner we have a Minister for Homeland Security, the better."

Last week, the Government launched a booklet going to every home in the UK,
offering advice on what to do after a terrorist attack.

At its North East launch, Gary Barnett, Assistant Chief Constable of Durham
Police, said there was no reason to say the region is at any less or more of a
target than anywhere else in the country.

Targets for a possible terrorist strike are believed to include major regional
landmarks like St James' Park, the MetroCentre and Durham Cathedral.

In April, Operation Magpie simulated a chemical attack in the centre of
Newcastle. Run by the Health Protection Agency, it was the first major test
staged outside London.

LOAD-DATE: August 3, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                Copyright 2004 Newcastle Chronicle & Journal Ltd

                              81 of 301 DOCUMENTS

                                  The Express

                                 August 3, 2004

AN AL QAEDA PLOT TO BOMB AMERICA AND BRITAIN WAS FOUND ON HIS COMPUTER. . .SO
WHY HAS THE US GONE ON HIGH ALERT WITH ARMED COPS ON THE STREETS, WHILE HERE
IT'S JUST BUSINESS AS NORMAL?; SEIZED TERRORIST HAD PLANS FOR UK ATTACK

BYLINE: By John Ingham Defence Editor

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 8 9

LENGTH: 748 words


AN Al Qaeda plot to blitz Britain and America has been foiled after a leading
terror suspect was arrested in a gun battle in Pakistan.

But while the US responded with heightened security yesterday, there was no
evidence of an increased state of alert in Britain. E-mails on the suspected
terrorist's computer revealed plans to bomb targets in Britain and named
specific buildings in America.

The US government said the information complemented intelligence from multiple
sources which contained "extraordinary detail". One document detailed that one
target building had three male security guards but only one carried a weapon. In
a chilling memo, a terrorist wrote: "Getting up to the higher floors is not very
difficult if you go there midweek, as I did."

Amid growing tension, President Bush yesterday backed the creation of a national
intelligence tsar and a counterterrorism centre in America, declaring:

"We are a nation in danger."

Guards armed with sub-machine guns manned cordons outside financial
institutions, checked staff identity passes and used sniffer dogs to search
lorries nearby. But in Britain there were no signs of any extra security outside
landmark buildings like the Swiss Re insurance headquarters, commonly known as
the "Gherkin, " in the City of London.

Not far away at the Stock Exchange the front line against a suicide bomb attack
was a cleaner, polishing the front doors.

In America, the authorities issued a terror warning about an attack on "iconic"
financial institutions. There were fears of suicide lorry bombs in New York just
yards from the site of the Twin Towers that were destroyed in the September 11
plane attacks.

The terror warning emerged after US intelligence officials found a "treasure
trove" of documents during a raid in Pakistan on Al Qaeda suspects.

E-mails found on a computer belonging to Tanzanian Ahmed Khalfan Ghailani,
wanted for the 1998 twin US embassy bombings in Africa, showed that terrorists
had carefully watched the New York Stock Exchange and the 59-storey Citigroup
building and planned to bomb them.

Ghailani, thought to be about 30, is wanted for his alleged involvement in the
attacks in Nairobi, Kenya, and Dar es Salaam, Tanzania, which killed 224 people,
including 12 Americans.

He was arrested last week in the Pakistan city of Gujarat after a 12-hour gun
battle. Two computers discs, two AK-47 assault rifles, plastic chemicals and a
large amount of foreign currency were taken from his home.

Information minister Sheikh Rashid Ahmed said: "We got a few e-mails from
Ghailani's computer about attacks in the US and UK." He was said to be sharing
"vital" information. A second suspect, a "very wanted man" believed to be a
computer expert, has also been seized by the Pakistani authorities.

The US authorities named other potential targets as the International Monetary
Fund and World Bank buildings in Washington and the Prudential building in
Newark, New Jersey.

US Homeland Security Secretary Tom Ridge said the threat level for financial
institutions in New York, Washington and Newark would be raised to orange, or
high, but would remain at yellow, or elevated, elsewhere. He said: "This is not
the usual chatter. This is multiple sources that involve extraordinary detail."

A senior intelligence official described "excruciating detail" and meticulous
planning "indicative of Al Qaeda". Downing Street and the Foreign Office refused
to comment.

Last night Shadow Home Secretary David Davis called on the Government to be more
open with the public - and to take the threats seriously. Mr Davis, a former
Special Forces soldier, said:

"We find it very worrying that the Americans seem to be at a much more advanced
stage than us in contingency planning and police presence. They also share much
more information with their public than our Government.

"Blair needs to spell out the exact threat to the UK so that we are in a clear
position where we stand. It is astonishing that we are getting more information
about the risk to Britain from the Americans than from our own Government. The
sooner we have a Minister for Homeland Security the better."

But the Home Office said the e-mails did not constitute a specific threat. A
spokesman said: "We are maintaining a state of heightened readiness. We are
taking every feasible precaution to protect British citizens here and abroad
and, as ever, we keep the threat level under constant review."

LOAD-DATE: August 3, 2004

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Newspaper

                       Copyright 2004 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS

                              82 of 301 DOCUMENTS

                          THE JOURNAL (Newcastle, UK)

                       August 3, 2004, Tuesday Edition 1

Oil prices hit new high on terror attack fears

BYLINE: By Iain Laing, The Journal

SECTION: BUSINESS LOCAL, Pg. 4

LENGTH: 350 words


   Oil prices hit a fresh record high yesterday following warnings of possible
terrorist attacks against financial institutions in the United States.

The cost of crude surged to $ 43.92 a barrel in New York as the security alert
hit a market already stretched by high demand and inadequate production.

It came just a day after the chairman of oil giant BP warned that motorists were
unlikely to get quick relief from soaring petrol prices.

Lord Browne had warned that prices were likely to remain high in the short term
due to insecurity of supply across the world.

Analysts said the heightened security situation had an impact on yesterday's oil
price, although it was largely driven by continued high demand. The US
government has warned of possible terrorist attacks against "iconic" financial
institutions in New York City, Washington and Newark, New Jersey, saying new
intelligence pointed to a car or truck bomb.

It named the New York Stock Exchange as one of a number of potential targets.

Paul Horsnell, head of energy research at Barclays Capital, said this had added
to a series of factors pushing prices higher, mainly strong demand and a lack of
spare capacity.

Investec oil expert Bruce Evers said the security alerts had a "small impact" on
the cost of oil. He added that oil prices were likely to stay at their current
high levels even if the situation in Iraq was to change.

Prices have risen in recent days on fears of a sharp slowdown in output from
Russia as investors fret over a stand-off between Russian authorities and the
country's largest oil firm, Yukos.

Concerns have also grown over the ability of Iraqi security chiefs to protect
oil installations.

Analysts have forecast that prices are likely to rise further ahead of winter,
possibly to a peak of $ 50 [ 27] a barrel.

Richard Slape, oil analyst at Seymour Pierce, said oil prices would have to stay
at their current levels for some time if they were to have an impact on petrol
prices.

He also said it would take weeks for a rise to be passed on to consumers at the
petrol pump.

LOAD-DATE: August 3, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                Copyright 2004 Newcastle Chronicle & Journal Ltd

                              83 of 301 DOCUMENTS

                               The Times (London)

                            August 3, 2004, Tuesday

Fears of terrorist attack affect currency markets

SECTION: Home news; 4

LENGTH: 72 words


Fears that a terrorist attack on a major financial centre was imminent spooked
the currency markets yesterday, causing the US dollar to tumble in early
trading.

The dollar fell 0.4 per cent against sterling to 1.8276, with the pound
benefiting from very strong manufacturing output figures and the expectation
that the Bank of England Monetary Policy Committee will raise interest rates by
a quarter point on Thursday.


LOAD-DATE: August 3, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                    Copyright 2004 Times Newspapers Limited

                              84 of 301 DOCUMENTS

                                Birmingham Post

                           August 4, 2004, Wednesday

AL QAIDA TERROR ATTACK INTELLIGENCE 'SEVERAL YEARS OLD'

SECTION: First Edition; NEWS; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 462 words


New fears that al Qaida made detailed plans to launch attacks on Britain and the
US are based on information gathered by terrorist operatives several years ago,
intelligence sources said yesterday.

According to documents seized during a raid in Pakistan, al Qaida had conducted
surveillance at key financial centres in Washington, New York and New Jersey.

But officials told the New York Times that much of the information was collected
up to four years ago. There were signs that some of terrorist reconnaissance
work was being done before the September 11 attacks.

And it was not clear whether the operations were ongoing, or if plans for a
fresh attack were still in the pipeline.

New York Police commissioner Raymond Kelly said the information collected by al
Qaida was a 'vulnerability analysis' and there was no evidence that it was 'tied
to any operational plan'.

Furthermore, federal authorities told the New York Times that officials had been
mistaken in saying suspects had been found with blueprints of the Prudential
Insurance building in New Jersey and in saying that attack test runs may have
recently taken place there.

The revelations will fuel suspicions among opponents of the Bush administration
that terror fears are being overblown.

Some suggest that it is a ploy to unite the country behind the president with
just three months to go before the election.

The information amassed by the plotters 'was gathered in 2000 and 2001' and 'it
appears that some of it may have been updated as recently as January of this
year', said Frances Townsend, the White House homeland security adviser.

But, she added: 'You can't tell from the intelligence itself whether or not
those individuals are still here.'

Other government officials warned that, although the information was gathered
several years ago, it could still be used to plan an attack. 'You could say that
the bulk of this information is old, but we know that al Qaida collects,
collects, collects until they're comfortable,' said one senior official.

Other more general intelligence, gathered in recent weeks, has suggested that al
Qaida is planning to launch an attack on America in the run-up to the
presidential election, due on November 2.

Speaking in Manhattan, homeland security secretary Tom Ridge denied that
politics played any part in the latest warnings.

'We do not do politics at the Department of Homeland Security. Our job is to
identify the threat,' he said.

According to Mr Ridge, intelligence and security officials were working on the
assumption that al Qaida operatives were already in place in the US.

'We just have to accept, for our planning and preparation, perhaps, that they're
here, looking to attack us,' he said.

LOAD-DATE: August 4, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

               Copyright 2004 Midland Independent Newspapers plc

                              85 of 301 DOCUMENTS

                     The Guardian (London) - Final Edition

                                 August 4, 2004

Fight against terror: Attack warning: US officials defend terror alert: Captured
material included target photographs taken in January

BYLINE: Julian Borger in Washington

SECTION: Guardian Home Pages, Pg. 4

LENGTH: 543 words


US officials yesterday insisted they were right to raise the alert over a
potential terrorist attack against a US financial target, despite the fact that
much of the information that prompted the warning was years old.

During a day of claims of political motives in the handling of the alert, a
senior Bush administration official told the New York Times that the cache of
al-Qaida surveillance material captured in Pakistan contained photographs taken
last January of financial centres in New York and Washington.

Earlier, Tom Ridge, the secretary of homeland security, conceded that almost all
the evidence found on computer files seized recently in Pakistan pointed to
al-Qaida surveillance of key financial establishments that pre-dated September
11 2001.

He said that some of the information had been updated as recently as January,
but added there was "no evidence" of more recent surveillance. That did not mean
there was no imminent threat, he argued, because of al-Qaida's reputation for
long-term planning.

"I would point out that this is the most significant, detailed piece of
information about any particular region that we've come across in a long, long
time, perhaps ever," he said.

The Washington Post yesterday quoted a "senior law enforcement official" as
questioning the motivation behind the alert declared on Sunday of a possible
attack on financial centres in New York, Newark and Washington.

"There is nothing right now that we're hearing that is new," the official said.
"Why did we go to this level?"

Mr Ridge rejected suggestions that the high alert was politically motivated. "We
don't do politics in the department of homeland security," he said.

His claim there was no evidence of recent surveillance directly contradicted an
earlier intelligence briefing to reporters suggesting the surveillance of
targets "probably continues even today".

A US intelligence official stuck by that claim yesterday. "There is reason to
believe it (the surveillance) continues," the official said, adding that
evidence for al-Qaida preparations came from many sources.

"There are multiple streams of reporting discussing potential attacks. The
information at the briefing (on the Pakistan findings) is just another piece of
puzzle that fits into streams of reporting," the official said.

"Some of the information is pre-9/11, but remember that with the (Kenya and
Tanzania) embassy bombings in '98, the casing of the embassies took place in
1993 and it was approved in 1994 by Bin Laden, and the attack only happened in
'98. This is a very methodical, patient organisation."

According to a former senior CIA official, some of the corroborating evidence
came from British intelligence who had captured an al-Qaida suspect who claimed
that an attack would take place in the US two months before the US presidential
election.

That would coincide with the Republican convention in New York at the end of
August and the beginning of September.

The alerts were triggered by the arrests of the al-Qaida computer expert
Muhammad Naeem Noor Khan, and Ahmed Khalfan Ghailani, a Tanzanian wanted for the
1998 bombings in East Africa.

Analysis, page 19

Leader comment, page 21

The Editor, page 22


LOAD-DATE: August 4, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 2004 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              86 of 301 DOCUMENTS

                               Lincolnshire Echo

                                 August 5, 2004

Fear over terror attacks helps keep pump price high

SECTION: News; Other; Others; Pg. 22

LENGTH: 513 words


Motorists have been warned that petrol and diesel prices will remain above 80p a
litre for the "foreseeable future".  Continuing concerns about threats to oil
supplies in Russia and Iraq have seen prices hit another record high and brought
more bad news for consumers in Lincolnshire.

The price of a barrel of light crude in New York reached 44.28 dollars
yesterday, 15 cents up on Tuesday's closing price of 44.15 dollars.

It followed warnings yesterday from Middle Eastern oil cartel Opec that it could
not boost production to cool prices.

Now motoring organisations in Britain have said the price rises mean drivers
should expect petrol to remain above 80p a litre for the "foreseeable future".

Director of the RMI Petrol Retailers Association Ray Holloway said he agreed
there was likely to be no respite.

"In general terms the message is that the cost of our crude oil is going to
remain high, certainly for the foreseeable future." Attacks on a key Iraqi oil
pipeline and fears of potential breaks in supplies from Russian group Yukos are
reported to have been fuelling the uncertainty.

Mr Holloway agreed the effects of such reports were indicators of a "very
nervous market".

But he said the industry also faced long-term pressures unrelated to terrorism.

One example that exacerbated the problem was the growth in demand for petrol in
areas such as China and India.

"For the past 20 years availability of oil has been greater than demand," he
said.

"We had a recession and as we recover from that the oil industry is waking up to
the fact that people in China and India want to buy their oil.

"As soon as you have more buyers, it pushes the price up." The warnings over the
prices have been greeted with dismay - but not surprise - by fuel users in
Lincolnshire.

Managing director of Lincoln-based haulage firm Denby Transport, Peter Denby,
said he thought this week's Opec statement was "particularly gloomy".

"The current level of diesel prices is hurting us very badly," he said.

"It reduces our margins - effectively we just have to try to pass this on to our
customers.

"They then pass them on to their customers and, over a long period - I would
estimate several months - this affects the retail customer." Mr Denby, whose
firm uses up to 250,000 litres of diesel each month, said he accepted there was
little he could do about the situation.

"It is very uncomfortable but we just have to find a way of soldiering on
through it." County farming leaders are also worried by the warnings.
Lincolnshire NFU spokesman Alison Pratt said the harvesting season was the
busiest time of year for farmers.

"Farmers traditionally use more fuel at this time of year because they are
running machinery," she said.

"It is made worse because they are having to use more fuel to dry their crops
this time." Are you worried about fuel prices?  Write to Your View at
Lincolnshire Echo, Brayford Wharf East, Lincoln LN5 7AT.

Or e-mail yourview@lincolnshireecho.co.uk Pump Watch ... see Page 26.


LOAD-DATE: August 6, 2004

LANGUAGE: English

                        Copyright 2004 Lincolnshire Echo

                              87 of 301 DOCUMENTS

               UK Newsquest Regional Press - This is Local London

                                 August 6, 2004

Borough's well prepared for terror attack

LENGTH: 386 words


ONE look at this week's national press is enough to see that we are living in
increasingly dangerous times with the threat of a terrorist attack occurring in
the capital rising writes Hannah Barnes.

While the United States clearly remains enemy number one Britain does not follow
too far behind due to its fully-fledged support of actions in Iraq.

It is reassuring to know in such a situation that Hounslow borough is
well-equipped to deal with an emergency.

Not only has Hounslow borough planned for an attack through its Emergency
Planning Officer David Kerry the local fire brigade is to be part of a new
initiative named the London Local Authority Gold the name given to London's
Local Authorities and the London Local Authority Co-ordination Centre. The
initiative is to be co-ordinated by the London Fire and Emergency Planning
Authority working alongside Gold representatives from the emergency services and
other agencies.

The cost of the programme is £200 000 and this will be met in its entirety by a
one-off government grant. Work is currently underway to provide the
communications and information systems needed for London Local Authority Gold. A
number of London Borough Chief Executives and their support teams are already on
a call-out rota ready for the role.

The purpose of these arrangements is to provide a communications and information
system to enable the London Local Authority Gold to be able to formulate and
manage the strategy for a collective London Local Authority response to any
emergency that may strike the capital. The London Local Authority Co-ordination
Centre will collect information provide assessments of the status and needs of
London Boroughs as well as co-ordinate requests and projects.

This scheme differs from existing arrangements in one important way. While there
are very well established arrangements for emergency planning in the various
London boroughs that allows for the local management of incidents up until
recently there have been no specific arrangements for strategic management of
London Local Authorities on a London-wide basis. The arrangements are seen as
the best way of improving the level of resilience in London and for any incident
where a strategically managed response by local authorities would be
appropriate.

LOAD-DATE: August 6, 2004

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: News

                  Copyright 2004 NewsQuest Media Group Limited

                              88 of 301 DOCUMENTS

                                  Western Mail

                            August 7, 2004, Saturday

WELSH ATHLETE WAS CAUGHT UP IN OLYMPIC TERROR ATTACK

BYLINE: BY GARETH MORGAN WESTERN MAIL

SECTION: First Edition; NEWS; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 793 words


The Welsh Olympian caught up in a terrorist attack on the Olympics more than 30
years ago has recalled the horror on the eve of the 2004 Games. The name Ieuan
Owen may not be familiar to many sports fans, but in August 1972, at the age of
31, he represented Great Britain as a weightlifter at the Munich Olympic Games.

But the contest was overshadowed by a terrorist attack on the Olympic Village
which killed one of Mr Owen's fellow weightlifting competitors and an events
judge, just after he had competed with them.

It was 4.30am on September 5, 1972, when five Arab terrorists wearing track
sweat suits climbed the six-foot six-inch fence surrounding the Olympic Village
and headed towards the area where Israeli competitors were sleeping.

Although they were seen by several people, no one thought anything was unusual
since athletes routinely hopped the fence; moreover, the terrorists' weapons
were hidden in athletic bags.

But this would signal the beginning of a chain of bloody events that led to the
games being dubbed the 'Munich Massacre'.

Mr Owen, from Caernarfon, says it is 'probably the worst thing that has happened
in the entire Olympics' and prays a similar tragedy never strikes again.

His weightlifting colleague Joseph Romano attempted to block the door while
Israelis escaped, but he was killed by the terrorists who burst into the
compound and took nine hostages.

'It was absolutely shocking because just a couple of days earlier I was
competing with him and everyone was happy,' said Mr Owen, who was British
champion at the time.

'The judge in my competition was later killed as the group moved to take
hostages.

'It was a Palestinian group called Black September who were responsible and
being there at the time was awful.

'It was an unbearable shock to think that these people were being killed.'

The terrorist attack, which ended with a bloody gunfight at the Nato air base at
Firstenfeldbruck, shocked the world.

'I hope it never happens again. There have been incidents since but that was the
worst,' added Mr Owen.

'To think they got in dressed as athletes is ridiculous now. I think security
really stepped up after that, and even more since.'

Now, as sports fans look forward to the 2004 Olympic Games in Athens, S4C
digidol will mark the occasion by televising a number of short fiction films
from across Europe.

Each is based on the lives of one of the thousands of athletes who have competed
in the games over the years.

The first film, Codi'r Bar (Lifting the Bar), is based on Mr Owen's experiences
and can be seen on S4C tomorrow.

The aim of the short films, which span seven nations across the European
Broadcasting Union, was not to highlight well-known superstars.

Instead producers say they wanted to find a good story and develop the fictional
shorts from that basis, reminding people of the sporting ethos of the Olympics
as the world gears up for Athens 2004, which starts next Friday.

Mr Owen, who is now 63, was surprised but pleased to become the catalyst for a
contemporary film.

'I was shocked that they wanted to make a film based on me,' he said.

'I thought they only made television programmes about superstars, like Colin
Jackson, not about people like me.'

He never won a medal and was caught up in a major terrorist attack, but being
part of the games and staying within the Olympic village compound was a thrill
he will never forget.

'I rubbed shoulders with the greats,' said Mr Owen.

'Although the terrorist attacks in Munich overshadowed the competing, we managed
to carry on.

'I was there for about a month and mixed with famous athletes such as David
Hemery and the gymnast Olga Korbut every day.'

Codi'r Bar will be shown tomorrow at 10pm on S4C.: You don't have to be a winner
to have a story that's real drama:Another Welshman, Ynyr Williams, is executive
producer of the Straeon Olympaidd series. 'The European Broadcasting Union
decided to produce this series of 10-minute short fiction films to celebrate the
Athens Olympiad,' he says.

'All the films are scripted, and although the events are fictitious, the
characters are based on real athletes, who have taken part in the Games in some
way or another.

'All the countries - Slovenia, the Czech Republic, Romania, Poland, Ireland,
Greece and Wales - have produced films based on the lives of competitors from
their own countries.

'The main aim was to find a good story. It didn't matter whether the athlete was
famous or not.

'There are a lot more unknown losers than well-known winners - and that's where
you find the best stories - like Ieuan's. 'Dedicating your life to competing and
then losing everything: that's the real drama.'

LOAD-DATE: August 10, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Newspaper

                    Copyright 2004 Western Mail and Echo Ltd

                              89 of 301 DOCUMENTS

                                Evening Gazette

                             August 9, 2004, Monday

TEEN IN TAXI ATTACK TERROR

BYLINE: GARETH LIGHTFOOT

SECTION: Final Edition; NEWS; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 213 words


A teenager was indecently assaulted after she stepped into a taxi.

The 18-year-old woman got into a car at the rank on High Street, Stockton, at
about 1am on Friday night.

She was later indecently assaulted by the driver but managed to escape from the
cab on Norton Road, Stockton, where she was found by police.

Police have appealed for anyone who saw the incident, the taxi or who might have
any information about the vehicle to come forward.

In the wake of the assault, officers have reminded the public of the dangers of
bogus taxis.

Passengers must use only recognised vehicles displaying the relevant plates
where the driver must display a badge.

Chairman of the Middlesbrough Hackney Carriage Association, Idrees Rashid, said
bogus taxi drivers are commonplace across Teesside.

"This is a serious problem both in Stockton and Middlesbrough but there is a
serious lack of enforcement," he said.

"Police only seem to take action on them when something like this happens.

"A lot of these drivers have criminal records and are unable to get a licence so
they just park outside popular areas and taxi ranks and call people over
pretending to be a taxi."

* Anyone with information is urged to contact Cleveland Police on 01642 326326.

LOAD-DATE: August 9, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Newspaper

                    Copyright 2004 Gazette Media Company Ltd

                              90 of 301 DOCUMENTS

                                South Wales Echo

                             August 9, 2004, Monday

CAR ATTACK TERROR IS ADMITTED

BYLINE: BY JACKIE BOW SOUTH WALES ECHO

SECTION: Valleys Echo Edition; NEWS; Pg. 25

LENGTH: 282 words


A family dispute led to a man taking a sledgehammer to a car belonging to his
partner's aunt. Merthyr Tydfil Crown court was told father-of-two Marc Christian
Daily attacked the vehicle while Kerry John was in it.

She had earlier thrown a brick through the window of a house where he believed
his children were.

Daily, 26, of Glannant Street. Aberdare, admitted charges of criminal damage,
affray and possession of an offensive weapon on March 29.

Prosecutor, Alex Greenwood, said the complainant stated in letters she had since
suffered anxiety and insomnia.

Sentencing Daily to a 180-hour community punishment order, Judge John Curran
said he had armed himself with a sledgehammer and caused extensive damage to the
car.

'At the beginning of the incident the unfortunate owner of the vehicle, the aunt
of your partner, was actually inside and some glass got into her hair as a
result of you smashing the panel in the roof. Undoubtedly she was absolutely
terrified as a result of what happened.'

Eight years ago Daily was convicted of a similar act of damage, 'obviously while
in temper'.

But he was a young family man with a good work record, in regular employment,
and he had pleaded guilty and expressed regret. The public interest would be
better served by him paying pounds 2,300 compensation for the damage. It was one
of the rare cases where the defendant had taken steps to pay the money to the
insurers before he was dealt with, which had also influenced him.

Judge Curran said: 'The woman admitted she had thrown a brick through the window
of a house where you thought your children were. That may explain what you did
but in no way justified it.'

LOAD-DATE: August 10, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Newspaper

                    Copyright 2004 Western Mail and Echo Ltd

                              91 of 301 DOCUMENTS

                     Belfast News Letter (Northern Ireland)

                            August 10, 2004, Tuesday

PROVINCE NOT PREPARED FOR MAJOR TERROR ATTACK - CLAIM

BYLINE: ALAN ERWIN

SECTION: 1st Edition; NEWS; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 484 words


TOWNS across Northern Ireland are not well enough equipped to cope with any
major new terrorist attack, Omagh bomb victims claimed yesterday.

Emergency planning and evacuation procedures are dangerously low compared with
other countries and cities, relatives of those killed in the massacre believe.

Mark Breslin, whose wife Geraldine died in the blast, has spent five years
studying worldwide preparations and warned that the authorities in the Province
have been left behind.

He said: "Future lives could be saved if we had a root-and-branch approach to
preparing for terrorist attack.

"I believe Northern Ireland is not as well prepared as the experience and
history here should dictate.

"Other countries seem to be further along this path in a shorter space of time."

Mr Breslin has compiled a dossier he says backs his view, including readily
accessible plans for parts of the US, Australia, India and other UK regions.

His work formed part of a package presented to the Northern Ireland Human Rights
Commission in Belfast by the Omagh families as part of demands for a public
inquiry on both sides of the border into the bombing.

They want chief commissioner Brice Dickson and his staff to back their call for
a tribunal into events surrounding the August, 1998, Real IRA attack which
killed 29 people, along with unborn twins.

"Getting them on board would be a powerful weapon in our armoury," said Michael
Gallagher, whose son Aiden was murdered in the bombing.

Pressure has intensified since Police Ombudsman Nuala O'Loan's damning
assessment of the original investigation.

Relatives of the dead insist both the PSNI and Garda still have a lot of
questions to answer over informants, levels of co-operation, and whether all
terror suspects were properly questioned.

A big part of their continued frustration is based on how Omagh was evacuated on
the day of the explosion.

Although the families do not blame the officers on the ground, they claim there
was a lack of basic training over bomb threat procedures.

Mr Breslin cited a plan prepared by Lincoln city centre and distributed to
shopowners and businesses in the area.

Although local councils in other UK regions are bound by law to produce and
publish emergency plans, it is understood that Northern Ireland has no such
requirements.

As the families met the human rights commissioners in Belfast, the city council
disclosed details of its preparations.

A spokeswoman said: "We do have an emergency action plan which covers situations
where people have to be evacuated, such as a fire or major spillage, and we
would provide bedding and food.

"For a major terrorist incident we would work with the police, fire and
ambulance services." "There's a strategic group which looks at overall proposals
for Northern Ireland. Belfast City Council isn't directly represented on that."

LOAD-DATE: August 12, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

                   Copyright 2004 Century Newspapers Limited

                              92 of 301 DOCUMENTS

                                  Daily Record

                            August 10, 2004, Tuesday

TRANSSEXUAL TELLS OF CAR TERROR ATTACK

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 135 words


A TRANSSEXUAL has told how she was hit by a man's car only hours after he
threatened to kill her.

Lisa-Anne Docherty, 34, formerly known as William Wotherspoon, said she was
hurled over the bonnet of her car after being struck by a vehicle driven by John
Stewart,51.

A fight then broke out between the two when Stewart rammed his car into an
embankment.

Docherty, of Holytown, Lanarkshire, was taken to hospital with severe bruising.

Wearing a blonde wig, blue jacket and skirt and silver jewellery, the former
paratrooper told Hamilton Sheriff Court that Stewart had earlier punched her in
the face at a car boot sale.

Stewart denies assaulting Docherty at the fruitmarket in Blochairn, Glasgow,
attempting to run her over and threatening her with a pickaxe. The trial
continues.

LOAD-DATE: August 10, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

            Copyright 2004 Scottish Daily Record & Sunday Mail Ltd.

                              93 of 301 DOCUMENTS

                          THE DAILY TELEGRAPH(LONDON)

                            August 10, 2004, Tuesday

Child's guide to surviving a terrorist attack Notebook

BYLINE: By Vicki Woods

SECTION: Features; Comment Pg. 18

LENGTH: 662 words

Her Majesty's Government finally posted me its important information on
Preparing for Emergencies, which I perused with keen interest yesterday over
elevenses. (I nearly wrote "over breakfast" for a minute there, but - alas - the
breakfast post is long gone down my way, along with foot-patrol policemen and
blokes in Barbours mooching round the fields with shotguns.)

The booklet is prettily designed, using lots of bright, upbeat colours and the
sort of fat, easy-to-read typeface that we're all familiar with from Where's
Spot? or The Ladybird Book of Romans in Britain. The tone is that of the nicest
possible teacher welcoming newbies to the Reading Corner, i.e. as reassuring as
you could wish. In fact, I started mentally spelling out the Big Words as if I
was reading to a five-year-old in Ther Slow Read-ers Group: "Wait for the
e-mer-gen-cy ser-vic-es to arrive and de-con-TAM-in-ate you."

The primary school tone is irritating, but at least it's spelled and punctuated
properly - I found no howlers to enrage fellow devotees of Eats, Shoots &
Leaves. I should stress that I got the English version, obviously, so a) I don't
know whether pedantic Punjabis will find anything to complain to Lynne Truss
about; and b) I don't know if the Reading Corner effect works in non-Roman
alphabets such as Farsi, Greek, Chinese or Gujarati. (Or Braille.)

Anyway, speaking as a taxpayer, is this expensive Don't panic! effort worth my
hard-earned money? Ha ha! You tell me. The section on "Bombs", for example,
makes fairytale reading. If "trapped in debris", you should "stay close to a
wall and tap on pipes so that rescuers can hear you". There now.

If apocalypse descends, children, there WILL be rescuers, and if you tap on
pipes, they will come. Erm - are you near a pipe at all? Try and get a foot
free.  *The Government's booklet ignores all the new terrors that I keep reading
about in the papers: Prozac in the nation's drinking water, or the Hitchcockian
phenomenon of attack-birds that are terrorising Belsize Park (seagulls) and
suburban Kent (carrion crows tearing windscreen wipers off cars).

Round here, our attack birds are an explosion of wood pigeons that have been
annoyingly gobbling up my grass seed as it struggles to germinate in the
drought. (Now it's all been washed away by the monsoons.) My husband used to
blast pigeons with his air rifle, but he can't do that any more, because a) men
with guns are forbidden; b) the gunsight is skewed and all those little shops
that could have mended it have disappeared, along with the breakfast post.
*Unlike many women I know, I've enjoyed the Football Association hoohah
immensely. Everything I ever thought about the FA turns out to be true. It's the
richest football association in the world; its coach is the highest paid (win or
lose); its chief executive earns (or used to) pounds 400,000 a year; its
directors fly first class to footie matches, feast on baked meats and have their
fill of floozies. The FA is a gravy train that exists for no other reason than
to provide jobs for the boys.

I've nothing against jobs for the boys, truly. After a lifetime of civil
service, it's nice to think Sir Humphrey may end up with a bigger gong and
something in a box at Sadler's Wells. But in these toffs-to-the-wall times, both
gongs and opera are way too snobby. And - to my absolute horror - the Guardian
mentioned last week that ALASTAIR CAMPBELL might make a good press officer for
the FA.

No! Please! I've been having nightmares for weeks about the possibility of
Campbell. I prayed nobody would be daft enough to bring up his name and give
folk ideas. I always hated him under his previous hat: as Tony's grand vizier,
gatekeeper and sin-eater. I'm much happier now he's scuffing around in trainers
and jogging pants, looking like a loser. The idea of Alastair being allowed -
nay, invited - to truffle at the porkiest of British pork-barrels makes me want
to put my head in a bucket.

LOAD-DATE: August 10, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 2004 Telegraph Group Limited

                              94 of 301 DOCUMENTS

                              Liverpool Daily Echo

                            August 10, 2004, Tuesday

TWO KILLED IN ISTANBUL HOTEL TERROR ATTACKS

SECTION: First Edition; NEWS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 186 words


TWO people were killed when an explosion rocked a small Istanbul hotel in an
apparent terrorist attack early today.

There were more blasts at a second hotel and a gas plant in the Turkish city.
Seven people were hurt in the blasts.

Workers at the Pars hotel in the Laleli district, home to budget hotels for
eastern European tourists, said they received an anonymous call 10 minutes
before the explosion saying there was a bomb in a room.

At the second target, the Star Holiday Hotel in the Sultanahmet area, where the
Ottoman Topkapi Palace is located, glass and chunks of concrete littered the
streets.

"It appears to be a terrorist attack, " police chief Celalettin Cerrah said.

Police confirmed two people were killed at the Pars hotel, while there were
injuries at both hotels.

A gas leak at the liquefied petroleum gas plant was under control, said Tayfun
Demiroren, an official at the plant.

The blasts happened a few miles from the hotel where the US Olympic men's
basketball team was staying during the final stop of its pre-Olympic tour. The
team was unaware of the blasts.

LOAD-DATE: August 11, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: BLAST: Rubble was strewn across the street after the hotel explosions
in Istanbul early today

TYPE: Newspaper

               Copyright 2004 The Liverpool Daily Post & Echo Ltd

                              95 of 301 DOCUMENTS

                     Belfast News Letter (Northern Ireland)

                           August 11, 2004, Wednesday

TERRORISTS CLAIM RESPONSIBILITY FOR ISTANBUL ATTACKS

SECTION: 1st Edition; NEWS; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 118 words


AN Islamic militant group claimed responsibility for yesterday's bombings in
Istanbul, Turkey, that killed two people and wounded 11.

The Abu Hafs al-Masri Brigades said the attacks were the first of a "wave of
operations" in European countries and that worse was to come.

"Istanbul is the opening for the bloody war we promised the Europeans," said a
statement on an Islamic website known for publishing messages of militant
groups.

The blasts rocked two small Istanbul hotels and a gas plant.

Workers at the Pars hotel in the Laleli district said they received an anonymous
call saying there was a bomb in a room only 10 minutes before the explosion
killed an Iranian and a Turk.

LOAD-DATE: August 12, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

                   Copyright 2004 Century Newspapers Limited

                              96 of 301 DOCUMENTS

                  UK Newsquest Regional Press - This is Dorset

                                August 11, 2004

Police hunt car in terror attack

BYLINE: Julie Magee (julie.magee@bournemouthecho.co.uk)

LENGTH: 241 words

DATELINE: Dorset


A PEDESTRIAN escaped with his life after being deliberately mown down by a
driver in Boscombe at the weekend.

Azatullah Feruz 36 who is from Afghanistan was on the pavement in St Swithuns
Road near its junction with Frances Road at 4am on Saturday when a red car
ploughed into him.

DC Dave Colomb of Bournemouth CID said: "The car reversed and then drove at him
again pinning him against a hedge."

Mr Feruz who lives in Bournemouth suffered a broken leg as well as cuts and
bruises.

DC Colomb said: "This was a deliberate act by the driver and the victim was no
doubt very frightened.

"We're looking for an old red car similar to a Peugeot 405 with possibly one
headlight which was not working.

"The victim managed to break two of the vehicle's windows.

"I believe the car contained a number of people and it's possible they were not
English. I need help from the public to piece together exactly what happened and
I also need to find the car used in this assault.

"At the moment I know of no obvious motive for the attack so it's important for
witnesses to get in touch immediately if they know about the assault or the
damaged red car. They can ring me in confidence as a matter of urgency."

Mr Feruz is being treated at Poole hospital.

*Witnesses should ring the Dorset police appeals line on 01202 222500 or the
free and anonymous Crimestoppers line on 0800 555111.

First published: August 10

LOAD-DATE: August 11, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: VICTIM: Azatullah Feruz recovers in Poole Hospital on Monday;

                  Copyright 2004 NewsQuest Media Group Limited

                              97 of 301 DOCUMENTS

                                 Yorkshire Post

                                August 11, 2004

Bishop seeks to deflect any backlash after terror attack

SOURCE: Yorkshire Post

LENGTH: 346 words


Sally Cope THE Bishop of Bradford is to host a series of meetings to find a way
of protecting the city's Muslim population from a backlash in the event of a
terrorist attack in Britain. The move follows warnings by the Metropolitan
Police earlier this year that it is not a question of if there will be a
terrorist attack in the UK but when. Now the bishop, David James, has teamed up
with the University of Bradford Peace Studies department and West Yorkshire
Police to host the meetings aimed at drawing up a plan to minimise the impact of
such an attack on Bradford's Asian community. Bishop James said: "After
discussions with Professor Jenny Pearce from Peace Studies and Insp Martin
Baines, we think this warning should be taken seriously. "We are aware that the
implications for Bradford with its large Pakistani Muslim population could be
serious. An atrocity in the UK might require technical and emergency
co-ordination - for which the city is preparing - but we also think it requires
co-ordination in terms of community impact. "Such an act may lead some to blame
particular religious or ethnic groups. It could lead to increased tensions as
those groups feel under threat, as well as escalating tensions in certain
neighbourhoods, schools and workplaces".

 Four meetings are to take place at the bishop's home in Heaton, Bradford,
during September involving people from the city's education and business sectors
and community and voluntary groups. Bishop James said: "Martin will offer a
possible plausible scenario to concentrate our thinking, with Jenny as a
resource drawing on her experience of conflicts and creating the conditions for
peace. "We hope that such a discussion with each of the key sectors in the city
might cumulatively contribute to an embryonic action plan and network which
could be activated in the event of such a tragedy occurring".

 Insp Baines said: "This series of meetings is an important contribution to
maintaining peace and harmony within the district, working towards bringing
greater cohesion between districts.

LOAD-DATE: August 25, 2004

                       Copyright 2004 Johnston Press Plc

                              98 of 301 DOCUMENTS

                                Grantham Journal

                                August 12, 2004

FIREFIGHTERS TRAINED FOR TERRORIST ATTACK

LENGTH: 212 words


Terrorism is never far away from the headlines, but if the worst ever happens a
team of specially trained, well-equipped Grantham firefighters are ready.

Grantham is one of 99 stations in the UK to have an incident response unit.

Should the worst happen the massive truck stationed at Grantham, supported by 10
fully-manned fire engines from across the county, could be dispatched anywhere
in the country.

Station Officer Dave Lord said his men are trained and ready.

He said one of the reasons Lincolnshire was given two response units - the other
is at Lincoln - is the county's contribution to UK Search and Rescue, a team
which flies to natural disasters such as the earthquakes in Turkey, Macedonia
and India.

He said: "Eighty per cent of full-time and retained men have been on the initial
training course. The truck carries its own fork-lift truck and 15 of our men are
licensed to drive it, while 10 can drive the unit.

"Two men from this station have been to train in Texas, spending three weeks on
collapsed structure training, learning how buildings fall and how to use the
tools."

The Grantham unit is for decontamination and can deal with 200 people an hour.
It contains chemicals, sterile suits, water boilers and tents.


LOAD-DATE: August 13, 2004

LANGUAGE: English

                           © 2004 Johnston Press Plc

                              99 of 301 DOCUMENTS

                            The Independent (London)

                           August 12, 2004, Thursday

FREEDOM FROM TERRORIST ATTACK IS ALSO A HUMAN RIGHT

BYLINE: DAVID BLUNKETT

SECTION: First Edition; COMMENT; Pg. 31

LENGTH: 829 words


The Court of Appeal upheld my decisions yesterday to certify and detain 10
suspected international terrorists. That such a court says I acted lawfully
should put an end to concerns in this newspaper and elsewhere that the detainees
rights' are not being respected. But I'm not holding my breath - we have been
here before.

At every stage, the detainees have made full use of their rights to go through a
proper court process. Rightly so; I'm not impinging on that at all. My
commitment to civil and human rights is as profound as any leader writer of The
Independent or its readers.

The same court and the Special Immigration Appeals Commission (SIAC), a superior
court chaired by a High Court judge, has already agreed that the powers are
justified because there is a state of public emergency.

As Home Secretary, I've a duty to protect our society and that's why I never
cease to be amazed at how a newspaper which describes itself as "independent"
can take such a rigid and stereotyped stance on justice and home affairs
matters.

I deeply resent the inference in The Independent's leading article on Tuesday
that taking decisive measures to protect the country against terrorism - and the
measures have protected us - is somehow to deny those very rights.

I want a rational debate but based on facts. It is wrong to claim - as the media
has this week - only 14 people have been charged out of more than 600 arrested
under counter-terrorism laws.

In fact, about half of those who have been picked up under the Terrorism Act
2000 have been charged with differing offences - 97 of them under the Terrorism
Act itself. Under the Anti-Terrorism, Crime and Security Act (ATCSA) 2001, 17
people have been certified, 12 of them are still detained.

The decision to detain any individual under the ATCSA is made on the basis of
detailed information, not on a personal whim. It is not as David Blunkett that I
act to protect national security, but as Home Secretary. And act I must to
prevent foreign nationals who we believe are international terrorists, but are
unable to deport, from remaining at large in the UK.

Ironically, given the criticism of me, the only reason I've not removed
detainees from the UK is because I'm protecting their human rights - they might
face torture or death if removed to their homelands.

To protect our human rights we are not allowing them on to our streets in order
to resume the activities that they were engaged in before they were picked up.

Yes, they have been detained in circumstances where they cannot currently be
removed - but to compare our situation with Guantanamo Bay is absurd and not
comparing like with like. We have built in safeguards on the face of the
legislation, they have a right to lawyer, they can leave the country at any time
if they choose to do so, there is an appeal process. Our courts can release
detainees on bail (as they have done in one case), or release them entirely (as
they have done in another). Of course, yesterday's judgement underlines this
reality.

With the facts, it is clear that comparison is not only erroneous and
mischievous, but also dangerous. It leaves your newspaper's readers ill-
informed, likely to be prejudiced against what we're doing, and to believe the
vitriol directed against me about authoritarianism and lack of commitment to
human rights.

As The Independent suggested, it's absolutely right that we put security and
targeted intelligence first. That is what we are doing. We used the
Anti-Terrorism Crime and Security Act so sparingly and proportionately since 11
September 2001 that the suggestion of hundreds of people being held without
trial has proved completely untrue.

But when the security service have done their job - and I pay tribute to them in
doing it so well - what am I to do with those that they have identified as a
risk to national security? Ask the same security service to spend day and night
actually tracking them in the hope they will be able to stop them before a major
tragedy occurs? I'm not going to gamble with people's lives.

As Home Secretary, I must balance legal theory with the practical job of
protecting people. I don't say I have all the answers to these complicated
questions, indeed that's why I started a public consultation in February. I,
along with my ministers, have met several times with the Muslim Council of
Britain to discuss the use of counter-terrorism powers. We are also engaging the
Muslim community in the ongoing consultation process on the future of such
powers.

In our democracy, everyone, including newspaper leader writers, have an
obligation to do more than simply cynically oppose whatever it is that the
Government does in these difficult and sensitive areas.

If you disagree with the status quo there is an obligation to engage positively
both in presenting the true situation and coming up with realistic alternatives.

The writer is Home Secretary

LOAD-DATE: August 12, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 2004 Independent Print Ltd

                              100 of 301 DOCUMENTS

             UK Newsquest Regional Press - This is Buckinghamshire

                                August 12, 2004

Muslim leader attacks terror suspect raids

BYLINE: Sitala Peek

LENGTH: 377 words

DATELINE: Buckinghamshire


The Chesham leader of the UK Muslim Parliament has spoken out against the
government's terror arrests.

Under the Terrorism Act 2000 police are empowered to arrest individuals they
reasonably suspect of being terrorists and may detain them for up to seven days.

According to Dr Ghaysuddin Siddiqui this practice is unfairly targeting Muslims
and demonizing their community on a national scale.

He said: "This is a very sad development which has been going on for far too
long.

"It is counterproductive to demonise the Muslim community in this way as the
majority of those arrested under this act come from Muslim backgrounds."

Dr Siddiqui told the Free Press that he thought the media drama surrounding
these arrests unfairly represented the vast majority of those people who were
subsequently released without charge.

He added: "I have been contacted by people whose sons have been shown on
television being arrested in connection with terrorism charges.

"What the media doesn't show is these same people being released how are they
meant to go back and face the rest of their community? Mud sticks you know."

Between September 11 2001 and June 2004 there have been 699 suspected terrorist
arrests of these 61 people have been charged and 15 convicted.

A spokesman from the Home Office said: "We do not see the Muslim community as a
threat and Muslim leaders have repeatedly condemned all forms of terrorism.

"The great majority are peaceful and law-abiding and we make a clear distinction
between extremist individuals and the faith they claim to be associated with.

He added: "The Home Secretary is in regular contact with Muslim organisations
including the Muslim Council for Britain and we are engaged in ongoing
consultations with the Muslim community to re-assure them that counter terrorism
powers are being used proportionately and appropriately."

Dr Siddiqui welcomed the initiative of Chesham Mayor Cllr Mohammed Bhatti (Cons
Newtown) who is organising an interfaith conference scheduled for September 19
in Chesham to reassure people from all faiths about the current situation in his
home town.

He said: "This is an excellent idea and I would always welcome any initiatives
that help to build bridges."

LOAD-DATE: August 12, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                  Copyright 2004 NewsQuest Media Group Limited

                              101 of 301 DOCUMENTS

               UK Newsquest Regional Press - This is Local London

                                August 12, 2004

Muslim leader attacks terror suspect raids

BYLINE: Sitala Peek

LENGTH: 378 words


The Chesham leader of the UK Muslim Parliament has spoken out against the
government's terror arrests.

Under the Terrorism Act 2000 police are empowered to arrest individuals they
reasonably suspect of being terrorists and may detain them for up to seven days.

According to Dr Ghaysuddin Siddiqui this practice is unfairly targeting Muslims
and demonizing their community on a national scale.

He said: "This is a very sad development which has been going on for far too
long.

"It is counterproductive to demonise the Muslim community in this way as the
majority of those arrested under this act come from Muslim backgrounds."

Dr Siddiqui told the Free Press that he thought the media drama surrounding
these arrests unfairly represented the vast majority of those people who were
subsequently released without charge.

He added: "I have been contacted by people whose sons have been shown on
television being arrested in connection with terrorism charges.

"What the media doesn't show is these same people being released how are they
meant to go back and face the rest of their community? Mud sticks you know."

Between September 11 2001 and June 2004 there have been 699 suspected terrorist
arrests of these 61 people have been charged and 15 convicted.

A spokesman from the Home Office said: "We do not see the Muslim community as a
threat and Muslim leaders have repeatedly condemned all forms of terrorism.

"The great majority are peaceful and law-abiding and we make a clear distinction
between extremist individuals and the faith they claim to be associated with.

He added: "The Home Secretary is in regular contact with Muslim organisations
including the Muslim Council for Britain and we are engaged in ongoing
consultations with the Muslim community to re-assure them that counter terrorism
powers are being used proportionately and appropriately."

Dr Siddiqui welcomed the initiative of Chesham Mayor Cllr Mohammed Bhatti (Cons
Newtown) who is organising an interfaith conference scheduled for September 19
in Chesham to reassure people from all faiths about the current situation in his
home town.

He said: "This is an excellent idea and I would always welcome any initiatives
that help to build bridges."

LOAD-DATE: August 12, 2004

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: News

                  Copyright 2004 NewsQuest Media Group Limited

                              102 of 301 DOCUMENTS

                              Liverpool Daily Echo

                            August 13, 2004, Friday

SPECTACULAR' MERSEY TARGETS FOR TERROR;
 LEADERS PLOT ATTACK RESPONSE

BYLINE: CLARE USHER

SECTION: First Edition; NEWS; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 339 words


MERSEYSIDE could prove to have "spectacular targets" for terrorists, an
emergency planning meeting heard yesterday.

Transport leaders met to put arrangements in place to help the region cope with
a terrorist attack.

Merseytravel chief executive Neil Scales told the meeting of the city's
potential "spectacular targets" for terrorists and said emergency preparations
will be tested during working hours in the coming months.

Evacuation across the Mersey by ferry could form part of the strategy if power
supplies failed, grid locking roads and stopping trains.

Motorists in the two cross river tunnels would be made aware of any threat by
Merseytravel managers interrupting radio stations and broadcasting alerts.

Mr Scales said the plans have been formulated because of the growing awareness
of a terror threat after the atrocities of September 11, 2001, in New York.

He added: "Following the 9/11 event and recognising some of our operations would
make spectacular targets, what we wanted to do is set up a group to respond to
any external event like a bomb threat.

"We have got a major emergency response process and also action plans in view of
anything like this happening. "

To test the plans, there will be exercises in working hours which Merseytravel
workers will know about beforehand.

The aim is to be able to inform all key people in all divisions of Merseytravel
about an emergency within 10 minutes with a structured system of home, office
and mobile phone numbers in place. The most likely effect of a terrorist attack
would be a power failure which would "cripple the city" said Mr Scales.

"We can move 2, 000 people every half hour across the river because they would
not be affected by a power failure.

"Merseyrail Electric is fed power from more than one point on the grid, so
trains would slow but not stop and we could make sure no more went into tunnels.

Plans are already in place for disasters with an emergency simulation involving
tunnel police every two years.

LOAD-DATE: August 14, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: WARNING: Neil Scales

TYPE: Newspaper

               Copyright 2004 The Liverpool Daily Post & Echo Ltd

                              103 of 301 DOCUMENTS

                               The Times (London)

                            August 13, 2004, Friday

Cap on cruise ship insurance claim after terror attack

SECTION: Features; 35

LENGTH: 743 words


COURT OF APPEAL. Published August 13, 2004. IF P and C Insurance Ltd (Publ) v
Silversea Cruises Ltd and Others. Before Lord Justice Ward, Lord Justice Mummery
and Lord Justice Rix. Judgment July 2, 2004

On the proper construction of a limitation clause in a policy of insurance, a
claim by operators of luxury cruise ships for loss of business and/or
anticipated profit arising out of the terrorist attack on the twin towers of the
former World Trade Centre in New York on September 11, 2001, was to be limited
to US$ 5,000,000.

Thus the issue as to whether those events constituted "acts of war" or "armed
conflict" did not have to be decided.

The Court of Appeal so held, inter alia, in a reserved judgment dismissing to a
large extent an appeal by the defendants, Silversea Cruises Ltd, Silver Cloud
Shipping Co SA, Silver Wind Shipping Co SA, Silversea New Build One Ltd and
Silversea New Build Tw Ltd, from the judgment of Mr Justice Tomlinson on March
19, 2003, that their claims against the underwriters, IF P and C Insurance Ltd
(Publ), should succeed in an amount that had to be limited to US$ 5,000,000.

Mr Julian Flaux, QC and Mr Simon Picken for the ships' operators; Mr Michael
Swainston, QC and Mr Alan MacLean for the underwriters.

LORD JUSTICE RIX said that he claim was made as a consequence of the events of
9/11 by the operators of four luxury cruise ships under a policy of insurance.

It was to provide protection under three separate but closely connected covers:
(i) against loss of income from listed perils that included acts of war and
armed conflict; (ii) loss of anticipated income from government warnings
regarding acts of war, expressly stated as limited to "US $ 5,000,000 in the
annual aggregate and in all", and (iii) reasonable costs of compensating
passengers for cancellations.

The general terms and conditions provided for "each vessel to be a separate
insurance".

The significant issue that remained for decision on the appeal was whether the
US$ 5,000,000 limit was per vessel or, as the judge held, across the fleet as a
whole.

The underwriters had now conceded liability under (ii) for US$ 5,000,000 but
denied any liability under (i).

The essential basis on which the operators' claim was built was the loss of
business which 9/11 and the subsequent US government warnings had engendered.
Loss of business was not disputed although its extent remained controversial.

Cover under (i) and (iii) related to interference with the operations of a
single vessel whereas (ii) was concerned with loss of market on the whole range
of future cruises.

The operators' case that the US$ 5,000,000 limit applied to each vessel relied
on the general provision that "each vessel to be a separate insurance".

The judge was correct in rejecting their argument. The cover premium provision
for (ii) was a fleet premium that operated across the fleet as a whole.

Thus in the circumstances it was not necessary to decide the large and important
issues as to whether the events of 9/11, leading within one month to the
invasion of Afghanistan, was a candidate for an act of war or armed conflict
within the perils listed under cover (i).

However some comment was relevant. In an international law context the
consequences of decisions as to war or peace raised important considerations:
were terrorists to be treated as combatants or criminals?

But in the context of an insurance policy covering worldwide operations of
cruise vessels, considerable weight had to be given to the concern of
businessmen and their insurers over the scale and ramifications of conflict.

Everyone would agree that 9/11 was an example of a terrorist attack, but that
did not answer the question whether it amounted to something more.

LORD JUSTICE WARD, concurring, said that he did not believe that men of
business, underwriters and the insured would have said as they watched the
aircraft smashing into the twin towers, "That's an act of war!"

They would have concluded that they were terrorist acts from extremist groups
harbouring grievances against the United States.

Moreover "armed conflict" had to have an air of continuity about it; not present
in what were essentially random attacks. Those, however, were tentative views on
fascinating an important questions that it was not necessary to rule on.

Lord Justice Mummery agreed.

Solicitors: Clifford Chance LLP; Clyde & Co.


LOAD-DATE: August 13, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                    Copyright 2004 Times Newspapers Limited

                              104 of 301 DOCUMENTS

                                 Bath Chronicle

                                August 14, 2004

Man jailed for terror attack

SECTION: News; Courts; CrownCourt; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 375 words


A Bath man has been jailed after terrorising people brandishing a knife in a
Cornish town.  Kevin Palmer was sentenced to three years and nine months behind
bars after appearing before Truro Crown Court on Thursday.

The 43-year-old was initially charged with attempted murder, but this was
dropped after he pleaded guilty to burglary with intent to inflict grievous
bodily harm.

The judge heard how Palmer, who was living in Walcot Terrace, Bath, at the time
of the offence, travelled to Falmouth because he was concerned for the safety of
two people he claimed were open to abuse and "at the mercy of two junkies".

While in the Cornish town on April 12, he rode a bicycle down Marlborough Road,
brandishing a knife and shouting death threats. He then cycled up to a house and
forced his way through the front door.

Once inside he attacked the occupant, who the court named as Mr Parker, with a
metal rod while calling out "you're dead, you're dead". Palmer also injured
himself during the attack and was left with blood pouring down his face and
clothes.

Sentencing Palmer, Judge Nicholas Vincent described his actions as "ugly and
extremely dangerous".

"You were totally out of control," he said.

The court heard that Palmer had drunk a litre of gin before embarking on his
reign of terror.

A 17-year-old passer-by was so concerned when he saw Palmer ride past him in the
street that he alerted a police officer.

The judge praised the quick-thinking teenager and awarded him £200 from public
funds in recognition of his public-spirited actions.

Policewoman Lisa Kevern, who was the first on the scene, was also praised.

She bravely used her baton to disarm Palmer of the knife.

Judge Vincent said: "Plainly recognising she was in a position of potential
danger, she none the less, before the arrival of other officers, put her own
safety second and went to try to resolve the dispute.

"She acted very much in the interests of the public." Andrew Maitland, defending
Palmer, told the court that his client had drunk heavily throughout his life.

He said that at the time of the offence, his client was suffering from
frustration, anxiety and depression which pushed him to the edge.


LOAD-DATE: August 15, 2004 1408BATHCH234manja

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: News

                      Copyright 2004 Bristol United Press

                              105 of 301 DOCUMENTS

                                   The People

                            August 15, 2004, Sunday

ISLAMIC TERRORISTS PLOT IRISH ATTACKS

BYLINE: EXCLUSIVE BY SINEAD KING

SECTION: Eire Edition; NEWS; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 79 words


GARDA detectives are being helped by the FBI to target Al Quaida cells in
Dublin, The Irish People has learned.

US and British authorities fear terror gangs are using Ireland as a base to
launch attacks on their interests.

Garda officers have aleady had some success in smashing a terror cell in the
capital.

But one Garda source revealed: "We have good information that other Islamic
terror groups are hoping to use Ireland as a base to launch attacks."

LOAD-DATE: August 15, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

                            Copyright 2004 MGN Ltd.

                              106 of 301 DOCUMENTS

                     The Guardian (London) - Final Edition

                                August 16, 2004

Mountain terror summit 'planned attack on US'

BYLINE: Suzanne Goldenberg in Washington

SECTION: Guardian Foreign Pages, Pg. 11

LENGTH: 275 words


The suspected masterminds of a plot to attack America's financial institutions
attended a secret meeting last March in the remote and lawless mountains of
Pakistan, it was reported yesterday.

The mountain-top conclave of senior al-Qaida leaders allegedly included Abu Musa
al-Hindi, arrested in north-west London earlier this month, and Adnan
el-Shukrijumah, who is described by counter-terrorism officials as the next
Muhammad Atta - the lead hijacker in the September 11 terror attacks.

Also at the summit was Muhammad Junaid Babar, a Pakistani American who
apparently arrived with waterproof socks and other supplies for his comrades.

"The personalities involved, the operations, the fact that a major explosives
expert came here and went back, all this was extremely significant, the
Pakistani president, Pervez Musharaff, told Time magazine.

General Musharaff said the meeting allowed US and Pakistani counter-terrorism
officials their first glimpse of an emerging generation of al-Qaida leadership.

It also gave them strong indications that al-Qaida was planning to strike again,
and deepened anticipation of an attack on US soil before November's elections.

Authorities believe the Wazi-ristan gathering could have played a similar
function to the gathering in Kuala Lumpur in 2000, which served as a crucial
planning session for the attacks on the World Trade Centre and the Pentagon.

"This was a meeting of a bunch of cold-blooded killers who are very skilled at
what they do and have an intense desire to inflict an awful lot of pain and
suffering on America," an official familiar with the summit told Time.


LOAD-DATE: August 16, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 2004 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              107 of 301 DOCUMENTS

                               Belfast Telegraph

                                August 18, 2004

Eight charged with plotting terror attacks

BYLINE: By Jason Bennetto

LENGTH: 608 words


Eight suspected terrorists were charged yesterday with conspiring to commit
murder and plotting to launch radioactive, explosive or chemical attacks in
Britain.

One of the men was also charged with having reconnaissance plans which could
have been used in an attack on four financial institutions in the United States,
including the New York Stock Exchange. Another man was accused of having an
extract from the Terrorist's Handbook which contained information on preparing
chemicals and explosives.

The men were among 13 people arrested on 3 August in raids by MI5 and the
Metropolitan Police anti-terrorist branch in London, Bushey in Hertfordshire,
Luton in Bedfordshire and Blackburn, Lancashire. They were charged yesterday at
the high-security Paddington Green police station in London after being held for
two weeks.

The eight men are Dhiren Barot, 32, from Willesden, north-west London, Omar
Abdul Rehman, 20, from Bushey, Zia Ul Haq, 25, of Paddington, west London, Abdul
Aziz Jalil, 31, from Luton, Nadeem Tarmohammed, 26, from Willesden, Mohammed
Naveed Bhatti, 24, from Harrow, north-west London, Quaisar Shaffi, 25, from
Willesden, and Junade Feroze, from Blackburn. They are charged with conspiring
together and with unknown suspects to murder unnamed "other persons" between
January 2000 and August this year.

A second charge accuses them of plotting to use "radioactive materials, toxic
gases, chemicals and explosives" to cause disruption, fear or injury. Both
charges were made under the Criminal Law Act 1977 and carry a maximum life
sentence.

Mr Barot is charged with having "reconnaissance plans" for the International
Monetary Fund building in Washington, the Citigroup financial institution office
and the Stock Exchange in New York, which would be likely to be useful to a
person committing, or preparing, an act of terrorism. As well as the alleged
plans - which he is accused of obtaining between 19 February 2001, and 4 August,
2004 - he is charged with having two notebooks containing information on
explosives, poisons, and chemicals. He is also charged, along with Mr
Tarmohammed, of possessing a "reconnaissance plan" of the Prudential building in
New Jersey, "likely to be useful to a person committing or preparing an act of
terrorism", and two notebooks containing material on explosives, poisons, and
chemicals.

Mr Shaffi was further charged under the Terrorism Act with possessing an extract
from the Terrorist's Handbook. All eight will appear in custody at Bow Street
magistrates' court, which will be sitting at Belmarsh high-security court in
south-east London today.

A ninth man, Matthew Philip Monks, 32, from Sudbury, north-west London, who was
arrested during the anti-terror raids two weeks ago and questioned at Paddington
Green, was charged with possessing a banned weapon.

Mudassar Arani, solicitor for seven of the men, claimed they had been
psychologically abused by being held in solitary confinement and, in some cases,
stopped from reading the Koran. She also claimed that one of her clients had
been hit in the face by police when he was arrested.

Under new law in the Terrorism Act 2000, suspects can be held for a maximum of
two weeks from the time of arrest. The nine suspects were held for the full 14
days and were charged after time allowed to question them without charge ran
out.

David Blunkett, the Home Secretary, said yesterday that he was being kept fully
informed about the case. "I have been kept regularly updated throughout the
investigations," he said. "We must now let the judicial process take its
course."

Source: Independent


LOAD-DATE: August 26, 2004

LANGUAGE: English

TYPE: Paper

                Copyright 2004 Belfast Telegraph Newspapers Ltd.

                              108 of 301 DOCUMENTS

                                  The Express

                                August 18, 2004

BRITISH GANG ACCUSED OF PLANNING RADIOACTIVE AND CHEMICAL ATTACKS; BIGGEST
TERROR PLOT SINCE 9/11

BYLINE: By Richard Moriarty and Paul Broster

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 57 words


EIGHT suspected British terrorists were last night accused of plotting a wave of
strikes to rival the September 11 atrocities.

The men, thought to be members of a ruthless Al Qaeda cell, were said to be
preparing to launch a "dirty bomb".

Detailed plans concerning their intended targets were allegedly found following
their arrests.

LOAD-DATE: August 18, 2004

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Newspaper

                       Copyright 2004 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS

                              109 of 301 DOCUMENTS

                            The Independent (London)

                           August 18, 2004, Wednesday

EIGHT ACCUSED OF PLOTTING UK TERROR ATTACK

BYLINE: JASON BENNETTO CRIME CORRESPONDENT Prudential Plaza, the financial
firm's world headquarters, in Newark, New Jersey, was said to be a target AP

SECTION: First Edition; NEWS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 603 words


EIGHT SUSPECTED terrorists were charged yesterday with conspiring to commit
murder and plotting to launch radioactive, explosive or chemical attacks in
Britain.

One of the men was also charged with having reconnaissance plans which could
have been used in an attack on four financial institutions in the United States,
including the New York Stock Exchange. Another man was accused of having an
extract from the Terrorist's Handbook which contained information on preparing
chemicals and explosives.

The men were among 13 people arrested on 3 August in raids by MI5 and the
Metropolitan Police anti-terrorist branch in London, Bushey in Hertfordshire,
Luton in Bedfordshire and Blackburn, Lancashire. They were charged yesterday at
the high-security Paddington Green police station in London after being held for
two weeks.

The eight men are Dhiren Barot, 32, from Willesden, north-west London, Omar
Abdul Rehman, 20, from Bushey, Zia Ul Haq, 25, of Paddington, west London, Abdul
Aziz Jalil, 31, from Luton, Nadeem Tarmohammed, 26, from Willesden, Mohammed
Naveed Bhatti, 24, from Harrow, north-west London, Quaisar Shaffi, 25, from
Willesden, and Junade Feroze, from Blackburn. They are charged with conspiring
together and with unknown suspects to murder unnamed "other persons" between
January 2000 and August this year.

A second charge accuses them of plotting to use "radioactive materials, toxic
gases, chemicals and explosives" to cause disruption, fear or injury. Both
charges were made under the Criminal Law Act 1977 and carry a maximum life
sentence.

Mr Barot is charged with having "reconnaissance plans" for the International
Monetary Fund building in Washington, the Citigroup financial institution office
and the Stock Exchange in New York which would be likely to be useful to a
person committing, or preparing, an act of terrorism. As well as the alleged
plans - which he is accused of obtaining between 19 February 2001, and 4 August,
2004 - he is charged with having two notebooks containing information on
explosives, poisons, and chemicals. He is also charged, along with Mr
Tarmohammed, of possessing a "reconnaissance plan" of the Prudential building in
New Jersey, "likely to be useful to a person committing or preparing an act of
terrorism", and two notebooks containing material on explosives, poisons, and
chemicals.

Mr Shaffi was further charged under the Terrorism Act with possessing an extract
from the Terrorist's Handbook. All eight will appear in custody at Bow Street
magistrates' court, which will be sitting at Belmarsh high- security court in
south-east London today.

A ninth man, Matthew Philip Monks, 32, from Sudbury, north-west London, who was
arrested during the anti-terror raids two weeks ago and questioned at Paddington
Green was charged with possessing a banned weapon.

Mudassar Arani, solicitor for seven of the men, claimed they had been
psychologically abused by being held in solitary confinement and, in some cases,
stopped from reading the Koran. She also claimed that one of her clients had
been hit in the face by police when he was arrested.

Under new law in the Terrorism Act 2000, suspects can be held for a maximum of
two weeks from the time of arrest. The nine suspects were held for the full 14
days and were charged after time allowed to question them without charge ran
out.

David Blunkett, the Home Secretary, said yesterday that he was being kept fully
informed about the case. "I have been kept regularly updated throughout the
investigations," he said. "We must now let the judicial process take its
course."

LOAD-DATE: August 18, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 2004 Independent Print Ltd

                              110 of 301 DOCUMENTS

                                Evening Gazette

                            August 20, 2004, Friday

DRIVER TELLS OF HIS KNIFE ATTACK TERROR

BYLINE: SARAH STACK

SECTION: Final Edition; NEWS LOCAL; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 350 words


A Terrified motorist had a knife held to his back as three men raided his car at
a set of traffic lights in Middlesbrough.

The man drifted in and out of consciousness as one of the men grabbed him
tightly around the neck on Cargo Fleet Lane.

The 24-year-old was left shaken from the incident, which left him badly bruised
on his face and upper body.

His car radio, wallet and mobile phone were taken in the attack shortly after
11.30pm on Monday at the junction of the Trunk Road.

Detectives investigating the assault are warning motorists to keep their doors
locked and valuables out of sight.

The Middlesbrough mother of the victim has today slammed those who committed the
crime and witnesses for not coming to her son's aid.

She said the incident happened next to a busy fish and chip shop, where
customers must have seen what was happening.

She said: "Three men jumped in his car while another man and a woman stood next
to it.

"One of them got in the back, held him around the neck and told him he had a
knife through the back of his chair which he would push through his spine.

"They took his belongings and tried to take the car keys but they snapped in the
ignition."

She fears a gang may target another motorist at the junction.

She added: "He fell unconscious but came through again while they were still in
the car.

"When they left he used some pliers to start the car and drove home. He was
really shook up and you can still see the marks from where he was held around
his neck.

"I can't believe this sort of thing can happen to someone while they are driving
home, you just don't expect it at all. People in the chip shop must have seen
what was happening, but decided not to get involved."

A Cleveland Police spokeswoman said police inquiries are continuing and warned
both male and female drivers to be wary when driving alone.

She said: "The priority crime team at Middlesbrough are investigating the attack
and appealing for any information or witnesses to come forward."

* Contact Det Sgt Simon Hurwood on 01642 303126.

LOAD-DATE: August 20, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Newspaper

                    Copyright 2004 Gazette Media Company Ltd

                              111 of 301 DOCUMENTS

                               Lincolnshire Echo

                                August 20, 2004

Terror attack units ready for action

SECTION: News; Other; Others; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 444 words


Specialist decontamination units to cope with nuclear, chemical or biological
terrorist attacks have been brought to Lincolnshire.  Two 19-tonne trucks
containing gas-tight clothing, shower units and state-of-the-art radio equipment
are now on permanent stand-by in the county.

The kit, which cost £800,000, is part of the Government's response to the
September 11 terrorist attacks in America.

Hundreds of county firefighters are now undergoing hours of extra training to
learn how to use the equipment.

In addition, early next year, the county will also take delivery of an Urban
Search and Rescue Unit, which can search through the wreckage of bombed
buildings to find casualties.

Today station officer Barry Livsey said the newly-arrived units can be driven to
the scene of an emergency to create a half-acre decontamination unit which can
cope with up to 200 people every two hours.

"This is the culmination of what the Government has been working on since
September 11," he said.

"There are 80 of these units scattered around the country, and the idea is that
we would all travel to an incident if it was big enough." Immediately after
September 11, the Government realised there was no way a large number of people
could be decontaminated if there was a chemical, biological or nuclear attack.

Hastily assembled intermediate decontamination units were issued, one to
Lincoln, but it has taken until now to design and build the permanent units.

The two trucks will be based at fire stations in Lincoln and Grantham.

SO Livsey said: "When it arrives at the scene of an emergency, it clears a space
big enough to set up and then uses the forklift truck on the back to start
unloading.

"The truck contains three tents, one of which is a disrobe unit, one is showers
and one is a drying area, so we can decontaminate whole factories or towns full
of people if the need arises." Lincoln's firefighters have been undergoing three
months of training to enable them to use the unit, which includes using the
hi-tech computer systems on board, assembling the kit and recognising what the
casualties are suffering from.

Leading firefighter Andy Dixon said: "We have a computer on board which is
connected to the national chemical database so we can find out exactly what we
are dealing with.

"The radios are all mainscheme which are designed never to go off the air, even
during a terrorist attack or a full-out war.

"There is a global positioning satellite system which shows us exactly where we
are on a map and where the incident is. It will also show us rendez-vous points
if we have to travel in convoy."

LOAD-DATE: August 21, 2004

LANGUAGE: English

                        Copyright 2004 Lincolnshire Echo

                              112 of 301 DOCUMENTS

               UK Newsquest Regional Press - This is Local London

                                August 20, 2004

Thugs launch terror attack on doorstep

BYLINE: Johnathan Schroder

LENGTH: 373 words


A MAN suffering from multiple sclerosis (MS) has spoken of his terror when he
was attacked on his doorstep in Tottenham.

The seemingly unprovoked and vicious assault by men armed with a meat cleaver
and handgun has left the 25-year-old from Devonshire Road fearing for his life.

The victim who does not wish to be named can only walk with the assistance of
crutches and has only recently regained his confidence to venture beyond his
home having struggled to come to terms with his diagnosis.

Last week's attack has been a massive personal setback. He said: "I answered the
door and straight away the men attacked me. Before I knew it I was down on the
ground with a meat cleaver to my throat.

"It was horrific I feel numb and really scared. I was only just regaining my
confidence and this is something I definitely did not need."

He added: "Every time the door goes now I'm jumpy I can't see why this happened
to me."

The three men knocked at his door earlier in the day but left when they
discovered he was out.

When they returned in the afternoon as soon as they saw him they launched their
attack.

The victim's mother cousin and girlfriend started screaming and tried to fight
them off. His mother was hit with the butt of the meat cleaver and his cousin
was threatened with a silver handgun.

The attackers fled the scene when the commotion attracted attention from
neighbours.

The victim was left with minor injuries.

DC Grant Anderson said: "The victim was in genuine fear for his life and still
is. This has hit his confidence hard."

The attackers were aged between 25 and 30.

The man armed with the meat cleaver was slim black clean-shaven and around 5ft
10ins tall. He wore an oversized navy blue hooded top.

The gunman was white of medium to stocky build with dark short spiky gelled hair
and a thin well-trimmed goatee beard. He had a chubby face and wore a baby-blue
woollen jumper light blue denim jeans and white trainers.

The third man who was not armed was black and around 5ft 10ins tall.

The incident happened around 3pm last Wednesday. If you were a witness or have
any information call police on 8345 0763 or Crimestoppers anonymously on 0800
555111.

LOAD-DATE: August 20, 2004

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: News

                  Copyright 2004 NewsQuest Media Group Limited

                              113 of 301 DOCUMENTS

                             The News of the World

                                August 22, 2004

TERROR ATTACK ON GANG WIFE'S HOME

BYLINE: Caroline Cullen

SECTION: EXCLUSIVE

LENGTH: 715 words


    Bricks lobbed through windows

    THE MONK'S estranged sister- in-law has been targeted by brick-wielding
thugs.

    Terrified Jane Hutch and sons Ross, 12, and mentally handicapped Gavin, 25,
were left cowering in their beds after windows were smashed in the 3am raid.

    Cops raced to their Drumcondra, Dublin, home after traumatised Jane dialled
999 from a bedside phone.

    But the mum-of-five-who split from Dublin ex-mobster Gerry's brother Edward
two-and-a-half years ago-fears it is only a matter of time before the vandals
return.

    Jane, whose home was sprayed with black paint seven months ago, said: "It
has happened before and it will probably happen again."

    Explosion

    The attack came within days of Jane approaching the Irish News of the World
with information about an ongoing feud with the family.

    Afterwards the 47-year-old told us: "I couldn't see who did it but I believe
I know who is behind it."

    The first Jane and her sons knew of the attack was when they were woken in
the middle of the night on Friday 13th by the noise of smashing glass.

    "It was like an explosion," said Jane. "I heard a huge bang and then another
one and I thought someone was in the house downstairs."

    Petrified, Jane immediately reached for the telephone in her bedroom and
dialled 999.

    She said: "The phone is beside me so I told the boys not to move until I had
phoned the guards. I was afraid to look out of the window-I thought it would be
too dangerous so we all stayed still for a few minutes.

    "We didn't go downstairs until we were sure the gardai were on their way. My
main reaction at the time was to keep down and out of the way of the windows."

    Strangely, Jane's pet Jack Russell failed to bark a warning before the
attack.

    Jane said: "The dog usually barks at strangers but he didn't make a sound.

    "I don't know if he was too afraid with all the noise or maybe he knew
someone.

    "I'm just glad that it was only the house that was damaged-no-one's life was
lost."

    A neighbour living behind Jane told cops he "saw one fella with dark hair
running away from the house" and later saw a taxi drive away. But he wasn't
close enough to be able to identify the thugs.

    Cops later interviewed Jane about the attack and a forensic team searched
the scene for clues.

    But although no-one was hurt in the attack, Jane and her sons have been left
traumatised.

    Jane, who married Edward Hutch when she was 18, said: "I have been through
hell and back."

    And she revealed she is scared of getting a taxi-in case the driver turns
out to be her brother-in-law, Gerry 'The Monk' Hutch, left.

    Taxi-driving is the latest career of the 40- year-old ex-armed robber, who
claims to have quit his life of crime.

    He was last convicted in 1983 after amassing a reputed 5million fortune
during his years of crime.

    He was forced to pay half of that to the Criminal Assets Bureau, who handed
over the 2.5million to the tax department in the late 1990s.

    During his criminal heyday, gardai pinpointed The Monk-so-called because of
his no-drinking, no-smoking lifestyle-as the prime suspect in two of the biggest
heists in the history of the country.

    One was the Brinks Allied robbery in January 1996, when IRPounds 3million
(3.8million) was stolen from a security cash depot. The other was a IRPounds
1.7million (2.2million) raid on a security van in Marino in 1997.

    Ironically, being forced by CAB to cough up tax on his ill-gotten gains
opened the door to The Monk becoming a taxi driver.

    Laws

    He had been refused a cab licence in 1999 because he hadn't paid tax. But
after he coughed up, the authorities relented. De-regulation in 2001 also
relaxed the rules.

    But The Monk's move into earning legal wages may be short-lived. Industry
chiefs bringing in new laws have pledged to clean up the taxi business by
revoking the permits of people with serious crime links.

    Not that the loss of wages is likely to bother The Monk. The keen boxing fan
has enough put by to live in upmarket Clontarf and send his children to private
schools.

    He often sponsors local boxing tournaments in Dublin's inner city.

    And cops believe he still has more than 3million stashed away in hidden bank
acccounts and property owned by associates.


LOAD-DATE: September 1, 2004

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Newspaper

                    Copyright 2004 NEWS GROUP NEWSPAPERS LTD

                              114 of 301 DOCUMENTS

                               The Sunday Herald

                                August 22, 2004

The Students of terror;The terrible consequences of the 9/11 attacks are well
enough known, but a controversial new film focuses on the hopes and fears of the
men who planned the atrocities. Torcuil Crichton reports

BYLINE: Torcuil Crichton

SECTION: Pg. 7

LENGTH: 1603 words


THE 9/11 Commission report into the cataclysmic events that have shaped this
century starts with the lines: "Tuesday September 11, 2001, dawned temperate and
nearly cloudless in the eastern United States. Millions of men and women readied
themselves for work for those heading to an airport, weather conditions could
not have been better for a safe and pleasant journey. Among the travellers were
Mohammed Atta and Abdul Aziz al Omari, who arrived at the airport in Portland,
Maine."

Even though we know what happens next, the unfolding, stylised narrative of the
official US version of history reads like the opening of a thriller novel. But
then the events of that day transcended our imagination to such an extent that
it shouldn't come as any surprise that they lend themselves to dramatic
treatment.

Within the context of the day that changed the world, a new Channel 4 drama
documentary, Hamburg Cell, which opens at the Edinburgh International Film
Festival this week, deals with the unknowns, the enigmas at the heart of the
terror.

For all the media saturation, three years on from the event we have learned
remarkably little about the men who carried out the act. They are dead and
demonised and that is it, until now.

Although it treads warily around the 3000 dead, the film doesn't concentrate on
the victims, instead it looks at the perpetrators, trying to imagine what drove
the young men who hijacked the planes to send themselves and so many others to
their death.

Anything that gives our demons a human disguise will be attacked and, with what
on the surface is remarkably little material to go on, the film will inevitably
draw ire, particularly if a deal with US cable channel HBO for American
distribution goes ahead.

None of that ire should distract from what it has achieved.

Constructed out of out of what is available - from court transcripts and
interviews with family and friends - Hamburg Cell delivers the first dramatic
glimpse into the human heart and mind of al-Qaeda terrorism.

The film plot follows three of the 19 conspirators who boarded the planes:
Mohammed Atta, who flew the first plane into the World Trade Centre; Ziad
Jarrah, who was at the controls of United Airlines Flight 93 when it crashed in
Pennsylvania; and Ramzi bin-al Shibh, who co-ordinated events from the eponymous
city in northern Germany, having been refused a visa to enter the US.

Taking a full circle from the morning of September 11 back to Hamburg, several
years earlier, the film introduces Atta, Jarrah and bin-al Shibh as students in
Germany. It then traces their journey of radicalisation from study groups in
Hamburg, where they meet the dark and strange Atta and are drawn deep into a
corrupted form of Islam and on to the training camps of Afghanistan.

From there we follow their trajectory to martyrdom on that clear and crisp
Tuesday morning, each one dealing with the doubt and crisis that accompanies
their mission. We see plainly, for the first time perhaps, the political,
psychological, religious and personal influences that propelled them to mass
murder. We also witness the fine detail of their lives.

Before he boarded flight 93 Jarrah phoned his girlfriend from the airport,
repeating, "I love you, I love you" down the line to Germany. Atta, generally
viewed as the ruthless leader of the Hamburg cell, appealed to his domineering
father to allow him to stay in Egypt instead of returning to his al-Qaeda
handlers in Germany.

It was these humanising details, already extensively researched by his co
-writer Alice Perman that drew award-winning Irish writer Ronan Bennett to the
project, having initially rejected an approach by the film's producers Mentom

"Here's the paradox," says Bennett, a novelist and screenwriter who's dealt with
the twin themes of terror and love in previous works, such as the TV film Rebel
Heart, documenting the Troubles in Ireland. ''On the morning of September 11,
these 19 guys got on to four different planes and killed 3000 people. Yet anyone
who had any kind of dealings with them liked them. At the flight school in
America Jarrah was a popular character, his flight instructor liked him, they
invited him to a beach party.

"Likewise Ramzi bin-al Shibh, who would have been one of the pilots but couldn't
get a visa to the US, was well liked in Germany. At parties children gravitated
towards him. These were people who were normal and funny and liked, and somehow
you have to reconcile the image of the fanatic with the reality that comes
across from the research material."

Bennett's been accused of portraying terrorists sympathetically in his work, but
he insists that everything you see on screen in Hamburg Cell can be accounted
for.

Incredibly detailed research by Perman began before that fateful September in
2001 and carried on into the post-production phase. There were extensive
interviews with the Jarrah family, with people who knew the members of the
Hamburg cell in Germany and those who met them in America.

New evidence of who the 9/11 terrorists really were is still emerging all the
time. In Germany the retrial of Mounir el-Motassadeq, a Moroccan accused of
providing logistical help to the Hamburg cell, has changed perceptions of the
conspirators again.

"If the evidence wasn't there for it, we didn't write it," says Bennett. "We
don't know word for word what was said, but some of it we know from evidence in
the first trial of Motassadeq."

What's remarkable about this highly political and inevitably controversial
subject is the cool, dispassionate way in which the film handles the material.
Director Antonia Bird is noted for presenting raw emotion on screen in films
like Priest and Face. This time the emotion is spare, the style a restrained,
semi-documentary approach that only emphasises the humanity of the protagonists.

Of course there's passion in the plot. The political and religious fervour of
the radicalised Muslims in Hamburg and the turbulent love affair between Jarrah
and his secular Turkish girlfriend Aysis help drive the story forward.

Having to stick strictly to what was known and verifiable was also a major
challenge in keeping the dramatic flow of the story going. "Frustratingly, I
would come to a point in the script where I would say that what needs to happen
now is a meeting between these two characters," says Bennett. "Trouble is Alice
would be sitting beside me and saying that one of them was in Egypt and the
other is in Berlin and there's no evidence of them meeting."

Similarly, other stories about the hijackers, about the drinking and womanising
in the final days before the attack have been left out. "There are a couple of
stories that Shehi, Atta and one other were in a bar in Florida and there was a
row over the girls. A barmaid came forward a few days afterwards and claimed
she'd seen them. We asked ourselves how likely it was that they would be
recognised and we decided against it."

Jarrah is seen drinking beer, to Atta's disapproval, but these are verifiable
incidents. "I think the film gives a realistic evaluation of who they were,"
says Bennett.

This even-handed, almost dispassionate treatment of the terrorists might give
the film documentary authenticity, but it may all have been a mask. Jarrah's
pretence to his girlfriend that they would be married and have children in
particular symbolises the deceit that the bombers were involved in.

Bennett thinks it is more complex than that. "Some of these guys volunteered for
martyrdom in 1999. The way I look at is that they had two years to live with the
fact that one day they were going to kill themselves. Leaving aside the morality
of it, the psychological forces operating on an individual must have made it a
hell of a burden to bear.

"I doubt they could have survived that without doubt, torment and failure of
nerve. We know from the 9/11 Commission report that there were doubts about
Jarrah. He went back to Germany, the other conspirators tried to keep his
relationship with Aysel on track. Was he imagining this other life with her so
that he could armour himself against reality?"

Two nights before the flights Jarrah was stopped by police for speeding and
issued with a citation for a court appearance, which begs the question that
consciously, or otherwise he wanted to get caught. The truth is that we don't
know.

We can only be certain of a few things, says Bennett. "They didn't have that
evil gleam in their eye that gives away the screen baddie, they weren't born
with suicide bomber DNA. Something persuaded these guys to do what they did.
They were ordinary people, more like us than we'd care to imagine or admit. It
doesn't do any good to pretend otherwise."

Hamburg Cell premieres at the Edinburgh International Film Festival on Wednesday
at UGC 8, at 7.30pm, and is then screened again on Thursday. It will be
onChannel 4, September 2, at 9pm

'They weren't born with suicide bomber DNA. They were ordinary people, more like
us than we'd care to imagine or admit'

Name: Mohammed Atta

Born: September 1, 1969, Egypt

Occupation: Urban planning student

9/11 role: Believed to have led attack on US; flew the first plane into World
Trade Centre.

Name: Ramzi bin-al Shibh

Born: May 1, 1972, Yemen

Occupation: Political refugee

9/11 role: Provided logistical support after he was refused entry to US.

Name: Ziad Jarrah

Born: May 11, 1975, Lebanon

Occupation: Aeronautical student

9/11 role: Was at the controls of the plane which crashed in Pennsylvania.

LOAD-DATE: August 24, 2004

LANGUAGE: English

GRAPHIC: Some of the scenes from the Channel 4 docu-drama Hamburg Cell which
follows the training and preparation of the 9/11 suicide bombers in the run-up
to the attacks which left New York's World Trade Centre devastated Main
photograph: Robert Clark

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                Copyright 2004 Scottish Media Newspapers Limited

                              115 of 301 DOCUMENTS

                            Nottingham Evening Post

                                August 25, 2004

Two jets in 'terror attacks'

SECTION: News; 999; Terrorism; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 121 words


At least 89 people died when one plane plummeted to the ground and the other
broke up in mid-air after issuing a hijack alert.  Both had flown out of
Moscow's Domodedovo airport within 40 minutes of each other and got into trouble
at about 11pm local time (7pm GMT).

The first plane, carrying 46 people, crashed about 110 miles south of Moscow as
it headed to Volgograd.

The second was flying to the Black Sea resort Sochi, where President Putin is
staying. It sent out a hijack signal before breaking up in mid-air, killing 43
people.

There are fears the crashes could be the work of terrorists from the war-torn
southern province of Chechnya, where elections are being held in a few days'
time.


LOAD-DATE: August 26, 2004

LANGUAGE: English

                     Copyright 2004 Nottingham Evening Post

                              116 of 301 DOCUMENTS

                        Western Morning News (Plymouth)

                                August 25, 2004

Terror suspects jailed for attacks

SECTION: News; 999; Others; Pg. 41

LENGTH: 435 words


Uzbekistan's Supreme Court yesterday sentenced 15 al Qaida-linked Islamic
militants to up to 18 years in prison for a series of bombings that killed at
least 47 people earlier this year. Furkat Yusupov, 24, and Farkhad Kazakbayev,
22 - described as the most active members of the al Qaida-linked group Jamoat -
were each sentenced to 18 years in prison in Tashkent. Eleven other men were
sentenced to jail terms ranging from 11 to 16 years, while the wives of the two
suicide bombers were sentenced to six years and ten years.  Tourists recover THE
UK tour operator responsible for a party of Britons injured in a horse stampede
in Norway spoke yesterday of its shock at the accident. Those hurt yesterday
were among a group of 49 tourists returning by horse-drawn carriage from the
Briksdal glacier in western Norway. Fifteen Britons were thrown to the ground
when one horse bolted and panicked the others, causing the carts to overturn
near the village of Stryn. Last night, 13 people were still being treated in
hospitals around the area and four were described as suffering serious but not
life threatening injuries.

Prisoner exchange AFGHAN President Hamid Karzai agreed yesterday to repatriate
about 400 Pakistanis, held for more than two years in grim Afghan jails for
fighting with the Taliban, in exchange for the release of nearly 250 Afghans. He
also praised Pakistan's efforts in fighting al Qaida, despite lingering fears of
cross-border attacks by insurgents who could sabotage landmark Afghan
presidential elections in October. The planned prisoner exchange follows
complaints from a UN human rights expert who said at the weekend that an
estimated 725 former Taliban fighters, many of them Pakistanis, are held in
"inhuman" conditions in Afghanistan and that there is no legal basis to continue
their imprisonment.

Fischer court defeat JAPAN'S Justice Ministry yesterday rejected former chess
champion Bobby Fischer's demand for protection as a political refugee, instead
issuing an order to deport him. Fischer is wanted in the United States for
violating international sanctions against Yugoslavia in 1992, but a spokeswoman
for the Justice Ministry, Yoshiko Miyazaki, would not say when Fischer would be
deported or where he would be sent.

Quake rocks Games AN earthquake rattled Olympic venues in and around the Greek
capital yesterday. The Athens Geodynamic Institute confirmed that there was a
tremor, but did not have any details and did not immediately know the epicentre
or the magnitude of the quake. There were no reports of either injuries or
damage.


LOAD-DATE: August 26, 2004

LANGUAGE: English

                      Copyright 2004 Western Morning News

                              117 of 301 DOCUMENTS

                             Yorkshire Evening Post

                                August 26, 2004

Rape terror of sex attack mum

SOURCE: Yorkshire Evening Post

LENGTH: 268 words


By Mark Lavery


A YOUNG mother today told how she feared she would be raped as she fought off a
sex attacker.

The 20-year-old was assaulted twice as she walked on playing fields at Redhill
Rugby League Club's ground on Carlyle Crescent, Airedale, Castleford.

The attacker initially ran away after indecently assaulting the woman, but
returned before she had time to run away and assaulted her again during the
incident between 4 and 4.30pm on Tuesday.

He then escaped down an alleyway leading to Hopwood Grove.

The mum of a four-month-old baby girl told the Yorkshire Evening Post: I thought
if he gets me on the floor he is either going to rape me or beat me up so I
kicked him on the shins and he ran off.

Her attacker is described as a white youth aged between 15 and 17 and around 5ft
5ins tall.

Det Con Brian Woodhouse of Pontefract CID, said: This was a cowardly attack on a
lone woman who bravely fought back.

Police say the teenager was wearing a white T-shirt with a red number 10 on the
back, black tracksuit bottoms, white trainers and a blue baseball cap.

They are not linking the incident to a recent rape and sex assault in Pontefract
and Castleford.

A 16-year-old girl was raped in an alleyway that links Carlton Street and
Welbeck Street in Castleford at 4am last Wednesday.

And a 17-year-old girl was sexually assaulted in a ginnel known as Bluebell
Steps near Pontefract town centre just after 8.30pm on Saturday, August 14.

Anyone with information is asked to call Pontefract CID on 01977 601085 or
Crimestoppers, in confidence, on 0800 555111.

LOAD-DATE: October 31, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                       Copyright 2004 Johnston Press Plc

                              118 of 301 DOCUMENTS



                          Airline Industry Information

                                August 27, 2004

European insurers want to exclude liability for certain terrorist attacks

LENGTH: 144 words


AIRLINE INDUSTRY INFORMATION-©1997-2004 M2 COMMUNICATIONS LTD

Insurance companies in Europe are reportedly looking to exclude certain
terrorist risks from aviation policies.

A number of insurance industry sources have been quoted as saying that the
insurers want to change airline policies to rule out liability for attacks that
use chemical, biological or nuclear materials.

If the insurers are successful in excluding their liability for such terror
attacks it could mean that governments will have to provide cover for these
risks instead.

A spokesperson for the International Air Transport Association (IATA), quoted by
Reuters, said that governments should take over such responsibility, noting that
the airline association considered terrorism to be a question of national
security, not aviation security.

(Comments on this story may be sent to aii.feedback@m2.com)

LOAD-DATE: August 27, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH; ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newsletter


                     Copyright  2004 M2 Communications Ltd
                              All rights reserved

                              119 of 301 DOCUMENTS

                                  Daily Record

                           August 28, 2004, Saturday

FAMILY IN TERROR AFTER GUN ATTACK

SECTION: SPORT; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 159 words


A MYSTERY gunman has left a mother and her two kids terrified after an attack on
their home.

Bullets were fired through a window of the isolated bungalow near Dingwall, in
Ross-shire, as the young family slept.

They have now gone into hiding and police admit they are baffled by the
apparently motiveless attack.

Separated Fiona Matheson woke up in her home at Heights of Brae on Thursday to
find the bullet hole in the window.

She and her 10-year--old daughter and 14-year-old son fled soon after.

Her mum Betty MacKenzie, who lives nearby, said: 'No one was hurt, thank
goodness. Fiona is upset but otherwise she and the kids are OK.

'Up until this, I've never been scared of anything - but I'll be locking my
doors every night now.'

Yesterday, Detective Inspector Gus MacPherson said: 'At the very least this was
a reckless act. We don't know for certain it was a deliberate act but it doesn't
look like an accident.'

LOAD-DATE: August 28, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: WINDOW: Bullet hole

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

            Copyright 2004 Scottish Daily Record & Sunday Mail Ltd.

                              120 of 301 DOCUMENTS

                              Liverpool Daily Echo

                           August 28, 2004, Saturday

TERRORIST ATTACKS COST ONLY POUNDS 30, 000'

SECTION: First Edition; NEWS; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 144 words


THE Al-Qaida terror network spent less than pounds 30, 000 on each of its major
attacks except the September 11 suicide hijackings.

One of its hallmarks is using readily available items such as mobile phones and
knives as weapons, a United Nations report says.

The report released by a team monitoring the implementation of UN sanctions
against al Qaida and the Taliban detailed just how little it cost al-Qaida to
mount operations.

The report said the March attacks in the Spanish capital Madrid in which nearly
10 simultaneous bombs exploded on four commuter trains, cost about pounds 6, 000
to carry out. The blasts killed 191 people, in Spain's worst terror attack.

Only the sophisticated attacks in the United States on September 11, 2001 using
four hijacked aircraft "required significant funding of over six figures", the
report said.

LOAD-DATE: August 29, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Newspaper

               Copyright 2004 The Liverpool Daily Post & Echo Ltd

                              121 of 301 DOCUMENTS

                                  Western Mail

                           August 28, 2004, Saturday

RUSSIAN CRASHES CONFIRMED AS TERROR ATTACKS

SECTION: First Edition; NEWS; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 427 words


Russian investigators declared yesterday that a terrorist act downed one of the
two planes in this week's near simultaneous crashes after the wreckage revealed
traces of a high explosive used in past attacks blamed on Chechen separatists.

A website connected to Islamic militants, meanwhile, claimed the crashes that
killed 90 were retaliation for Russia's ongoing war in Chechnya, and warned it
was only the first in a series of planned operations.

Russian officials also announced that they were investigating the backgrounds of
two female passengers with Chechen names who booked tickets on both flights at
the last minute and who were the only victims whose relatives have not contacted
authorities.

The first official confirmation that terrorists infiltrated Russia's civil
aviation industry - a transport sector that is essential in this sprawling
nation - prompted only a muted response in the country, with Russian officials
avoiding drastic measures such as closing airspace or grounding flights.

President Vladimir Putin made no public comment on the discovery of traces of
explosives. Russian officials also kept mum about who they think is behind the
attack, which came just days before Sunday's Kremlin-sponsored elections in
Chechnya and amid official warnings that rebels might try to flex their muscle
in a bid to discredit what analysts predict will be a highly managed vote.

The southbound planes took off from one of Russia's most modern airports,
Domodedovo, and fell to earth within minutes of each other on Tuesday night.

In the days since the crashes, Russian officials had repeatedly emphasised that
while terrorism was being considered, so were other options, including bad fuel
and human error.

However, a day after officials said terrorism was the main theory, a spokesman
for the Federal Security Service, Sergei Ignatchenko, went further.

'According to preliminary information, at least one of the air crashes has been
the result of a terrorist act,' Ignatchenko said.

Another service spokesman, Nikolai Zakharov, revealed that explosive experts
found hexogen in the scattered remains of a Tu-154 that carried 46 people.

Officials have said the high explosive was used in the 1999 apartment bombings
that killed some 300 people in Russia and were blamed on Chechen separatists.
Those bombings led in part to Putin's decision to send Russian troops back into
Chechnya.

No results from the other crash site, of a Tu-134 with 44 aboard, about 120
miles south of Moscow, have been announced.

LOAD-DATE: August 30, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Newspaper

                    Copyright 2004 Western Mail and Echo Ltd

                              122 of 301 DOCUMENTS

                            Mail on Sunday (London)

                                August 29, 2004

Private guards ready to shield Square Mile in terror attacks

BYLINE: HELEN DUNNE

SECTION: C1; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 561 words


POLICE chief Mike Bowron barely flinches when he hears an explosion outside his
office in Wood Street, just yards away from the medieval church of St Giles
Cripplegate in the City.

For the Assistant Commissioner of the City of London Police the blast marks the
conclusion of a training programme for private security guards who work within
the Square Mile.

They are taking part in Project Griffin named after the mythical winged monsters
whose statues guard the City's precincts which is part of the fight against
terrorism.

The blast was controlled by members of Scotland Yard's explosives division
holding a workshop on how they would deal with bombs found in the City.

Apparently, the security guards feel like they are meeting A-list celebrities.

The idea for the programme came to Bowron in the wake of September 11, when he
held a small seminar for police officers on how to manage bomb scenes, operate
cordons around major disaster areas and conduct reconnaissance.

With 862 fulltime policemen on the beat, there are more officers per head in the
City of London than anywhere else in Britain. But Bowron is aware of how
impotent even that number could prove if there were terrorist attacks. So he
decided to enrol the services of the professional security guards on his beat.

More than 2,000 are employed by City institutions, and almost one-third have so
far attended his course. 'The training gives a real bonding between policemen
and the security guards.

They do exactly the same course,' Bowron explains. 'It is a simple, almost
zero-cost application that enhances the security of people in London. This
project is doomed to succeed. It is the best thing that ever happened to me in
24 years as a policeman.'

One result of this co-operation is that in the event of an attack, the security
guards will stand side by side with policemen in a cordon, freeing up resources
to deal with other emergencies. The guards, who will wear special-yellow
tabards, have been taught how to contain a scene, secure it and organise
evacuation.

One of the lessons from September 11 was that evacuees needed something familiar
to focus on so the guards' tabards will have a velcro badge displaying their
employers' emblems.

'It sounds silly,' says one guard, 'but in New York our staff were emotional
when they spotted our company flag.

They felt comforted.' Bowron adds: 'Policemen are now starting to talk to
security men. The guards may notice, for example, if strange people are taking
photos of things they shouldn't, and feed that information back. We are now
picking up good intelligence quite regularly.' Bowron's control room shares
information with the security guards through a pager service and text messaging.

'The purpose is not to alarm them but to alert them,' he adds. 'The knowledge
creates stability. It prevents an overreaction.' There are thousands of CCTV
systems in the City, and automatic number plate recognition devices are situated
at each checkpoint.

If a suspicious car enters the Square Mile, police and security guards are
alerted and every stage of its journey is tracked by cameras. 'We are like a
swarm of wasps descending on the vehicle,' explains Bowron.

A guard says: ' September 11 brought security to the boardroom. The safety and
security of staff is now of prime concern.'

LOAD-DATE: August 31, 2004

LANGUAGE: English

GRAPHIC: ALERT: CITY POLICE ARE LIAISING WITH SECURITY GUARDS

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                   Copyright 2004 Associated Newspapers Ltd.

                              123 of 301 DOCUMENTS

                                  Morning Star

                                August 30, 2004

Yemeni court convicts 15 militants of taking part in terror attacks;

SECTION:  Pg. 3

LENGTH: 214 words


A YEMENI court convicted 15 militants at the weekend of involvement in terrorist
attacks on a French oil tanker and a helicopter carrying US oil workers, plus
plots to kill the US ambassador and Yemeni security officials.

The court sentenced one man - who was convicted of killing a Yemeni police
officer - to death and the others from three to 10 years in jail, while one was
tried in absentia.

The defendants vowed to appeal against their verdicts and sentences, which
officials said would include time already spent in detention. Some have been
detained for two years.

The marathon trial, which began on May 29, centred on the October 2002 bombing
of the French oil tanker Limburg off the Yemeni coast.

Two suicide bombers rammed an explosive-laden boat into the vessel, killing a
Bulgarian crew member and spilling 90,000 barrels of oil into the Gulf of Aden -
an operation very similar to the attack in Yemen on the USS Cole warship two
years earlier.

Since the trial began, the defendants, some of whom are believed to be linked to
al-Qaida, have accused authorities of not following proper procedures and
undermining their rights.

Often, lawyers and prosecutors hurled insults at each other and the defence team
repeatedly walked out in protest.

LOAD-DATE: September 2, 2004

               Copyright 2004 People's Press Printing Society Ltd

                              124 of 301 DOCUMENTS

                               The Times (London)

                            August 30, 2004, Monday

New terror attacks feared as Chechens go to polls

BYLINE: Jeremy Page in Grozny

SECTION: Overseas news; 12

LENGTH: 1023 words


CHECHNYA voted for a new President yesterday in an election overshadowed by
terrorist attacks that downed two airliners and a major rebel assault on Grozny
last week.

The Itar-Tass news agency quoted the head of the Chechen electoral commission
early today as saying that the Kremlin-backed Interior Minister, Alu Alkhanov,
was assured of victory.

He was credited with more than 75 per cent of the votes with 64.1 per cent
counted and was "the absolute leader," commission chief Abdul-Kerim Arsakhanov
said.

The capital was a virtual ghost town and at several polling stations visited by
The Times voters were outnumbered by Russian soldiers and pro-Moscow Chechen
militia.

One young Chechen blew himself up with a hand grenade after police stopped him
from approaching a polling station in Grozny, but nobody else was hurt,
witnesses said.

"People are afraid," said Ruslan Isakov, 36, as he waited to cast his vote in
the town of Soveletskaya. "We are tired of all this fighting. We want peace and
work and normal lives but many people are too frightened to vote."

Chechen rebels assassinated the last Moscow-backed President, Akhmad Kadyrov, in
a bomb attack in May and have pledged to kill whoever wins the election.

But the Kremlin hopes that the election will revive a plan to bring peace and
stability to Chechnya a decade after first sending in troops to prevent it
splitting from Russia.

The result of yesterday's poll, analysts said, were a foregone conclusion since
Moscow threw its weight behind Mr Alkhanov who has dominated coverage on
television. Posters and slogans urging Chechens to vote for him were plastered
all around the region on walls, trees and even military roadblocks.

Unsurprisingly, last night Sergei Abramov, Chechnya's interim President, said
that Mr Alkhanov had passed the 50 per cent threshold of votes needed for
victory. The result will be announced today.

Critics say that Mr Alkhanov, a political unknown until a few months ago, lacks
the experience and credibility either to deal with Moscow or to disarm rebels
who have staged increasingly audacious attacks in recent months.

"The authorities will be signing the death warrant of the man they pick," the
London-based rebel representative, Akhmed Zakayev, said in a recent statement.

"There will be no peace in the Caucasus until Russia ends its imperial
ambitions."

The Kremlin's peace plan has been hindered by a suicide-bomb attack on the
Moscow Metro, Mr Kadyrov's assassination and a rebel assault on the neighbouring
region of Ingushetia.

This month 250 rebels attacked Grozny, leaving up to 120 people dead. Then two
Russian airliners crashed almost simultaneously on Tuesday, killing 89 people.

Investigators say that they have found traces of explosives in the wreckage of
both aircraft, and although Chechen rebel leaders have denied any involvement
Russian officials say that they are the prime suspects.

President Putin, who ordered troops back into Chechnya as Prime Minister in
1999, appears determined to stick to his policy of "Chechenisation" despite the
rising violence.

"This is not about democracy in Chechnya. It is about survival," said Dmitri
Trenin, of the Moscow Carnegie Centre. "The alternative to holding an election
is to appoint a governor and place Chechnya under military rule. A lot of people
have argued for this since Kadyrov's death."

A month after Mr Kadyrov was killed, President Putin met Mr Alkhanov in the
Kremlin, making it clear that he was the chosen successor.

"I don't know anything about politics but I know Alkhanov has Putin's support.

Without that no President can do anything," said Kalsar Mazhagov, 73, after
voting for Mr Alkhanov.

The only truly popular candidate, Malik Saidullayev, a Moscow-based tycoon who
has spent millions of dollars on aid work in Chechnya, was disqualified last
month on a technicality. Mr Alkhanov, a career police officer, has promised to
rebuild the economy of a region crippled by unemployment, decrepit
infrastructure and almost non-existent welfare after a decade of fighting.

The Russian Government bolstered his cause by announcing that it was considering
allowing Chechnya to use all the revenue from its oil sales -a concession that
Mr Kadyrov was not granted.

But analysts say that Mr Alkhanov's priority should be to rein in Mr Kadyrov's
28-year-old son, Ramzan, who commands a private army of some 2,000 men. Ramzan
is believed to have presidential ambitions although he was too young to stand in
this election. Human rights groups and many Chechens accuse him of illegally
detaining, torturing and killing hundreds under his father's auspices.

He has also embarrassed Moscow by proposing to send troops to the breakaway
Georgian region of South Ossetia.

Required reading, T2, page 3 RESTLESS REPUBLIC DOGGED BY 10 YEARS OF VIOLENCE

* 1994: Dzhokhar Dudaev, the separatist Chechen president, declares
independence.

Boris Yeltsin, then the Russian President, sends troops into Chechnya, a
mountainous area in the Caucasus range. War followed

* 1996: After two years of mass hostage-taking by separatists, demoralised
Russian troops start to withdraw. Dudaev is killed and successive presidents are
unable to consolidate control of bickering local factions. The region is riven
by internal strife

* 1999: Vladimir Putin, then the Russian Prime Minister, sends troops into
Chechnya after blaming Chechen rebels for bombings in Russia that killed 300
people

* 2000: Putin, now President, appoints Akhmad Kadyrov, a former rebel fighter,
as President of Chechnya, to head a loyalist administration

* 2002: A siege in a Moscow theatre ends with 41 separatists and 129 civilians
dead, most killed by gas used by Russian forces. President Putin declares the
Chechen war over but terrorist attacks and suicide bombings continue

* 2004: Kadyrov is killed on May 9 in a bomb attack at a stadium in Grozny
during a Victory Day parade. Separatists are blamed. Alu Alkhanov, Chechnya's
Interior Minister, is Russia's favourite in the election to succeed Kadyrov


LOAD-DATE: August 30, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                    Copyright 2004 Times Newspapers Limited

                              125 of 301 DOCUMENTS

                                 Bath Chronicle

                                August 31, 2004

Mother of terror attack victim raps TV drama

BYLINE: Amy Wilson

SECTION: News; Consumer; Crazes; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 365 words


The Bath mother of a woman who died in the September 11 terror attacks has
condemned the timing of a TV drama on the disaster.  Sue Prothero, whose
35-year-old daughter Sarah Redheffer died when the first plane struck the north
tower of the World Trade Center, says The Hamburg Cell, being screened on
Channel 4 this Thursday, has been made too soon.

Mrs Redheffer, whose husband Eric is American, was organising a conference on
the 106th floor of the second tower, close to the top of the building, when the
terrorists struck.

Her parents, the Rev David Prothero, rector of Bathwick St Mary's Church, and
his wife Sue have held several events in the area in memory of their daughter
since the tragedy occurred.

They have met the families of other victims and now say the timing of the new
documentary is hurtful to all of those who suffered.

Mrs Prothero said: "It appalls me that anybody could put this on so soon.
Whether it has been made well, or fairly, or whatever, is completely irrelevant
to me or my family.

"It appalls me that somebody has said now is the time to do this, as if it were
over." The two-hour film re-enacts the known movements of the ringleaders as
they plotted attacks on the World Trade Center and the Pentagon.

Channel 4's head of documentaries Peter Dale, who commissioned the film, said:
"For the families it is always going to be uncomfortable viewing. They will
probably choose not to watch it, and I would completely respect that." After Mrs
Redheffer's death, the Protheros set up an appeal which raised around £10,000 to
help children throughout the world.

Half of it went to youngsters in Afghanistan and the other half was donated to
the Save the Children charity.

The British drama documentary tells how terrorist Ziad Jarrah helped hijack
United Airlines flight 93, which crashed in Pennsylvania.

Hamburg Cell follows Jarrah's journey from being a student in Hamburg, through
to his conversion to jihad and his death as a hijacker.

It was shown at Edinburgh International Film Festival last month, and director
Antonia Bird said she would be "really intrigued" to see how viewers reacted to
the movie.


LOAD-DATE: September 1, 2004 3108BATHCH355mothe

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: News

                      Copyright 2004 Bristol United Press

                              126 of 301 DOCUMENTS

                UK Newsquest Regional Press - This is Lancashire

                                August 31, 2004

Womans rat attack terror

LENGTH: 520 words


From the Evening News August 23 1904: AN extraordinary struggle with a rat is
reported from Sunderland.

Mrs Skinner wife of a laundry van man was engaged about her house when a very
large rat sprang at her. She threw it off but it returned to the attack and this
time sprang at her throat. After a struggle she threw it through an open window
into a yard where it was killed by a workman who had been attacted by her
screams. The woman is suffering severely from shock.

THE influx of visitors from Bolton and other industrial centres into the seaside
resorts was evident at the weekend. Morecambe was well-filled and 1 000 visitors
defied the wet elements on Monday by taking the turbine steamer to Douglas.
Stories are told of palmists being out of work and residents in the boarding and
lodging houses singing hymns to while the hours away.

From the Evening News August 23 1954: POSTPONED from July 17 because rain had
made the procession impossible Walkden Carnival opened on Saturday afternoon and
was soon cancelled again. Before all the half-mile procession had left the
assembly field one of the most severe storms of the summer broke out. There was
lightning thunder a deluge of rain and even hailstones.

THE Wanderers play Blackpool tonight and both sides include players who
contested the 1953 cup final. Bolton W: Hanson Ball Banks Wheeler Barrass
Edwards Holden Moir Lofthouse Hassall Webster. Blackpool: Farm Shimwell Garrett
Fenton Johnston Kelly Matthews Taylor Mortensen Brown Perry.

From the Evening News August 23 1979: MEMBERS of the Grey Mare Dahlia Society of
Harwood are keeping their fingers crossed for a bit of real summer weather to
boost the quality and quantity of blooms in their 20th annual show. The
organisers of the show in the Methodist Church Hall Tottington Road Harwood on
September 1 are hoping for more than 180 entries. Publicity secretary Philip
Yates said the cool and rainy weather was holding the dahlias back - they were
not opening as fast as they should and there were not as many blooms about.

THE hunt is on to trace former textile workers suffering from byssinosis the
industrial respiratory disease who may stand to benefit from new Government
legislation. The General Secretary of the Bolton and District Union of Textile
and Allied Workers Mr Joe Quinn said: "We are anxious to contact as many
potential claimants as possible."

From the Evening News August 23 1994: HEALTH bosses are investing more than £200
000 to tighten security at Bolton's hospitals. Orders have been placed for
closed circuit surveillance cameras state-of-the-art alarms and security patrols
to make sure the town's three main hospitals are protected all the year round.

COUNCILS could soon get powers to charge drivers for entering town and city
centres a government minister confirmed. Stephen Norris said the idea - aimed at
cutting traffic jams and exhaust pollution - was under consideration by the
Department of Transport. But whether it ever goes ahead depends on the necessary
computer technology being developed.

LOAD-DATE: September 1, 2004

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: News

                  Copyright 2004 NewsQuest Media Group Limited

                              127 of 301 DOCUMENTS



                                  M2 Presswire

                               September 1, 2004

UN: Secretary-General strongly condemns terrorist attack on Beersheba

LENGTH: 147 words


M2 PRESSWIRE-SEPTEMBER 1, 2004-UN: Secretary-General strongly condemns terrorist
attack on Beersheba ©1994-2004 M2 COMMUNICATIONS LTD

The following statement was issued today by the Spokesman for Secretary-General
Kofi Annan:

The Secretary-General strongly condemns the double terrorist attack today in the
Israeli city of Beersheba that killed at least 15 people and wounded many more.
He sends his deepest sympathy and condolences to the families of the victims.
The Secretary-General calls on the Palestinian Authority to do everything
possible to bring the perpetrators to justice and to put an end to such heinous
crimes.

(M2 Communications Ltd disclaims all liability for information provided within
M2 PressWIRE. Data supplied by named party/parties. Further information on M2
PressWIRE can be obtained at http://www.presswire.net on the world wide web.
Inquiries to info@m2.com).

LOAD-DATE: September 1, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH; ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSWIRE


                     Copyright  2004 Normans Media Limited
                              All rights reserved

                              128 of 301 DOCUMENTS



                                  M2 Presswire

                               September 1, 2004

UN: Secretary-General strongly condemns terrorist attack in Moscow subway

LENGTH: 145 words


M2 PRESSWIRE-SEPTEMBER 1, 2004-UN: Secretary-General strongly condemns terrorist
attack in Moscow subway ©1994-2004 M2 COMMUNICATIONS LTD

The following statement was issued today by the Spokesman for Secretary-General
Kofi Annan:

The Secretary-General was dismayed to learn of yet another terrorist attack in
the Russian Federation, this time at the Rizhskaya subway station in Moscow. He
condemns in strongest terms this criminal act which has resulted in the death
and injury of many innocent victims. The Secretary-General conveys his heartfelt
condolences to the Russian people and the families of the victims.

(M2 Communications Ltd disclaims all liability for information provided within
M2 PressWIRE. Data supplied by named party/parties. Further information on M2
PressWIRE can be obtained at http://www.presswire.net on the world wide web.
Inquiries to info@m2.com).

LOAD-DATE: September 1, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH; ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSWIRE


                     Copyright  2004 Normans Media Limited
                              All rights reserved

                              129 of 301 DOCUMENTS

                           Coventry Evening Telegraph

                          September 2, 2004, Thursday

16 KILLED IN SCHOOL TERROR ATTACK Parents' agony as dozens of children are taken
hostage; MUMS' DESPERATION: Parents have been outside the school all day and all
night, desperate for the safety of their children and (left) troops and police
marksmen surround the school in Belsan, North Ossetia

SECTION: First Edition; NEWS; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 292 words


HEAVILY-ARMED terrorists held more than 350 hostages including many young
children through the night at a Russian school. Up to 16 people have died,

Crowds of distraught relatives and townspeople waited helplessly for news of
their neighbours and loved ones, their distress sharpened by the sporadic rattle
of gunfire from the cordoned-off site.

The terrorists threatened to blow up the school if police storm it.

They have also refused to allow food and water into the building and have
threatened to kill 50 hostages for every one of their group that is killed.

About a dozen people managed to escape by hiding in a boiler room, but hundreds
of others were herded into the school gymnasium and children placed at windows
as human shields.

The seized school in Belsan, a town of about 30,000, is in North Ossetia near
the republic of Chechnya where rebels have been fighting Russian forces since
1999. Suspicion for the raid has fallen on Chechen militants although no claim
of responsibility has been made.

Casualty reports in the seizure varied, but one official said early today that
16 people were killed - 12 inside the school, two who died in hospital and two
others whose bodies still lay outside the school and could not be removed
because of gunfire. Thirteen others were wounded. Special forces carrying
assault rifles are encircling the school and the government is negotiating with
the terrorists.

Many parents spent the night at the town's cultural centre, a few hundred yards
from the school, weeping, pacing and trying to sleep.

"They're not telling us anything. It's awful, it's frightening." Svetlana
Tskayeva, whose daughter and three grandchildren aged 10, 6 and six months are
among the captives.

LOAD-DATE: September 3, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

                   Copyright 2004 Coventry Newspapers Limited

                              130 of 301 DOCUMENTS

                     The Guardian (London) - Final Edition

                               September 2, 2004

Russian Hostage Crisis: Russia calls emergency session at UN: Reaction Security
council move after four terror attacks

BYLINE: Nick Paton Walsh in Moscow

SECTION: Guardian Home Pages, Pg. 5

LENGTH: 604 words


Russia last night called an emergency session of the UN security council as it
sought to drum up international support for its battle against the sudden
upsurge in terrorist acts committed by suspected Chechen militants in the past
eight days.

Andrei Denisov, the Russian ambassador to the UN, requested the evening meeting
to secure formal international condemnation of the kidnapping of scores of
children in a school in southern Russia.

The White House was swift to offer Vladimir Putin support. "We stand with the
Russian people," a spokeswoman for George Bush said last night after the US
president put in a personal call to his Russian counterpart.

"Both leaders stressed their strong commitment to working together to defeat
global terrorism," the spokeswoman said, in a message the Kremlin interpreted as
an offer of American help in its own war on terror.

Yesterday's attack on the school in Beslan, North Ossetia, followed a suicide
bombing outside a Moscow metro station the previous day and last week's double
bombing of two passenger aircraft. More than 100 people have been killed.

Analysts said the UN move was aimed at shoring up international support for any
military action Russia might take against militant attacks.

Russia is unlikely to approach the UN for logistical support in any military
action, given its proud assertion that the Russian military can deal with the
Chechen problem. Yet a UN security council resolution backing Russia's right to
take military action to secure its population from the terrorist threat would
silence critics of its continuing military actions in Chechnya.

It could place any future mil itary activity on a par with Washington's decision
to invade Afghanistan after September 11, with which last week's double plane
crash has been compared.

The Kremlin had remained silent for hours after news of the attack on the Beslan
school, struggling to square its fiery rhetoric about vanquishing terrorists
with the potential public outrage at a bloody outcome to its second major
hostage crisis at the hands of militants in two years.

Just before news broke of the Beslan crisis, President Putin reiterated that
Russia would have no truck with terrorists. Reacting to the suicide bombing in
Moscow, he said he was prepared to talk to anyone in Chechnya, bar separatists
and terrorists.

"There can be no dialogue with those who wanted to fight and who made war a way
of earning money," he said. "We shall fight against them, throw them in prisons
and destroy them".

President Putin's top two law enforcement ministers, security service head
Nikolai Patrushev and interior minister Rashid Nurgaliyev, were sent to the
Beslan school to take command of the rescue operation.

The Kremlin faced considerable public criticism for its handling of the boldest
terrorist act to hit the Putin presidency: the October 2002 Dubrovka theatre
siege in which more than 800 theatre-goers were taken hostage by 40 gunmen.

The siege was ended when special forces released a gas into the building,
killing 129 hostages and the gunmen. The victims' relatives remain incensed at
how opaque the events of the siege remain and the poor medical care given to
their relatives immediately after the event.

Mr Putin's opinion poll rating slumped recently to its lowest since he sought
re-election in March. His image as a man of stability and order lifts him above
his competitors, yet he cannot afford another show of Russian force to end in
hundreds more dead hostages.

Links www.chechnya-mfa.info/ Chechen republic site

guardian.co.uk/russia


LOAD-DATE: September 2, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 2004 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              131 of 301 DOCUMENTS

              UK Newsquest Regional Press - This is The Cotswolds

                               September 2, 2004

County council unprepared for terrorist attack

LENGTH: 272 words

DATELINE: The Cotswolds


A WORLD War Two explosives expert has expressed his fears that Gloucestershire
County Council is unprepared for possible terrorist attack.

Roy Jenkins from Weston-Subedge also says that the council has not replied to a
letter he wrote in March requesting information about emergency plans for the
area.

He believes the council's lack of planning and adequate training for its staff
could lead to disaster. "The government is to send out millions of leaflets
telling householders how to prepare for a terrorist attack - but what is being
done to train local government people?" he asked.

He said that his worries began back in the era of frequent IRA bomb alerts in
the 1970s when he spotted an abandoned package outside a county council
building. "When I reported it to a member of staff he immediately opened it to
have a look. He did it so quickly I could not stop him. As someone trained to
handle explosives as a soldier in World War Two I was appalled."

He now wants the council to answer his fears that its employees are no better
trained today than they were then.

"Posters are not enough. The printed word is no substitute for training which
need not take long.

"Has the county any such training programme? Has it nominated trained people in
each locality who are authorised to deal with such items?"

Council spokeswoman Jayne Bailey said. "There is no countywide security policy
but individual sites have their own security arrangements " she said. "At Shire
Hall in Gloucester a designated security officer would be called if a suspicious
package was found and a set procedure followed."

LOAD-DATE: September 2, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                  Copyright 2004 NewsQuest Media Group Limited

                              132 of 301 DOCUMENTS

                          THE DAILY TELEGRAPH(LONDON)

                          September 04, 2004, Saturday

Twin towers terror attack still casts a long shadow The Saturday Profile
Insurance boss feels 'great sadness' over 9/11 - and fears for the future of his
industry, says Yvette Essen

BYLINE: By Yvette Essen

SECTION: City; City Life Pg. 32

LENGTH: 1205 words

IT IS nearly three years to the day since Dennis Mahoney and I watched
television images of planes flying into the World Trade Centre. Close to tears
in his hotel suite in sunny Monte Carlo, the chairman and chief executive of the
UK arm of American insurance broker Aon knew that more than 1,000 of his
colleagues were working in the twin towers.

"It seemed so unreal," he recalls. "Years ago as a young broker I was actually
involved in the construction insurance for those towers. I could not believe the
buildings could just come down like that."

Aon, the world's second-largest broker, lost 176 employees on September 11. The
figure could have been higher had many staff gone in for a usual day's work
instead of attending the Monte Carlo Rendezvous - the industry's four-day annual
conference in glamorous Monaco.

"It was not just the number of people. A lot of people that we lost had been
with Aon for many years and were very well known around the world. It was a loss
felt by pretty much everybody in the industry."

Mahoney, 53, was told by a colleague about the terrorist attacks as he walked
through the swing doors of the five-star Hotel de Paris. He says he does not
have nightmares of that day, but nurses "a feeling of great sadness".

He copes with the tragic events by blocking out the details. "When something
tragic happens like that, your mind tries to cut them out," he says quietly.
"You remember the good things and not the bad."

He passes over questions about Aon's ongoing lawsuit with a number of Lloyd's
insurers, who are refusing to pay out claims for the staff who died in the
towers. "We are still in litigation," he says hesitantly.

"But it was great sadness to me that we had that issue with certain parts of the
insurance market."

His disappointment comes after a 35-year career as a broker, in an industry
heavily reliant on personal contacts. Mahoney, the son of a East End docker,
started as a clerk at 18, "with my first job filling in carbon forms".

He developed a taste for Lloyd's after a broker at Price Forbes used him as a
porter to carry files to the insurance market and left him waiting to visit an
underwriter.

When he got to the front of the queue, Mahoney was still alone, and despite
admitting he was just the bag carrier, the underwriter encouraged him to go
through the files. The broker returned to find everything had been agreed.

The growth of litigation due to the spiralling compensation culture over the
past few decades is one of the things Mahoney has come to despise.

"The number and the widespread nature of disputes across the industry is a
disappointment to all of us in the industry and is one of the reasons so many of
us believe that we have got to to dramatically change the way we do business,"
he grumbles. "It devalues the whole concept of insurance."

He believes the compensation culture is simply unsustainable. Over the past two
years, premiums have surged for compulsory employers' liability insurance, which
pays out for accidents in the workplace.

"The compensation culture is a real concern for our clients," he says. "We do
believe that at some point in time, the Government will have to reconsider its
position. In Australia, in the state of New South Wales, there is a cap on
damages and payments to lawyers, and it appears to be having a real effect. The
Government should look at it and think about how much of that is applicable in
this country."

Mahoney is clearly worried about the future. From his spacious offices in
London's Devonshire Square, surrounded by pictures of his five children (aged 8
to 29, products of two marriages), he frets about the fate of the industry.

"If I had any hair left, I would pull it out," he says, waving his hands
frantically as he talks about the old-fashioned way in which insurance brokers
do business.

"You can walk around Lloyd's and still see literally hundreds, thousands of
ladies and gentleman walking around with huge armfuls of files. Why? It is
crazy. I despair."

Mahoney has been working with the London insurance market over the past few
years to drive change through the introduction of new documents called "slips".
This allows brokers to create policies and transfer information online, instead
of on pieces of paper. But even this is too little. "The slips have had a good
take-up in the market but the whole process has taken too long and does not go
anywhere near far enough," he says. While Mahoney is quick to add that he's not
suggesting abolishing face-to-face negotiation, he adds "all information between
brokers and underwriters should be electronic".

He worries that if London does not modernise, it will lose out to other
insurance markets, like those thriving in Bermuda or Gibraltar. "They can pose a
threat to the London insurance market if they have got more efficient ways of
working," he warns.

According to Mahoney, the insurance industry has a number of issues to face.
Since September 11, he says, clients have been taking on larger excesses, a
trend "which shows no signs of abating".

He says insurance companies also face the dilemma of where to invest their
money. "It is still the most worrying factor. You would be reluctant to invest
it in stock markets. If you put money in government bonds and interest rates go
up, then the value of bonds go down." Where would should they place their money,
I ask? "I'm not a financial adviser," he stalls.

After three years of strong premium rises, rates are now starting to come down.

"There is more capacity out there than there has been for the past three years
so it is inevitable that premiums will come down," says Mahoney. "We are seeing
rate reductions across all types of risks."

Aon UK's chief still finds time for more mundane worries. One is that his
youngest daughter Emily will overtake him on the ski slopes. He points to a
picture of a family trip to Beaver Creek, cut around the edges and stuck on to a
polystyrene background.

"They might all go past me," he mutters, excusing himself with the fact that he
was a late starter, only learning to ski at the age of 30. "It will only be
another two years and I will decide to stay in apres-ski."

His second wife, Jackie (also a more accomplished skier than Mahoney) seems
determined to keep his spirits up. For his 50th birthday, celebrated at a
warehouse complete with a mini fairground close to the Thames, she gave him a
Harley-Davidson, which is now one of four motorbikes parked in his garage. "I've
only done 1,200 miles on it, which is about 300 miles a year," he moans.

Motor racing is another of his hobbies and a steering wheel engraved with the
words: "Le Mans 2001" is another trophy in his office collection of mementos.

The photos of Mahoney posing in vintage cars seems fitting. Aon, he boasts
proudly, is the largest insurer of classic cars. "We insure most of the race
tracks, Goodwood, Brands Hatch. . ."

I'm just driving off myself, but as I rise to leave, we make plans to meet up
again in Monte Carlo for next week's conference. He tells me it is his birthday
in a few weeks but won't be having another big party until he is 60.

"I'll send you an invite," he promises with a smile. "If I make it to then."

LOAD-DATE: September 4, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 2004 Telegraph Group Limited

                              133 of 301 DOCUMENTS

                            Evening Times (Glasgow)

                               September 4, 2004

Diners' terror as restaurant staff attacked

BYLINE: By Alex Robertson Crime Reporter

SECTION: Pg. 12

LENGTH: 333 words


DINERS cowered in terror as a gang burst into a city centre restaurant and
attacked staff.

Four men and a woman were taken to hospital with serious injuries after the gang
of around 10 men targeted the popular Mayflower Chinese eaterie in Glasgow's
Sauchiehall Street.

An investigation is underway into the incident in the early hours of yesterday,
and police today appealed for witnesses to come forward.

The incident took place at the restaurant in Charing Cross at around 1.30am when
police said the men, believed to be Chinese, rushed in and set upon staff.

The victims were taken to Glasgow Royal Infir-mary and discharged after
treatment.

A police spokeswoman said: "Following a disturbance in the Mayflower, five
persons attended the Royal Infirmary with injuries. Inquiries are continuing."

Detectives from the city centre police office are now scanning CCTV footage in
an attempt to identify the attackers. One line of inquiry being pursued is that
the attack was gang related.

Detective Chief Insp-ector David Swindle said: "There were a number of people in
the restaurant and Sauchie-hall Street at the time.

"I'd appeal to witnesses, or anyone who saw a number of men get out of a car
near the restaurant, to come forward."

Police are treating the incident as serious assault and were today expected to
re-interview the victims.

The attack is the latest in a series of violent incidents to hit the city's
Chinese community.

In July last year, a man was seriously injured when up to 20 Chinese men - some
armed with knives - fought a battle in the city centre.

The 29-year-old, also Chinese, was found bleeding by police in Elmbank Street.

And in October 2002, Chinese people told of their shock after a 25-year-old man
was shot and wounded as he sat in his parked car in a Partick industrial estate.

l Call Central CID on 0141 532 3000 or Crime-stoppers free and anonymously on
0800 555 111.

alex.robertson@

eveningtimes.co.uk

LOAD-DATE: September 06, 2004

LANGUAGE: English

GRAPHIC: TERROR SCENE: the Mayflower restaurant is at the centre of a police
probe after staff assaults

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                Copyright 2004 Scottish Media Newspapers Limited

                              134 of 301 DOCUMENTS

                                  The Express

                               September 6, 2004

UK MUSLIM SAYS TERROR ATTACK ON SCHOOL JUSTIFIED

BYLINE: By Adrian Lee

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 463 words


AN extreme British Muslim group provoked an outcry yesterday by claiming it was
acceptable for terrorists to target schools and hospitals.

As the death toll in the Russian school massacre rose towards 500, the
al-Muhajiroun organisation, whose spiritual leader is the controversial cleric
Omar Bakri Mohammed, said the terror attack was justified because there were
adults in the building.

There were calls for police to take action against al-Muhajiroun, which recruits
young Muslims at mosques and universities, and for its leader, who lives on
British state benefits, to be kicked out of the country.

Bakri Mohammed's spokesman, Anjem Choudary, who is also the group's UK leader,
told the Daily Express: "Muslims have a perfectly legitimate right to retaliate.
The rules of Sharia Muslim law are not laid down to say you cannot attack a
hospital or a school. What about the carpet bombing of Afghanistan and Iraq by
British and American forces?

"There is a war taking place between Muslims and non-Muslims in Russia. As long
as your main target is not children, that is acceptable."

He said the Russians were to blame for the siege, because they had slaughtered
innocents in Chechnya. He defended the terrorists, adding: "They did not open
fire first. They had legitimate grievances. At this school there were more
adults than children."

Bakri Mohammed said the killing of children in Russia was justified if they were
not deliberately targeted.

He said: "It is not right to target children unless they are caught in crossfire
when adults are the target."

He had reportedly warned of a "justified" Iraqi attack on Britain, involving
hostage-taking, but the cleric claimed he had been misrepresented and said he
did not support action against any British civilians.

Bakri Mohammed, 44, has been linked to British suicide bomber Omar Sharif, who
died in Israel. He lives in north London on GBP 300-a week benefits while
calling for a Muslim revolution in the UK.

A Syrian-born refugee who can stay in Britain indefinitely, he has said former
PM John Major must be killed. And he says his group, which has links with terror
group Hamas, is "the mouth, eyes and ears of Bin Laden".

Last week Bakri Mohammed described how his organisation was also planning an
event this week to commemorate the September 11 terror attacks. He said a
convention would focus on "the anniversary of the division of the world into two
great camps - the camp of faith and the camp of unbelief".

Labour MP Andrew Dismore said he planned to report al-Muhajiroun to the
Metropolitan police.

"They are fundamentalists who prey on young British Muslims and convert them to
extremism. Bakri Mohammed's indefinite leave to stay in Britain should be
removed."

LOAD-DATE: September 7, 2004

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Newspaper

                       Copyright 2004 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS

                              135 of 301 DOCUMENTS

                            Express & Echo (Exeter)

                               September 6, 2004

On september 11, 2001, a sickening terrorist attack on New York changed the
world forever

SECTION: Features; Nostalgia; Others; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 1073 words


In the blood-stained history of terrorism there has never been a day as
horrifying as Tuesday, September 11, 2001.  That morning the Echo was reporting
how the scarred but unbowed hero of another bloody clash, Simon Weston of
Falklands fame, was in Exeter; that Devon firefighters were under pressure to
hit new emergency response times; and how two young men had rushed forward to
stop a man throwing himself off the Iron Bridge.

Then it all changed. First one, then two, three and finally four American jet
airliners were hijacked over the country and sent crashing to the ground.

One came down in farmland, its passengers bravely battling with the armed
hijackers and preventing it reaching its assumed target, Camp David; one plunged
into the side of the Pentagon building - and the two others smashed into the
Twin Towers of New York's World Trade Centre, killing nearly 3,000 people in a
huge fireball that engulfed the buildings before sending them crashing to the
ground.

In less than an hour, the fanatical murderers had struck at the heart of America
plunging the nation and much of the world into a state of shock.

In less than 60 minutes the most powerful symbols of US economic power had
collapsed, the most famous skyline in the world had changed forever and the
heart of the mighty US military machine had been sorely wounded.

On board the Pentagon plane, CNN commentator Barbara Olson sat, locked in the
toilet, and called her husband on her mobile phone.

She asked: "What do I do?" - but was dead 20 seconds later when the plane hit.

However, her question was one that everyone was asking.

The attacks brought America to a halt - but not quite to its knees.

Airports were closed, flights were grounded and borders sealed. Jet fighters
were scrambled to fly shotgun over major cities as Americans tried to comprehend
the enormity of what had happened.

The first strike was against the trade centre with a jet smashing high up on one
of the towers where thousands of people from all four corners of the globe
worked.

For some 18 minutes it was assumed it was a terrible, tragic accident - and then
a second jet was captured by TV cameras first lining up and then crashing into
the second tower.

It was then that the US and the watching world realised that this was no
accident but a blatant and bloody act of terrorism.

Within an hour, at 9.20am (2.20pm BST), the Pentagon was hit - an airliner
crashing into the side of the building.

The White House was evacuated, President Bush, in Florida visiting a primary
school was told the news by his Chief of Staff and quickly flown to a military
base in Louisiana.

Top leaders of Congress were taken to a secret destination.

Back in New York it was a nightmare scene - people on fire jumping in
desperation from the dizzy heights of the Twin Towers just before the buildings
collapsed on themselves.

Scores of firefighters, police officers and paramedics who had rushed into the
building in a brave bid to help were killed as the millions of tonnes of red-hot
masonry and steel girders fell in a huge column of dust and smoke.

It was a scene so awful that no one could turn away from their television
screens as the horror unfolded - and everyone knows where they were that fateful
Tuesday.

As well as bringing the pictures and graphic descriptions of the outrage, the
Echo also reported how people in Exeter were quick to respond.

In the immediate aftermath, people were quick to back America's likely response
and called for tough action against those responsible.

But there were also scores of messages displayed in Exeter Cathedral for a
requiem service dedicated to the victims of the attacks.

Candles were lit to commemorate those who died and photographs of the tragedy
put on view.

After conducting the service in the Cathedral's Lady Chapel, Canon Carl Turner
revealed that, like many, he had friends and relatives in America.

He said: "There have been so many people visiting the Cathedral today who have
been talking about the images on TV and are at a complete loss about what to do.

"We are trying to provide a place of prayer to listen to people and to offer a
requiem for those who died.

"Each day we will be praying for peace and common sense." He continued: "People
feel so angry but it would be too easy to lay the blame quickly without waiting
to find out the full facts." Some didn't.

The Echo gave the leader of Exeter's Islamic community a platform to call for
people not to be confused about where local Muslims stood in regard to the
atrocities in America.

Shabir Ahmed, the chair of trustees at the Islamic Centre in Sidwell Street,
said they had already received angry calls following the attacks.

He said: "People are confusing the issue and think the Islamic Centre is a place
for them to vent their spleen and we have had a few phone calls from people who
cannot distinguish between people in another continent and people in Exeter.

"We want to extend our condolences to the victims of their heinous and hideous
crime which has no parallel in any civilised society. We have friends and
relatives who are victims of this tragedy." Just four days after the disaster
Exeter was stilled as the people of the city observed a three-minute silence to
remember those who died.

Hundreds of shoppers. drivers, emergency service men and women and office and
shop workers across the city stood side-by-side at 11am as part of a European
day of mourning for the victims.

In Bedford Square, a delegation from the emergency services met to lead a
service for those who died.

Leading the service was Exeter's police chaplain, the Rev Simon Croft.

He said: "In this simple ceremony we stand alongside all our American friends in
this time of shock, terror and death.

"We stand alongside all those who are grieving both across the Atlantic in the
United States and in this country." Among those who appreciated the gesture was
Lynn Newman, an American from Missouri who lived in Dawlish with her British
husband.

She said: "We are in the process of moving back to America.

"Everyone has been coming up to us in the streets to say we heard your accent
and just wanted to say how sorry we are for everyone in America. I cried at the
Changing of the Guards on television. I burst into tears when they played the
American national anthem."

LOAD-DATE: September 7, 2004

LANGUAGE: English

                     Copyright 2004 Express & Echo (Exeter)

                              136 of 301 DOCUMENTS



                                   The Mirror

                           September 6, 2004, Monday

TV TODAY: PICK OF THE DAY.. BATTLE TO REMEMBER 9/11 TERROR ATTACKS;
 A FIGHT FOR GROUND ZERO: AN EQUINOX SPECIAL, CHANNEL 4, 8PM

SECTION: Eire Edition; FEATURES; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 91 words


IN a week dominated by memories of the Twin Towers massacre, Equinox takes a
look at the aftermath.

Following the highest-profile building contract in the world, this programme
reveals how the desire to build a meaningful architectural tribute to the
victims of September 11 descended into a billion-dollar rumpus.

Even in the smouldering aftermath, architects, politicians and lawyers circled
like vultures, arguing over what would best honour Ground Zero.

Finally, it boiled down to a battle of attrition for hearts and minds.

LOAD-DATE: September 6, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                            Copyright 2004 MGN Ltd.

                              137 of 301 DOCUMENTS

                         The Evening Standard (London)

                               September 7, 2004

Office staff trained to deal with terrorist attack on the capital

BYLINE: JUSTIN DAVENPORT

SECTION: A; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 443 words


OFFICE workers and security staff are being trained for the front line of a
terrorist attack on London.

Police are instructing an army of 1,500 reception staff and doormen to handle
the aftermath of a terror strike in the City and Canary Wharf along the lines of
the September 11 attack on the World Trade Center. The staff are being By Justin
Davenport, Crime Correspondent given lessons on how to handle crowds, evacuate
large numbers of people from buildings and set up police cordons.

They will also be briefed on how the emergency services will respond to
disasters or major securitythreats. Under the initiative, codenamed Operation
Griffin, the office workers are being equipped with yellow high-visibility
police vests, police tape to put around a crime or disaster scene, and a list of
emergency numbers.

The operation is being run by the City police but will also include businesses
in areas covered by the Met, such as Canary Wharf. City Commissioner James Hart,
who recently had talks with the FBI and New York police on counterterrorism
tactics, said the scheme was essential to help companies cope with the aftermath
of a terrorist attack or a major alert.

The City force also provides a secure telephone line for businesses to gain
information on the latest threat level.

Most of the 600 already trained are security staff but some receptionists and
other "front of office" workers are also being briefed.

Trained staff at major companies will also be responsible for smaller firms such
as bars and sandwich shops nearby.

Mr Hart said: "They are being fully briefed about the police and the emergency
services' response so they can be more helpful to us on the day that something
dreadful happens, the day that we hope will never happen.

"If something does happen we can call on these people to help with basic tasks
such as setting up cordons or controlling groups of people. The response we have
had is terrific. There is great enthusiasm for the project."

Mr Hart said he agreed with Met Commissioner Sir John Stevens that an attack on
London was inevitable, and the City was a potential target.

"There are people out there who wish to do us significant harm.

"It may well be that they do not have the capability this year or next but this
problem is not going to go away. At some point someone will do us harm."

Mr Hart said it was likely that al Qaeda was carrying out reconnaissance on
potential targets in London, even testing police defences by dialling 999 or
leaving suspect packages.

"What we know about al Qaeda is that success is based on a thorough
understanding of the target."

LOAD-DATE: September 8, 2004

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                   Copyright 2004 Associated Newspapers Ltd.

                              138 of 301 DOCUMENTS

                            Daily Post (North Wales)

                          September 8, 2004, Wednesday

RUSSIANS RALLY AS DEAD ARE BURIED;
 MOSCOW MASS DEMO AGAINST TERROR ATTACKS

BYLINE: ED JAMES

SECTION: North Wales Edition; NEWS; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 438 words


WAVING flags and banners, tens of thousands of Russians demonstrated against
terrorism yesterday, massing outside the Kremlin in response to government calls
for solidarity after a series of deadly attacks that have killed more than 400
people.

The crowd stood in silence in memory of terror attack victims, starting the
rally after a clock in a Kremlin tower above struck 5pm.

The demonstration came as relatives held a third day of funeral for victims of
the hostage crisis at a school in the southern Russian town of Beslan.

Demonstrators massed on Red Square's cobblestones outside St Basil's Cathedral
brandishing banners with slogans such as "We won't give Russia to terrorists"
and "The enemy will be crushed, victory will be ours. "

"I have been crying for so many days and I came here to feel that we are
actually together, " said Vera Danilina, 57.

"We came here to show that we are not indifferent to the series of terrorist
acts that have taken place, " said Alexander, 18, a student at a Moscow
technical college. The rally, organised by a pro government trade union, was
heavily advertised on state-controlled television, with prominent actors
broadcasting appeals to citizens to turn out to say no' to terror.

President Vladimir Putin has called for unity in vast, multi-ethnic Russia and
sought to rally its people against enemies he says have aid from abroad. There
was, however, criticism of the gathering. Putin vehemently denied a link between
Russia's policies in Chechnya and last week's hostage-taking, which claimed more
than 350 lives. He again rejected Western calls for talks with Chechen rebel
representatives.

"Why don't you meet Osama bin Laden, invite him to Brussels or to the White
House and engage in talks, ask him what he wants and give it to him so he leaves
you in peace?" Putin said.

Beslan's streets were crowded with funeral processions yesterday. At the muddy
cemetery, where grave diggers have opened up two new tracts, relatives opened
the tiny coffin of eight-year-old Vasily Reshetnyak, touching his forehead and
kissing him goodbye.

TWO people have been arrested on suspicion of involvement in the attacks on two
Russian planes that crashed nearly simultaneously after explosions on board two
weeks ago, killing all 90 passengers and crew.

One of those arrested was reported to be a man from southern Krasnodar region
who made money through illegal plane ticket sales at Moscow's Domodedovo
airport.

The crashes were the first in a series of attacks that have killed more than 400
people, culminating in the hostage-taking in Belsan.

LOAD-DATE: September 9, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Newspaper

               Copyright 2004 The Liverpool Daily Post & Echo Ltd

                              139 of 301 DOCUMENTS



                                  M2 Presswire

                               September 8, 2004

Australian Government: Australia to provide medical assistance for victims of
Beslan terrorist attack

LENGTH: 267 words


M2 PRESSWIRE-SEPTEMBER 8, 2004-Australian Government: Australia to provide
medical assistance for victims of Beslan terrorist attack ©1994-2004 M2
COMMUNICATIONS LTD

In response to the tragic events at a school in Beslan, Russia, Australia will
provide $100,000 to help with medical assistance for victims of the terrorist
incident.

This follows an offer by Australia to send a small team from the Australian
Federal Police to assist with investigations into the attack in which almost 400
people died and a similar number of people were injured.

Because of the magnitude of the tragedy, local hospitals in Russia are
struggling to cope with the medical needs of the injured victims.

Australia's funding contribution will assist Russian Red Cross activities to
provide support to local medical agencies in Beslan.

This will build on the assistance already being given to the victims, which
includes relief items sent by international humanitarian aid organisations
operating in the North Caucasus and medicines, disinfectants, medical supplies
and equipment, drinking water, food and bedding sent by the United Nations,
International Committee of the Red Cross and other non-government organisations.

The attack at the school in Beslan has shocked Australians and we are concerned
to offer assistance to those whose lives have been so sadly affected.

(M2 Communications Ltd disclaims all liability for information provided within
M2 PressWIRE. Data supplied by named party/parties. Further information on M2
PressWIRE can be obtained at http://www.presswire.net on the world wide web.
Inquiries to info@m2.com).

LOAD-DATE: September 8, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH; ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSWIRE


                     Copyright  2004 Normans Media Limited
                              All rights reserved

                              140 of 301 DOCUMENTS

                     The Guardian (London) - Final Edition

                               September 9, 2004

Islamist meeting to mark 9/11 sparks fears of backlash: Police suspect
rightwingers will try to attack convention where extremists plan to commemorate
terror attacks and watch videos of Bin Laden

BYLINE: Rosie Cowan, Crime correspondent

SECTION: Guardian Home Pages, Pg. 10

LENGTH: 688 words


There were fears yesterday that a controversial conference to commemorate the
9/11 hijackers and other al-Qaida terrorists would provoke rightwing thugs to
attack British Muslims.

Omar Bakri, leader of the extremist Islamic group al-Muhajiroun, plans to hold
the convention this Saturday, the third anniversary of the attack on the twin
towers, at an as yet undisclosed location in east London.

Anjam Choudry, the UK secretary general of al-Muhajiroun, rejected suggestions
that the conference would be a celebration of the 9/11 hijackers, but confirmed
it would feature videos of Osama bin Laden and discussions of jihad, as well as
a lecture dedicated to dead al-Qaida leaders.

However, some supporters of a group called the United British Alliance, which
intends to lay a wreath at the US embassy on Saturday to commemorate the victims
of 9/11, have threatened to "stand up to" those they see as apologists for
terrorism.

Although the United British Alliance states on its website that it is
anti-terrorist, not anti-Islamic or racist, informed sources say it has
attracted support from rightwing extremists intent on using the anniversary and
the al-Muhajiroun conference as an excuse to attack Muslims.

One unofficial West Ham football club supporters' website contains a chat forum
about the commemoration, calling for "patriots to stand up and be counted".

Comments on it included "The Muslims are celebrating in east London on the day
and we gotta stop it" and "The plan is to lay a wreath, pay our respects to all
those who died, then head over to east London to break up their celebration."

"It's obvious some hardcore lads will go along, hoping for a punch-up at the
very least," said a source.

A Scotland Yard source said "these sorts of groups" were closely monitored by
the intelligence services, and the police would deal with any public disorder or
law-breaking.

Mr Choudry refused to give details of the conference but said al-Muhajiroun was
fully justified in airing a different point of view about al-Qaida and Bin Laden
from that generally presented in the west.

"We've made it clear it's not about celebrating the deaths of people. We may not
have remorse but we do not celebrate these things," he said.

"We will be looking at Iraq and Afghanistan, and some of the al-Qaida
personalities who have become household names. The media don't want to hear that
Osama bin Laden may have a cause, they just want to demonise him."

He denied that Muslim hostage takers had killed children in Beslan, claiming the
Russians were responsible for the slaughter.

"Muslims would never deliberately kill children," he said. "The Russians were
the cause of what happened.

"If others hold a minute's silence for the 3,000 who died in 9/11, then there
should be a couple of hours for the people of Iraq and Afghanistan. It's total
hypocrisy otherwise."

But Inayat Bunglawala, general secretary of the Muslim Council of Britain,
accused al-Muhajiroun of contributing to the marginalisation of British Muslims
by deliberately provoking public outrage.

"I'm very sceptical about who's going to turn up: I doubt al-Muhajiroun could
rally 100 people to this meeting," he said. "But Omar Bakri specialises in
enraging the ordinary public in a way that has done the image of Islam so much
damage, and encouraged the polarisation of communities in this country. The
British National party has no better recruiting sergeant."

Mr Bakri was quoted in the London-based Arabic daily newspaper Al-Sharq al-Awsat
as saying the conference would focus on the "anniversary of the division of the
world into two great camps, the camp of faith and the camp of unbelief".

He said: "We want the world to remember this operation (9/11), that lifted the
head of the (Muslim) nation . . . a cry of jihad against unbelief and
oppression."

Mr Bakri, a Syrian father of seven, moved to the UK in 1985 after being deported
from Saudi Arabia because of his membership of a banned group. The Home Office
has given him leave to remain in the UK for five years but is reviewing his
status.


LOAD-DATE: September 9, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 2004 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              141 of 301 DOCUMENTS

                                Hull Daily Mail

                               September 9, 2004

Seven die in terror attack on embassy

SECTION: News; Other; Others; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 318 words


A Bomb attack near the Australian Embassy in Indonesia today that killed at
least seven people may have been the work of a British-trained engineer. Azahari
Husin, a Malaysian, is one of Asia's most wanted men and a member of the
al-Qaida-allied Jemaah Islamiyah terror group. He has been linked to numerous
bombings in Indonesia, including the Bali attack that killed 202 people in 2002.

"We believe Azahari is behind this," a security official said. "He has the
expertise to manufacture the explosives required for a bombing of this scale."
Today's powerful blast in Jakarta killed at least seven people and wounded close
to 100. Australian officials said no one inside the heavily fortified compound
was seriously hurt.

Azahari is believed to be protected by a small circle of Jemaah Islamiyah
members and may have timed the attack in response to Indonesia's decision this
month to file terror charges against the group's reputed leader, militant cleric
Abu Bakar Bashir.

The government is drafting charges against Bashir on suspicion of ordering last
year's suicide bombing of the JW Marriott hotel in Jakarta, which killed 12
people.

Azahari and another Malaysian fugitive, Noordin Mohammed Top, are believed to
have made the Marriott bomb with dynamite and ammonium nitrate, a fertiliser
that can be transformed into explosives.

Azahari, a British-trained engineer and former university lecturer, and Noordin
fled Malaysia to escape a nationwide crackdown against Islamic militants after
the September 11 attacks in the US.

In February, Indonesia arrested a 40-year-old Malaysian called Amran in the city
of Solo and claimed he admitted taking part in the bombing of churches in nine
Indonesian cities on Christmas Eve of 2000.

Amran has also been accused of transporting explosives to Java that were
allegedly used by Azahari and Noordin to make the Marriott bomb.


LOAD-DATE: September 10, 2004

LANGUAGE: English

                         Copyright 2004 Hull Daily Mail

                              142 of 301 DOCUMENTS



                                   The Mirror

                          September 9, 2004, Thursday

AK-47 TERROR;
 REPUBLICAN RIDDLES CARS IN ATTACK ON POLICE BASE

BYLINE: GEORGE JACKSON

SECTION: Ulster Edition; NEWS; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 356 words

HIGHLIGHT: PROBE: Policeman surveys the cars hit in the gun attack in Derry
yesterday; LETHAL: An AK-47 similar to the one used in the attack


A TERRORIST gunman emptied an assault rifle magazine at workmen yesterday -
under the gaze of three police security cameras.

No one was injured as a suspected dissident republican sprayed the Strand Road
police station in Derry with an AK-47.

Builders who were working on an extension in the fortified base dived for cover
as the gunman opened fire at about 9.30am.

Detectives believe the workers may have been the intended target of the attack.

And staff at a creche just yards away say children could have been killed.

Supervisor Mary Burke said: "Thank God the children hadn't arrived. What
happened was terrible but it could have been so much worse."

But the terrorist did rake a nearby doctor's car with gunfire.

Dr Joe McEvoy of the Bayview Medical Centre said: "I just can't believe this. I
thought days like this were long over.

"Thank goodness nobody was in my car or in any of the other cars which were hit
by bullets.

"Because so many people were in the street and the fact the damage from the
bullets was spread over such a wide area, it's incredible no one was injured or
killed."

PSNI Inspector Bryan Hume labelled the attack as "madness".

He said: "It was indiscriminate shooting of the worst kind. The gunman
discharged a full magazine from a rifle, which we believe was an AK-47, firing
up to 30 bullets. Even though he fired from point-blank range, the spray of hits
was over a wide area. It's a miracle that none of the civilian cars hit was
occupied at the time."

The shooting was recorded on three police CCTV cameras mounted on a perimeter
fence surrounding the Strand Road station.

The cameras are positioned a short distance from the junction of Asylum Road and
Queen Street where the gunman opened fire.

No group has admitted the attack but it is believed the Real IRA may have been
responsible.

The gunman, who wore a tartan scarf over his face, got out of a maroon Cavalier.

After he opened fire he jumped into the car which was then driven away by an
accomplice. The car was later found burnt out at Quarry Street in the Brandywell
area of the city.

LOAD-DATE: September 9, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                            Copyright 2004 MGN Ltd.

                              143 of 301 DOCUMENTS

                                  Daily Record

                           September 10, 2004, Friday

50 TERROR SUSPECTS DIE IN AIR ATTACK

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 166 words


PAKISTANI warplanes flattened a suspected al-Qaeda training facility yesterday,
killing at least 50 fighters.

Military sources said the majority of those in the compound near the border with
Afghanistan were Uzbeks, Arabs and Chechens.

The attack was among the fiercest in months of fighting in the region,
considered a possible hide-out for Osama bin Laden and his henchmen.

Army spokesman Major General Shaukat Sultan said the camp was believed to be
linked to bin Laden's al-Qaeda network.

Sultan added that the camp, near the village of Dila Khula, was destroyed and
all the people inside were believed killed.

He said the site comprised two mud-brick buildings and an explosives training
facility.

Sultan added: 'I don't think they put up a fight. They were taken by surprise.'

Officials said troops moved in after the air assault and there were no military
casualties.

Sultan said the dead fighters had been involved in terrorist acts inside
Pakistan.

LOAD-DATE: September 10, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

            Copyright 2004 Scottish Daily Record & Sunday Mail Ltd.

                              144 of 301 DOCUMENTS

                          THE DAILY TELEGRAPH(LONDON)

                           September 10, 2004, Friday

Nine killed by Australian embassy bomb Jemaah Islamiyah terrorists are blamed
for Indonesian attack, report Marianne Kearney in Jakarta and Sebastien Berger

BYLINE: By Marianne Kearney and Sebastien Berger

SECTION: News; International Pg. 12

LENGTH: 643 words

SUSPECTED Islamic terrorists detonated a huge car bomb outside the Australian
embassy in Jakarta yesterday, killing at least nine people and injuring more
than 180.

Police blamed Jemaah Islamiyah, the fundamentalist group responsible for the
Bali bombings, for the first big attack in Indonesia for more than a year. Last
night, a claim of responsibility appeared on an Islamic internet site.

The bomb exploded two weeks ahead of a presidential election in the world's most
populous Muslim nation and a month before Australia's general election.

Australia has been highlighted as a terrorist target because of its involvement
in the American-led invasions of Afghanistan and Iraq.

Charred debris and bodies, glass and the twisted wreckage of motorcycles, cars
and a lorry littered the road outside the embassy after the blast, which tore
off the glass fronts of nearby office blocks wounding many workers. The bomb
blew a huge crater in the road.

All the victims appeared to be Indonesian, some of them embassy security guards
or police stationed outside to move on traffic to try to prevent suicide
attacks. It was not clear whether the driver of the vehicle fled before the
explosion or killed himself.

The front perimeter wall of the heavily fortified embassy was slightly damaged.

Sinaga, a bus driver, was nearby when the bomb detonated. He said: "I felt a
shock and the whole bus was lifted into the air. Then I was thrown back over the
seat." All the windows in the small bus were shattered.

Harold Crouch, an Australian academic who was in the embassy at the time of the
blast, said he felt the whole building rock.

"There was a great blast and then shuddering sensations," he said. "I was
drinking coffee and immediately everybody reacted, running around, obviously
prepared for this kind of thing."

Since a suicide attack on the Marriott hotel in the city last year killed 12
people and injured about 200, security at potential targets in Jakarta has been
hugely strengthened, with vehicles approaching hotels being searched.

"Each time there is an event like this, we are always the victims," said Arif
Yunianto, 38, a security guard at the Plaza Kuningan building near the embassy.
"I don't understand why there are always bombs and always it's us who get
killed."

The blast signalled that JI has been able to regroup despite the arrest of about
150 of its members after Bali.

Among those who have evaded arrest is Azahari Husin, a British-educated
Malaysian engineer, who was named yesterday as the prime suspect by Indonesia's
police chief, Gen Da'i Bachtiar. Azahari, who studied at Reading University in
the 1980s, learnt bomb-making in Afghanistan, was involved in the Bali atrocity,
in which more than 200 people were killed, and is believed to have masterminded
the Marriott attack.

Gen Bachtiar said the strike had similarities to Azahari's previous outrages.
"Our suspicion is that it was by the same group, especially the bomb-maker, Dr
Azahari. This is what we can conclude from the modus operandi.

"From the investigation so far, it is estimated that it was a car bomb because
at the site of the incident bits of a car wreck were found," he said.

The bombing came as authorities prepared to press charges against the jailed
cleric Abu Bakar Bashir, who has been accused by police of heading JI, which
wants to set up a fundamentalist Islamic state across South-East Asia, and of
playing a role in the Marriott blast.

Bashir, who has denied any involvement in terrorism, condemned the attack but
predicted that he would still be blamed for it.

President Megawati Sukarnoputri of Indonesia, who faces the final round of the
country's presidential election in 10 days, visited the bomb site and two
hospitals nearby. She said: "I ask all Indonesian society to remain calm and to
be on alert in terms of security."

LOAD-DATE: September 10, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 2004 Telegraph Group Limited

                              145 of 301 DOCUMENTS

                            The Independent (London)

                          September 11, 2004, Saturday

SEPTEMBER 11, 2001: THE DAY MY SON DIDN'T COME HOME Bob McIlvaine mourns his son
Bobby Kate Lilienthal/Splash News; Bobby McIlvaine, who died in the terrorist
attacks

SECTION: First Edition; FEATURES; Pg. 22,23,24

LENGTH: 1940 words


"MEN ARE idiots when it comes to grieving." Bob McIlvaine, 59, has a right to
make such an assertion. Today marks the third anniversary of the day two
jetliners dropped from a blue Manhattan sky and rammed the twin towers, sending
them tumbling to the ground. Left in the dust were the mangled and charred
bodies of almost 3,000 people.

Among them was his son, Bobby. But if he is speaking of himself, he is mistaken.
It is not that Mr McIlvaine, a retired counsellor to troubled teenagers and
one-time tavern-owner from Philadelphia, has returned to the groove of his old
life. He hasn't done that at all. Rather, everything has changed for him - he
has different friends, different passions, he has lost his religion. He is still
with his wife, but for a while that was touch and go too.

This modestly built man with silver hair and glasses has found his own way to
cope and for that no one could call him an idiot. True, he weeps still - he
crumbles twice in our conversation - but nowadays he is mostly in charge of his
pain, not the other way around. His daily experiences are, by his own choice,
not what he could have possibly imagined a few years ago. But that was before
9/11.

On that fateful Tuesday, Mr McIlvaine was at the hospital in suburban
Philadelphia where he worked with the teenagers. The TV was on at the nurses'
station and shortly after 9am someone burst in and told him that bad things were
happening in Manhattan. He left to go home to his wife, Helen, a special
education teacher. They weren't overly worried. Bobby, who was 25 - and who only
the weekend before had announced plans to become engaged to his girlfriend - did
not work in the twin towers.

Not that they could relax entirely. Recently promoted to assistant
vice-president in the media division of Merrill Lynch, he had an office in the
World Financial Centre, just across the street from the flaming towers. What his
parents did not know was that on that day he was involved in setting up a trade
show on the 106th floor of the north tower, just four floors below the
restaurant Windows on the World.

The worry had become acute by nightfall when Bobby hadn't telephoned. And this
was a man who talked to his mother every day, without fail. Their second son,
Jeff, three years younger, was determinedly positive. But the next morning there
was nothing to do but struggle up to New York and look. On Wednesday, they went
from hospital to hospital searching for Bobby. Nothing. It was the next day that
word came that was at once terrible and relieving. They had found a body; it
might be Bobby.

This is the part of the story that Mr McIlvaine still is unable to tell without
faltering. The memory of that moment when the news of your child's death is
first brought to you is stored away most of the time. But when someone asks you
to talk about it, to describe that excruciating instant, it comes alive again.
And still it is too much. What he does know, however, is that his family was one
of the lucky ones. They had a body they could take home, mourn over and bury or
cremate. That was not the case for the large majority of the 9/11 families, many
of whom held burial ceremonies with empty caskets.

But something still haunts this man and he has not been able to let it go. How
did Bobby die, exactly? Where was he? He and his wife never saw the body. It was
identified, without any question, by dental records. (Bobby had recently had a
crown fitted.) They were advised against viewing it at the makeshift morgue that
received all the 9/11 remains at that time. And when they got him home to
Philadelphia, the undertaker was similarly discouraging. "He said that it was
just going to leave a mark on us for the rest of our lives, if we did," he
recalls now. What they were told was this: Bobby suffered massive trauma, had
post-mortem burns over 90 per cent of his body and was missing his right arm.

Mr McIlvaine is still searching for answers. His theory is that Bobby was struck
by flying debris, perhaps a chunk of concrete or a girder. If everyone was
telling them the truth about the condition of his body, he surely could not have
jumped. To imagine that would almost be too much to bear.

And yet. What if the body was in a far worse state than anyone had let on? That
would change a lot. "I don't think the funeral director was lying to me," he
offers. If he had viewed Bobby's body, he would know for sure and part of him
regrets he did not ignore all that advice, at least to say a final goodbye.

As the weeks and months passed, father and mother found themselves drawn apart
rather than brought together. Bob's friends all but vanished. He hardly sees any
of his old mates any more except for an occasional round of golf with them when
9/11 is never mentioned. Helen, however, was surrounded by her old friends who
became a constant support network. Hence, more than anything else, the "men are
idiots" remark. If it was not aimed at himself, it was definitely aimed at those
that used to be his buddies. "Helen had everyone around her, talking to her. Men
don't do that. My friends never came around."

But there was more to the tension at home in those first years. The second year,
he says, was even worse than the first. Eventually, Bob and Helen sought help
from a psychologist. "I think that if we hadn't seen the psychologist, we
probably would have gotten divorced," Mr McIlvaine concedes now.

For one, there was the journal episode. A few days after 9/11, the family
returned to New York to clear out Bobby's apartment. The almost-fiancee, Jen,
was there too and asked to keep one of Bobby's diaries. Bob saw no harm. Only
later did Helen discover that it was the last one their son had kept. She wanted
to see it. Jen said she needed time to think about it. Then three months later,
she flatly turned Bob down when he asked her for the loan of the journal again.
Helen was livid - with Jen and her husband. From the look in her eyes that day,
"I think she was ready to divorce me right there," recalls Bob.

An encounter between Bob and their local priest didn't help much either. They
were standing outside church soon after Bobby died when the priest said, "Don't
worry, because peace will triumph against evil." The remark stuck in Bob's craw.
What did he mean "evil"? "I got really angry. I said to him, Who are the evil
people?'" From that moment on, he stopped going to church - he is a Catholic -
and has not returned since. Calling the hijackers "evil" wasn't good enough for
him. "I didn't want to know who was evil. I wanted to know why they were doing
evil things." And this is where the more fundamental rift between father and
mother, though both equally bereaved, began to show. Bob began to take exception
to the reaction that almost everyone else - and the government especially - had
after 9/11. By his own admission, he drew more and more angry. He was opposed to
the invasion of Afghanistan and the war against the Taliban. In other words,
revenge did not interest him. "I just didn't see what it would achieve," he says
now.

Most troubling for his wife, however, was his quick determination that all was
not as it seemed. How come the photographs of all 19 hijackers were in the
newspapers the day after the jets struck? He theorised that the government had
known the attacks were coming and had said nothing. It is a belief that, he
says, was compounded for him by the findings of the recent congressional
investigation into the attacks. "I honestly believe that they knew it was
coming." But whenever he raised this at home, Helen would shut him down.

"She would just break down at the thought. It was too much. In fact, no one
wanted to listen to me at the time and she would have none of it."

In early 2003 something happened, which at the time was bad news, but now Mr
McIlvaine is glad of it. He was laid off. By then, he was filled with
frustration about Afghanistan, about what he saw as the cover-up and the coming
war in Iraq. "I wanted to grab people and convince them that this world is not
what it is supposed to be." And so, with time on his hands, he did what so many
other families of 9/11 victims had done - he got involved, by joining a peace
advocacy group called September 11th Families for Peaceful Tomorrows. And by
then, Helen was with him and supported him fully.

That was a good thing, because the following month, he agreed to join a group
travelling to Washington DC to protest at the impending invasion of Iraq. They
stood outside the White House and chanted for peace. The night before he had
made a startling decision - he would get himself arrested. "It was very
nerve-racking. It was tough, because I had never been arrested before."

When the time came, he simply asked police officers in the cordon to break arms
and allow him through. He said that he would go with them quietly afterwards.
Which is what happened. They took away his protest sign, with pictures of his
son stapled on to it. One officer took the pictures off and placed them in Mr
McIlvaine's top pocket.

More recently, he has been part of a project called Stonewalk. For the past
several months, volunteers, including several who lost sons, daughters or
spouses in 9/11, have been pulling a large wooden cart throughout New England
that carries a massive granite tombstone with the words "Unknown Civilians
Killed in War" engraved upon it. The hope was to have it erected in the
Arlington National Cemetery, but the group was turned down. Mr McIlvaine was
part of a team hauling it up the East Side of Manhattan and pausing to join
afternoon prayers at the 96th Street Mosque, when he met with The Independent.

Being inside a mosque is something else he would never have done, but for
Bobby's death. And, as you would guess by now, any animosity against Muslims
could not be further from this man's mind. Last month, he helped to drag the
half-ton tombstone for three days through the hilly country of northern
Connecticut.

The pulling - and all that he is now doing to advocate peace - is doing him more
good than he could have imagined. Especially when it brings physical hardship,
as it most definitely did when he was at the cart's wooden yoke in Connecticut.
"It was probably the best thing that has happened to me since Bobby died. The
pain was so severe sometimes that honestly it was cleansing."

The word catharsis is not one he likes, he says, but that is what he is
experiencing right now. And it does not stop with Stonewalk.

On the Sunday before the Republican Convention he joined the mega-march through
New York City to protest against the Iraq war and George Bush. "What hurts me so
much is that he is taking credit for being a war president," he says. "People
need to see that he failed this country miserably."

The day after tomorrow, for the first time, he will be part of the commemoration
ceremony at Ground Zero, taking his turn to read the names of the dead.

Whenever Mr McIlvaine is out to work for peace, he wears the red Princeton cap
that used to belong to his son. He has pinned two badges to either side of it.
One is a peace sign with the twin towers superimposed on it. The other is a
photograph of Bobby. "You know, he was a shining light and the world was his
oyster," he explains, his eyes once more starting to moisten.

And Bobby, he goes on, is with him today, as he pulls the stone, and was with
him on the march in Manhattan, just as he is at his side every day. "I really
believe he is a force and he is with me. There had to be a reason he was
murdered. Maybe I'm the reason."

LOAD-DATE: September 11, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 2004 Independent Print Ltd

                              146 of 301 DOCUMENTS

                UK Newsquest Regional Press - This is Hampshire

                               September 11, 2004

The air terror attack of 1940.

BYLINE: Simon Carter (author email simon.carter@soton-echo.co.uk)

SECTION: News

LENGTH: 2069 words

DATELINE: Southampton



A TOOL-fitter lay flat on the heaving ground as the bombs rained down. He peered
up and saw the head of the firm's young teaboy gently rolling towards him.

Inside the burning factory, workbenches were strewn with body parts.

There were naked corpses stripped of clothing by the impact of the blast yet
curiously unmarked. Men constructing a new factory roof had been tossed great
distances, their broken bodies unrecognisable.

Meanwhile, amid the dizzying bedlam, a security man had found his young son, a
receptionist pageboy at the company. The lad, who wore a pillbox hat, was dead
and his father carried him away.

Nearby a doctor tended a worker who had lost his right arm, shoulder and leg but
was still alive.

A cigarette was placed between the lips of the victim who joked: "Will you tell
my landlady that I will be late for supper?"

He said he couldn't feel a thing . . . before slipping away.

These are the haunting images of a largely forgotten fragment of Southampton's
civilian war.

The place was Cunliffe-Owen's aircraft factory at Eastleigh Aerodrome where
planes were repaired.

And the date - one which would have global poignancy in a following millennium -
was Wednesday September 11, 1940.

It's difficult to be precise about the time but it was around 4pm.

That much is known because the young teaboy had just left the new B Building,
having supplied sandwiches and drinks during the staff's afternoon break.

He was making his way across the road which divided the hangar from the main
factory when the clear blue heavens suddenly delivered the bombers. The young
lad was decapitated when four tons of high explosive descended.

Fourteen bombs fell in the vicinity of B Building and those inside had little
opportunity to escape.

Three 500lb explosives crashed through the roof and detonated inside the new
aircraft repair hangar, causing three of the four bays to collapse.

Those near the doorway fled across the adjoining playing fields while others
followed by scrambling through unfinished window frames which had yet to be
fitted with glass.

There followed indescribable carnage as they ran straight into the path of
cascading bombs.

Two nearby shelters were also wrecked but, thankfully, only two people had
reached that far.

The late Harry Meachen, a special policeman based at Portswood, was the first
officer at the scene. He wrote of that day: " I was shocked to see one hangar
completely destroyed, with people trapped underneath the mass of twisted metal
and asbestos sheeting.

"In a pit beneath another aeroplane, a young mechanic had been working but was
trapped with flames all around him. As I watched, his head and arms fell into
the flames and I could do nothing to help. I picked up four heads lying amid the
debris with severed arms and legs which were later handed to the casualty
department of the Royal South Hants Hospital."

The town's air raid siren had sounded that day but numerous false alarms had
encouraged firms to adopt their own additional procedures in order to minimise
disruption to production.

At Cunliffe, women were usually told to leave when a red intercom alert was
given but the men would remain at their benches until a "double red" warning.

On the 11th, the double red alert was given only when the bombs began exploding.

The Blitz, which had begun in earnest with the carpet bombing of vast swathes of
London's East End four days earlier, had now left at least 52 workers dead and
90 injured in Southampton.

As the traumatised survivors stumbled home, their trembling lips mumbled one
question: "What on earth happened to the warning?"

THIRTEEN-year-old Alan Eagle emerged from the surface shelter near Bassett Green
School and stared at the huge plume of smoke which now spiralled into the clear
sky.  It was 4.15pm.

One thought overwhelmed him: If Cunliffe had been hit, what had happened to his
brothers Edgar, 20 and Alfred, 17?

Edgar, pictured left, a carpenter's mate, had been working on the roof of the
new B Building while Alfred helped move incoming aircraft around the site.

Alan's headmaster Mr Crickmore appeared alongside him."Look's like the
airfield's been hit," he muttered.

Young Alan was sent home to Woodcote Road in Swaythling, where he asked his mum
Anne if he should go up to the factory to find out more.

She agreed and as Alan walked up Wide Lane he could see people being carried
away in the distance. He returned home to find his mum in a dreadful state.

Suddenly Alfred walked through the front door and told how a friend had saved
him by shoving him beneath a workbench. But there was still no sign of Edgar.

He had been due to play football that afternoon - as he did every Wednesday -
and his mother had put out his boots and socks on the back door step ready for
him to take after tea.

It was now the evening, another raid had begun, and there was no sign of him.

The next morning brought the news the family had dreaded. Alan's father, Edgar
Eagle Snr, was told his son's body was in Portswood School which was being used
as a mortuary.

Alan recalls: 'I can see my dad now putting on his coat and trilby hat and
saying 'I'm going to identify him.' Mum was crying and it was very grim indeed.

"Dad left with typical stiff upper-lip and came back and confirmed it was Edgar.
Three years later my parents also lost my brother Robert, who was killed in
Burma."

Seven-year-old Helen Burnet, standing in her Woolston garden, had also stared as
the plume of black smoke weaved a tapestry through the sky blue canvass.

Then came an abrupt knock at the front door in Swift Road. A policeman stood on
the doorstep and Helen hid behind her mother. They were talking about an
incident at Cunliffe-Owen.

A very bad business, said the PC. There had been casualties. Helen's daddy would
not be coming home.

Fred Burnet, a riveter, had died inside B Building shortly after returning from
his tea break.

Helen recalls: "I'll never forget that sombre conversation on the doorstep. Poor
Mum was totally devastated afterwards."

Fate, as always, had also conspired to deal a cruel hand. Indeed some, like
Sidney Beavis, had only been working at Cunliffe for two days. His motorbike
wouldn't start that day and he was worried about being late for work and
creating a bad impression.

Sidney, who had a young son, determinedly worked on the engine, fixed it and
roared off to the plant. His conscientiousness cost him his life.

A community was in mourning. And many continued to ponder the lateness of the
raid warning while other rumours began to circulate.

One concerned the Luftwaffe's apparent desire to target Cunliffe. Had B Building
contained a secret?

TWO days before the tragedy, young toolmaker Jim Greening peered inside B
Building. It was lunchtime and his mate, Tommy Thorne, had told him something
rather special was housed inside the new hangar.

True enough, there stood a German Heinkel III bomber.  It had arrived the
previous Sunday night and appeared complete and in beautiful condition apart
from ripped tyres and a smashed canopy which indicated a crash landing.

Jim, 20, was astonished. How had it got there? And why was it inside the hangar?

Two days later, on September 11, Jim ran for his life as the bombs poured.

He survived but the terrible, chaotic images of that day have never left him.
Neither has the nagging thought that somehow the Heinkel was something to do
with the raid.

He said: "No one has ever been able to explain its presence at Cunliffe. A
defector could have flown it in - or it could have crashed.

"In any case, I firmly believe the Germans came back to specifically destroy the
aircraft because it may have contained technological secrets."

In the event, the bomber survived the raid largely intact.

But what of the late raid warning?

Cue the long-standing claim that German pilots used captured RAF aircraft during
the raid.

Harry Meachen, the police officer who had arrived first at the scene, recorded:
"At around 3pm my wife and I were in the garden of our house in Ripstone Gardens
at Highfield when five Blenheim bombers flew low towards Eastleigh Airport.

"As they flew overhead the British markings could be clearly seen and I turned
to my wife and said: "Don't worry - they are ours."

Mr Meachen, a trained ARP aircraft spotter, added: "After circling the airport,
the planes released a number of bombs . . . I know the aircraft were Blenheims."

His observation is greeted sceptically by survivors, who insist the German Iron
Cross was emblazoned upon the bombers' wings.

Yet the testimony of Rita Goree, a shorthand typist at Cunliffe, offers a
further intriguing insight:

"I was taking forms up the steps of the flight controller's office that
afternoon. I met Percy Woodford, the flight controller, and Group Captain Bebb,
Cunliffe's chief test pilot, standing at the top.

"There was a terrible noise of several aircraft approaching the factory coming
from the Eastleigh Carriage Works end of the Airfield. Group Captain Bebb said
they were Blenheims - our own aircraft.

"I think he said that because they were able to get in so low.  But then the
bombs were dropped and we ran for our lives to the nearest shelter."

Did confusion over the aircrafts' identity lead Cunliffe's rooftop plane
spotters to fatally delay their warning?

And does this explain why the raiders were met with so little return fire from
the ground?

TIME muddles, distorts and confuses recollection.  It blurs facts and spawns
myths. Fading, conflicting memories meanwhile combine with incomplete wartime
records to double the researchers' formidable task.

The Cunliffe tragedy is a classic quagmire of contradictions, claims and
counter-claims.  Yet a handful of facts can offer stepping stones to the truth.

Firstly, the mysterious presence of a German Heinkel at Cunliffe cannot be
disputed, as photographic evidence published here shows. But did the plane
prompt the raid?

Available evidence rather suggests the Cunliffe attack was carried out in error
and the nearby Spitfire final assembly unit was the real target.

Crucially, the logbook of one pilot involved in the raid, Balthasar Aretz,
records the target was the "Spitfire works and airfield."

Indeed, Hitler was determined to blunt the Spitfire threat as this was the
prerequisite to his planned invasion of Britain.

And, significantly, the same crack German unit which attacked Cunliffe returned
within days to hit Supermarine's Spitfire works at Woolston and Itchen.

The unit concerned was Experimental Group 210, based near Paris.

Pilot logbooks show the Cunliffe raid was launched from a base at Cherbourg and
led by Otto Hintze. Eight or nine Messerschmitt fighter-bombers were involved.

The fact that the bombers never struck the nearby Spitfire final assembly
factory suggests the Luftwaffe believed it had been wrecked on the 11th when, in
reality, Cunliffe had been on the receiving end.

The captured Blenheims theory meanwhile remains problematic.

All types of RAF aircraft were commonly seen in the skies above the Cunliffe
plant as they came in for repair or modification. It's tempting to conclude any
sighted RAF Blenheims that day were observed before the raid occurred and
somehow confused with actual involvement in the attack.

Or, of course, it was a simple case of mistaking Blenheims for German bombers.

Equally, it must surely be conceded that any aircraft identification problem
that afternoon could well have contributed to a fatal delay in issuing the
factory's double red alert.

B Building was rebuilt after the attack and repair, modification and assembly
work was carried out on a range of aircraft including Hurricanes.

However, the firm vacated the aerodrome in 1948 and Ford now use the site to
produce Transit vans.

A small inscribed plaque inside Ford's foyer continues to link the past to the
present.

It lists the fallen, and there survivors will meet today to remember those who
died at their workbenches and in the fields beyond.

Winifred Hopper will be among them.

She said: "I remember going back to the factory shortly after the raid and a man
on the gate showed me a piece of cloth.

"He told me that was all that was left of his son, who had started work just a
couple of days before the bombing.

"Today we can remember his son and all our other fellow workers."


LOAD-DATE: September 11, 2004

LANGUAGE: English

                  Copyright 2004 NewsQuest Media Group Limited

                              147 of 301 DOCUMENTS

                         Independent on Sunday (London)

                           September 12, 2004, Sunday

SPECIAL REPORT: WAR ON TERROR - THE FRIENDSHIP THAT SHAPED THE POST-9/11 WORLD;
 9/11 THE LEGACY: THE TERRORIST ATTACKS ON AMERICA THREE YEARS AGO

BYLINE: JAMES NAUGHTIE From far left: Tony Blair and George Bush at Camp David;
crowds fleeing the World Trade Centre attack on 9/11; Bush's chief of staff
Andrew Card brings word of the attacks to the President in Florida. Below, the
Prime Minister speaking to the TUC in Brighton - the news had just broken and he
scrapped his prepared speech to say a few words about events in New York and
Washington CARMEN TAYLOR/AP; ERIC DRAPER/AP; SUZANNE PLUNKETT/AP; PAUL
RICHARDS/AFP; CHRIS ISON/PA

SECTION: First Edition; NEWS; Pg. 10,11

LENGTH: 2848 words


Bush and Blair were thrown together by war, and little else. Without the 11
September attacks, and the war in Afghanistan that followed, their relationship
would have had none of the tingling intimacy that came to characterise it within
nine months of George Bush's inauguration. No transatlantic relationship in
their lifetimes had turned on such a moment, and it was that instant realisation
by Tony Blair on a dark afternoon in Brighton that set the pattern for the next
three years and, for him, necessitated a commitment that could not be reversed,
even when it led him into a forest of political perils that seemed likely to
swallow him up.

Back in the summer of 2001, Blair was already grateful for the happy lift that
he felt in Washington. At home, he'd be assailed by voters wondering why the
promised health service reforms hadn't eliminated the waiting time for a heart
operation, or why the trains still didn't run on time, or whether he'd yet made
up his mind whether it was a good time for Britain to join the single European
currency (and, if so, when). In America, there was none of this. He was the
visiting friend in whom everyone seemed interested. Whether it was Ted Kennedy
praising him for bringing relative peace to Northern Ireland or Bob Dole
thanking him for pressing on in the Balkan war to get rid of Slobodan Milosevic,
he was welcomed. All this played a part in Blair's character as a leader. He
enjoyed the stage America gave him, and because he is an actor by instinct and a
performer who savours occasions and moments of drama, he reciprocated.

The American affair that was kindled by Bill Clinton and that flowered
throughout his presidency continued to grow after the arrival of Bush, to
Blair's surprise and relief, and on 11 September 2001, turned into a thing of
passionate intensity. He was closer to the President than any other foreign
leader and spoke to him more often than quite a few senior members of the
administration in Washington. The price was a certain detachment from all but
his closest political colleagues on the other side of the Atlantic. And across
the English Channel, on the European continent, where Blair had spent his first
term in office trying to manage a reconciliation with presidents, chancellors,
and prime ministers who saw Britain as a stand-offish and reluctant partner in
their enterprise of political integration, this new friend of the United States
experienced a tangible chill. In France, for example, it was thought that you
had to choose between being a European or an Atlanticist. You couldn't be both.

To compensate for those difficulties, Blair had his conversations with the Oval
Office. They were long, frequent and generally friendly. But he discovered that
even a relationship like the one with Bush, which had been cemented in the days
after 9/11 and which matured when they went to war in Afghanistan in search of
Osama bin Laden, could not rebalance the scales. After all, he was not an
American politician. Doting editorials, even in The New York Times, were read by
almost no one who could vote for him; flattering findings in opinion polls in
the United States might occasionally be reported in Britain with some awe, but
for everyone who was impressed, there was someone else who would complain about
the intimacy with Bush, a President who, from his earliest days in office,
seemed to grate with the European political class and set their teeth on edge.
Although Blair was drawn westward across the Atlantic in search of power and
influence as well as by instinct, the consequence was that he seemed detached
from the political culture on which he had to feed to survive.

The accident

In Europe, the new Bush administration was being caricatured as a trigger- happy
band well before 11 September. Although the full weight of neo-conservative
thinking wasn't yet understood in most European capitals, enough was known of
Dick Cheney and Donald Rumsfeld, in particular, to raise the hackles of the
dominant political class. The lack of knowledge about Bush, whom diplomats in
Washington were still trying to understand, exacerbated the prevailing
uneasiness in London, Paris and Berlin.

One of the indirect consequences of this atmosphere was an important strategic
decision by Blair. After his re-election campaign in the summer of 2001, won
easily against a Conservative Party still riven by the agonies that had sapped
the Major government of its will to live five years before, he changed foreign
secretaries. Everyone was surprised. Gordon Brown did not know it was about to
happen, nor did Jack Straw, who was making preparations for an expected move
from the Home Office to the Environment Department, and nor did the victim,
Robin Cook. Blair has always denied that his removal came about principally
because of the aversion he had developed to some members of the administration
in Washington - Dick Cheney, in particular - but it remains true that the Bush
administration shed no tears on his behalf.

In his attitude to Bush, Blair had no doubt. There were two primary reasons that
moved him to such certainty. The first was that in their opening meeting at Camp
David in February 2001, they found their conversations easier than they had
expected. The diplomatic foreplay had gone well. Second, Blair was personally
convulsed by the events of 9/11 and felt drawn into the resulting agony that
some other leaders would have resisted as a matter of discipline. When they
arranged that first meeting for February 2001, the month after Bush's
inauguration, a vast amount of preparation was done. Blair was nervous.

Advice poured in from the Washington embassy about Bush's style and attitude,
and Blair spent an unusual amount of time in preparation. But Bush seemed
concerned, too. His officials made meticulous preparations for the visit: there
was much worrying, for example, about how informal they could be at their first
encounter.

As it turned out, Blair was the one who perhaps betrayed the fragility of the
atmosphere, asking first how they should address each other. He wanted to avoid
"Mr President". They immediately opted for first names, and Blair came home
relieved. His early judgment was the one he has repeated often since, and never
changed: Bush is quicker in conversation than you expect, more decisive than
you've been led to believe, but he isn't interested in talking in terms of
ideas, only practicalities.

So he was comfortable with Bush. Even as the President began to be lampooned
across Europe, mocked for his malapropisms and painted by cartoonists as a
clueless cowboy, and the Labour Party rumbled ominously about the
neo-conservative rhetoric of some in the administration, Blair thought he had a
relationship that would prosper. The 9/11 attacks forced the pace. In the next
few days afterwards, Blair seemed to be everywhere. The first leader to talk to
Bush, he was in Berlin and Paris within the week, talking to other Europeans and
then to General Pervez Musharraf in Pakistan. Outside church on that first
Sunday, for the first time he consciously echoed Bush in talking of "war". He
went to Washington on 20 September.

As he flew west, there was already disquiet in London about the atmosphere in
the White House. Blair shared some of the nervousness. Knowing the obsession in
some corners of Washington about Iraq, he feared an early push to war there.

But the difference between Blair and some of those advising him was that he
found the "good and evil" rhetoric less scary than they did.

When he arrived, after a few hours in New York to inspect the rubble at Ground
Zero, Blair had the meeting with Bush that is now seen as the most important of
their early conversations. For 20 minutes they were alone in the Blue Room at
the White House, and when Blair came out he seemed to his Washington ambassador
and his Downing Street aides to be in a notably determined mood. Something had
been settled. His principal aim, to tell Bush that he would support an attack on
the Taliban and al- Qa'ida in Afghanistan, but not (for the moment) on Iraq, had
been achieved. Bush had already decided that Iraq must wait, a decision settled
at Camp David four days earlier. In return, Blair was ready to commit himself to
stand with Bush, despite the acute nervousness already disturbing his government
at home. Just before he left, Clare Short, the Secretary of State for
International Development, had broken ranks to say that the bombardment of
Afghan civilians would be unbearable. But Blair was now on board. An hour later,
he got a standing ovation on Capitol Hill in the course of the President's
address to both houses simply for being there, "Thank you, friend," said Bush.

In the normal course of events, Blair is often slow to make up his mind. Coming
to power in 1997, Blair led his government in some radical policies - on
constitutional change, for example - but as a decision-maker, he often saw
himself as the tortoise rather than the hare. In government, that attitude does
not always have the fable's happy ending. When he does jump, he makes a
spectacular leap. But it often takes some time.

Therefore, after 9/11, the day when there was not time for thought and Blair's
emotions were seized in a way that had not happened to him in government before,
it was quite natural for him to want to slow things down. In his relations with
Bush, he slipped almost without thinking into the role of the adviser at the
shoulder who is preaching caution and playing for time. A couple of years later,
when Blair's public image at home was that of the crusader with blazing eyes,
this truth was often forgotten. But Blair's own justification for his policies
in support of Bush - that he was a calming influence on some of the most warlike
spirits in Washington - was a genuine belief, and an accurate account of the
posture he adopted at the time. Whether it was wise - or right - to allow the
closeness to flower into such a fusion of spirits was the question that would
come to bedevil his premiership, but at the beginning it seemed to him an
expression of his natural instincts: with convictions settled in the firestorm
of 9/11, and bolstered by a deep emotion, he then wanted to proceed with
caution.

In this attitude, and in Blair's counsel to the President over the following 18
months or so, up to the moment when troops crossed the border into Iraq, lies
the explanation for the relationship that has puzzled so many of his supporters
and colleagues.

Crazy for war

In the high summer of 2002, Blair appeared to his colleagues to have reconciled
himself to war. He began to wear a distant look. He spoke of the possibility of
failure at the United Nations and was convinced that only force would remove
Saddam Hussein. Blair's concern was his own freedom of action. Without UN
sanction and the backing of a coalition of the sort that had supported the
Afghan campaign, he knew he would be hobbled. He would be a leader surrounded by
doubters, fighting public opinion and the press, and he had a politician's
instinctive understanding of how difficult it would be to conduct a war like
that. It wouldn't matter that he thought he was right if everyone else thought
he was wrong.

Colin Powell's interest was different, but coincided with Blair's. He feared the
loss of allies whose help he needed in the Middle East and on the Indian
subcontinent, in Nato and in the unstable outposts of the old Soviet empire.
Blair spoke of his fear of an America acting alone in the world; so did Powell.

Powell shared these thoughts with Jack Straw. It was around this time that they
became more than acquaintances as foreign ministers, and firm friends. They were
speaking on the phone almost daily - on one day during the later UN
negotiations, eight times - and they shared their frustrations. Powell was frank
about his problems, extraordinarily so. Referring to the
Cheney-Rumsfeld-Wolfowitz group in the administration, Powell did not feel it
necessary to conceal his irritation and feeling of alienation from their view.
He told Straw in one of their conversations that they were "fucking crazies".

Straw admitted publicly that much could have been done differently, and when it
was put to him that the Cheney-Rumsfeld-Wolfowitz group had dictated the policy,
he went so far as to say that surely no one would expect him to agree with those
people. But Blair was not in a position to take such a step backward. Having
made the case that the threat from Iraq was real and imminent, he found himself
unwilling to turn away from war, or from its consequences.

The riddle of the sands

Spies and soldiers were perplexed by the Iraq war from the beginning, and when
the old regime had been toppled, the shadows deepened. The facts and assumptions
that were the war's justification seemed to shimmer and disappear like a mirage
in the desert heat, and the very ease with which the first objectives were
achieved taunted the victors with new uncertainties. Iraq remained violent,
mysterious and threatening. The military threat that was the justification for
war was transformed quickly into a political crisis for Bush and Blair.

The Bush-Blair partnership can't be separated from the intelligence debates that
preceded the war and the arguments that followed it, because the inherited
assumption at Downing Street and the White House is that the flow of
information, analysis and gossip back and forth from the secret parts of the
governments is the bloodstream of the "special relationship".

One scene illustrates the primacy of this aspect of the relationship. On the day
after 9/11, with the air corridors over the Atlantic shut to all commercial
traffic and every commercial airport in the United States closed, one plane took
off from Britain to head west. It contained an interesting trio of visitors to
Washington - the chief of MI6, Sir Richard Dearlove; the deputy director general
of MI5, Eliza Manningham-Buller; and the director of GCHQ, Sir Francis Richards.
Once in Washington, they were driven straight to the headquarters of the CIA in
Langley, Virginia, to see old friends and colleagues. The next morning they were
gone.

(By a curious coincidence, they gave a lift home to their old boss, John Major,
who had been stranded in Washington on a business trip. Like George Bush Sr,
James Baker and a number of other veterans of the first Bush administration, he
is a board member of the Carlyle Group, whose secretive dealings in the Gulf
states have attracted interest and, in some quarters, notoriety.)

The loner

The Blair smile is a disguise, because it suggests a gregarious character. One
of his closest friends at the top of his government tells the truth of it like
this: "Tony has always been a loner and we all know it." Blair is explained by
his individualism much more easily than by the outside forces that may sometimes
seem to have made him what he is. As the years in office have gone by, these
influences have become less important than the core personality. As Blair has
aged into his fifties, becoming thinner, a touch greyer, and with a rougher
physical edge, some of the soft padding that politicians have to acquire has
been stripped away. His essential wiring has been revealed.

Asked this question by perhaps his closest friend in government over a lunch
table: "Our people really hate us now, don't they?" there was only one honest
answer: "Yes, they do." He was talking not so much about Labour MPs,
discontented and rebellious though they were, but about the broader swathe of
"our people" outside Parliament to whom Blair and the war had become
unpalatable.

There are no calendars for prime ministerial lives. Some are short, some long.
Some fall from power - three of the last eight have left office without an
election - and the parliamentary system, even when there is a huge government
majority, is an unpredictable and wilful beast. A year after he invaded Iraq,
Blair knew that he was nearing the end of his time. It might last a year or two,
taking him beyond what he could still hope would be a third election victory if
attention turned away from the world's troubles; or it might end sooner. But
Blair's unquestioned mastery of British politics was over. Iraq would be his
epitaph.

Even if his batteries recharged themselves, as they have often done before, and
even if he did something extraordinary before he went - such as winning a
referendum on the European constitution - he would remain the Prime Minister who
fought a war that may divide peoples and governments for a generation or more.
He would leave a Middle East in flux and a Western alliance in Nato that wonders
after Iraq whether the old obligations of multinational partnership will ever be
taken seriously again.

The Accidental American: Tony Blair and the Presidency' is published by
Macmillan on 17 September. To order a copy at a special price of pounds 17.99
(rrp pounds 18.99) call Independent Books Direct on 08700 798897

LOAD-DATE: September 12, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 2004 Independent Print Ltd

                              148 of 301 DOCUMENTS

                                  The Observer

                               September 12, 2004

Review: TV: FEAR IN YOUR FRONT ROOM: It's been a week for simulations and dramas
about terrorist attacks - all of it infinitely more watchable than the real
thing

BYLINE: KATHRYN FLETT

SECTION: Observer Review Pages, Pg. 20

LENGTH: 1636 words


10 O'CLOCK NEWS BBC1 THE GRID BBC2

QUITE UGLY ONE MORNING ITV1 CRISIS COMMAND BBC2 SHOULD I WORRY ABOUT. . .? BBC2

PARKINSON ITV1

FRIDAY NIGHT WITH JONATHAN ROSS BBC1

Clockwise from above: Dylan McDermott in The Grid; Michelle Cox in
Whistleblower; Crisis Command's 'ministers'.

IF I HAD ever wondered wherein lay my own personal Paula Radcliffe - i.e. the
point where I couldn't go on watching the television even though every fibre of
my being was telling me I should - then I found out the Friday before last, at
the top of the news, as a man carried the limp and bloodied body of a dead child
from the smouldering shell of the Beslan school, at which point I got up and
walked out of the room. After a couple of decades spent sating an unquenchable
thirst for news, for the first time I'd hit the wall.

I tuned, warily, into the BBC's 10 O'Clock News last Tuesday and noticed that
the reliably chipper Huw Edwards looked a bit weary as he prepared viewers,
already reeling from BBC1's Whistleblower , for perhaps the most horrific piece
of footage I have ever seen: the Beslan hostage-takers' video from inside the
school, which I viewed through my fingers, head-in-hands, shaking in disbelief.

It does a soul no good to see images of such extraordinary cruelty, to know that
so many of those terrified semi-naked children, parents, teachers and carers
huddled around the tripwired explosives guarded by hooded cap tors, were waiting
to die and, as a result, I cannot be alone in having felt depressed and nervily
on-edge all week. I even started wondering whether it was sensible to board the
flights my family and I were booked to take on 11 September.

Every synapse of my brain screamed: ' Don't be so bloody stupid! ' Every sinew
of my heart told me that this irrational, low-level, non-specific,
batten-down-the-hatches kind of niggling fear is now as virulently contagious
and incurable as the common cold.

Perhaps, then, the third anniversary of 11 September might have been better
marked with less in the way of alarmist documentaries (C4's The 9/11
Conspiracies ), dramatised terrorthons (BBC2's The Grid ) and undercover
reporting with hidden cameras (the aforementioned Whistleblower , a depressing
but somehow entirely unsurprising investigation into non-existent security at
Manchester airport) and more in the way of. . . oh, I don't know, wildlife docs,
comedies or just plain old-fashioned fun dramas, such as Sunday night's
excellent ITV1 offering, Quite Ugly One Morning, which starred Jimmy Nesbitt as
a dishevelled journalist who looked not unlike the way I was feeling.

Once upon a fading memory, the grimmest thing that happened during the first
week of September was returning to school. From now on it means recalling the
Russian children who went to school and never came home, and watching that Twin
Towers footage over and over, ad infinitum. And if you think these anniversaries
may one day pass unmarked by television, forget it. Come the end of August,
seven years after the event, there's still room for a few Diana documentaries;
the fact that there's really nothing left to say on the subject of a woman who
died in a accidental car crash notwithstanding.

BBC2 nearly pulled The Grid , which ran over three nights last week, because it
featured a Chechen terrorist, but they would have been better off taking it out
of the schedule for the simple reason that, despite its $ 20 million of
co-production cash and a starry cast, it had apparently been scripted by Spock
at his most dementedly logical.

A slick thriller focusing on transatlantic tensions in the field of joint
counter-ter rorism, the first episode kicked off with a Sarin gas attack and
closed with a handful of bombs, but scarifying timeliness alone was not enough
to engage this viewer's emotions or, apparently, even those of the actors.
Julianna Margulies, in particular, delivered most of her lines as if she was
reading from cue cards, while a
let's-help-Middle-America-understand-the-Middle-East approach to the screenplay
made for some of the most excruciating exposition ever committed to film.

'Islam inspired a humane civilisation and made some of the greatest
contributions to the culture of mankind,' corrected one counter-terrorism
character, face full of po, after Margulies had embarked on a rant about the
perceived subjugation of Muslim women. In response to being shamelessly
patronised surely most viewers on this side of the pond would have shouted 'shut
up and get on with the plot. . .' Or was that just me?

Then it turned out that those few bits of the script that hadn't been penned by
Spock and rewritten by the Inter-Faith Committee For Wearisome Political
Correctness had been got at by an undercover operative disguised as a dandy
highwayman: 'Don't drink, don't smoke, what do you do?' inquired Jemma Redgrave
of another Goody Two Shoes spook; to which Adam Ant would have replied: 'Put on
a little make-up, make-up/ Make sure they get your good side, good side'.

In contrast to The Grid , I tuned into BBC2's Crisis Command: Could You Run the
Country? expecting very little and ended up gripped, not to mention exhausted.
This clever little exercise in scaring us witless made three members of the
public government ministers for a day, gave them access to advice and
information from assorted experts and stood by as they attempted to handle a
national emergency by making decisions on a multiple choice basis. In this case,
the first of four manufactured crises, it was an outbreak of plague in a
Liverpool hospital.

The quasi-cabinet comprised Andrew Morris, the boss of Earl's Court and Olympia,
Sahar Hashemi, the co-founder of a chain of coffee shops, and Carmel McConnell,
the chair of a children's charity, assisted by the former assistant chief of
defence staff, Sir Timothy Garden, the ex-Conservative Party spinmistress,
Amanda Platell, and a former emergency services adviser, Charles Shoebridge. The
latter all bustled with convincing authority and clearly relished their
improvised scripts, which involved barking stuff like, 'Ministers, please make
decisions based on the facts as they actually stand rather than as you would
wish them to be', which had the ring of truth.

Meanwhile, as the plague scenario unfolded, with actors playing doctors in the
hospital and riot police outside, the crisis cabinet made one bad decision after
another, after another.

Having ordered hospital staff to treat infected patients before contamination
suits had arrived, rejected the help of the army, attempted to evacuate
non-plague patients instead of sealing the hospital, vaccinated plague victims
instead of emergency services staff and employed riot control measures to combat
escapees but without authorising the use of firearms, they ended up making only
two correct decisions: to be truthful with the media and tell them that there
was an outbreak of plague, and to authorise the use of vaccines still undergoing
tests. Bizarrely, this all made for genuinely edge-of-the-seat viewing.

As they failed to contain the outbreak and watched films of the hordes (well, a
hordlet of about six people - but this was the BBC) of panicked rioters breaking
out of the hospital and taking to the streets of Liverpool, the Cabinet's
expressions said a great deal, though the results of their actions said even
more: 75,000 people infected, 49,000 dead and a cost of £56 billion to the
economy. There's no room for humane approaches in this kind of crisis,
apparently - it's strictly a
shoot-first-ask-questions-later-and-then-try-suing-us scenario. Next week it's
flooding. Better start building that Ark.

What with being holed up at home and subject to televisual outbreaks of
terrorism and plague, I was more than ready for the on-the-money (titlewise at
least) new BBC1 series Should I Worry About. . .? presented by Richard Hammond,
the glove compartment-sized accessory from Top Gear

What, after all, could possibly be left to worry about - other than, perhaps,
for Hammond, the fact that the BBC had given him something tiny,
pastel-coloured, girly, hatchbacky (Ford Pingu? Daihatsu Tweenie? Nissan Noddy?)
and quite obviously mortifying to have to be seen driving as he buzzed chirpily
round the country trying to prove that mobile phones fry our brains.
Unfortunately nothing was proved other than that prime time programmes about how
mobile phones might fry your brains are capable of turning the discerning
viewer's mightiest organ into something resembling chopped liver. As
investigations go this was presumably meant to be the week's light-ent.

Finally, deadlines preclude me from ever reviewing the most recent Friday Night
with Jonathan Ross , on BBC1, or the new ITV1 Parkinson (indistinguishable from
the BBC version), so I ask you to cast your mind back a week or so, when Ross,
who gives great Radio 2 but can't do interviews, 'interviewed' Paul Newman,
while Parkinson, who can do interviews, was stuck with Tom Cruise, who looks as
though he might, but doesn't.

A guest-swap would have worked. Ross and Cruise could have joshed their way
cheerfully through 15 minutes or so, while Parky would have made the most of
Newman, who doesn't like interviews much but might have been seduced none the
less.

After Parky was forced to indulge Cruise's soliloquy on the subject of
Scientology while ignoring the stuff we really want to know about, namely
Nicole, I noticed that ITV1 screened the risible John Travolta movie Battlefield
Earth , from an original load of old codswallop by L. Ron Hubbard. Just who is
this Scientologist scheduler at ITV1 and how dare they hijack Saturday,
currently the most banal but, thankfully, also the least doom-laden night of the
entire television week?


LOAD-DATE: September 13, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

                       © 2004 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              149 of 301 DOCUMENTS

                                 Sunday Express

                               September 12, 2004

EVACUATION PLAN FOR AL QAEDA ATTACK WILL LEAVE 6MILLION BEHIND; TERROR ESCAPE
FIASCO

BYLINE: EXCLUSIVE By Tim Shipman Defence Editor

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 50 words


MILLIONS could die in a terrorist strike on Britain because plans to evacuate
cities are in total chaos.

Only a million of London's seven million inhabitants could get out in time, a
secret dossier reveals. And a special force set up to deal with attacks would
take 48 hours to get there.

LOAD-DATE: September 13, 2004

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Newspaper

                       Copyright 2004 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS

                              150 of 301 DOCUMENTS

                                 Sunday Express

                               September 12, 2004

TAXPAYERS FACE MASSIVE BILL FOR PROTECTING WINDSORS FROM TERRORIST ATTACK; GBP
100M ROYAL SHIELD

BYLINE: EXCLUSIVE By Keith Perry Royal Editor

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 639 words


THE COST of protecting the Royal Family from the growing risk of terrorist
attack has rocketed to more than GBP 50million a year.

And a former key royalty protection chief put the total cost of providing the
security shield at an amazing GBP 100million a year - although this figure is
disputed by Scotland Yard.

The Home Office refuses to discuss the exact cost for fear of a public outcry,
but sources have admitted the price of the Metropolitan Police's 24hour SO14
royalty protection squad alone has risen "significantly" from GBP 27million in
2000.

On top of the increased need to counter the terrorism threat has come the cost
of beefing up security at royal palaces following the farce which saw prankster
Aaron Barschak invade Prince William's 21st birthday party at Windsor Castle.

The publicity seeker simply climbed over a wall but failed to trigger a police
response despite activating seven alarms and being clearly visible on CCTV as he
moved around.

Scotland Yard says it is "energetically" implementing the 28 recommendations
made in the subsequent hardhitting inquiry by Commander Frank Armstrong of the
City of London Police.

Protecting royal homes has become one of the largest expenses. Some have armed
police guards all year round, regardless of whether members of the family are
there.

The bill for guarding the Queen at Balmoral this year will be GBP 1.2million,
with Grampian Police having to spend GBP 23,000 every week providing 40 officers
to guard the Royal Family during their traditional summer break.

Aberdeen MSP Brian Adam said:

"We are told we can't afford bobbies on the beat and here we are paying this
much money for the royals who are only in the area a few weeks of the year.

"It's absurd we have to foot the bill for this when we are underfunded."

A former Royalty Protection officer told the Sunday Express: "The true cost is
cloaked in secrecy because the figure would create an outcry among taxpayers.

"The SO14 royalty protection unit now costs around GBP 32million a year to
provide 24-hour bodyguards for the royals but I would put the true cost of
protecting the Royal Family at GBP 100 million a year if you take into account
the burden placed on police forces around the country.

"Whenever they travel there are huge demands placed on the local police force
and the royal palaces including Windsor Castle and Buckingham Palace still have
to be protected while they are away.

"When the Queen goes to Scotland around 60-70 royalty protection officers travel
up there too and now the military are also involved in royal security which
pushes the bill up further."

Even security at Bagshot Park, the home of the Earl and Countess of Wessex costs
around GBP 1m a year. And the bill for protecting Princes William and Harry
comes in at over GBP 2 million a year. The Duke of York and his daughters have a
protection team considerably larger than the Princess Royal's.

Richard Sumray, vice chairman of the Metropolitan Police Authority's finance
committee, said: "Whatever the costs of royal protection were in 2000, I would
anticipate they will be significantly higher now because of issues such as the
increased terrorist threat and the recommendations of the Armstrong Report.

"But I would consider GBP 100million to be wide of the mark. I would doubt very
much that it was that high."

But some Home Office officials are convinced that the royal security bill - more
than three times the size of the Civil List paid to the Queen, far outweighs the
potential threat.

There have been mutterings from other quarters too. Last year, Prince Harry's
two-month break in Australia was slammed by republicans Down Under angered by
the GBP 600,000 bill for British and Australian police to guard the 19-year-old
throughout his stay.

LOAD-DATE: September 13, 2004

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Newspaper

                       Copyright 2004 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS

                              151 of 301 DOCUMENTS

                  UK Newsquest Regional Press - This is Dorset

                               September 13, 2004

Would-be MP fears UK terrorist attack

BYLINE: Lynn Jackson (lynn.jackson@bournemouthecho.co.uk)

LENGTH: 362 words

DATELINE: Dorset


A LOCAL Tory politician who lost his brother in the Bali bombing has called for
Britain to shift its focus from Iraq onto the terrorist threat from al Qaeda.

Tobias Ellwood who aims to become MP for Bournemouth East fears there could soon
be a major terrorist attack in the UK and says more resources need to be pumped
into security measures.

His call came after at least nine people died and more than 160 were injured
when it is believed three suicide bombs exploded outside the Australian Embassy
in Indonesia's capital Jakarta.

The local police force's chief of detectives believes the blasts were caused by
car bombs similar to that used to attack the Bali nightclub in 2002 which killed
more than 200 people including Mr Ellwood's brother Jonathan.

Both bombings and the blast at the Marriott Hotel last year all bore the
hallmarks of the militant Islamic group Jemaah Islamiah linked to al Qaeda.

Despite a string of court cases following the Bali outrage Mr Ellwood believes
the group is still very active.

"This bombing shows that this organisation is far from destroyed and they are
still dangerous " he said. He added Britain and the rest of the world now needed
to focus more on the threat posed by al Qaeda.

"Sadly we are now seeing the true cost of the war with Iraq.

"By starting a war with Iraq we got distracted from the original mission:
al-Qaeda.

"Iraq has been a huge drain on valuable recourses which could otherwise have
been deployed to help countries like Indonesia eradicate terrorism.

"There was no link between al Qaeda and Saddam Hussein but war with Iraq has
made al Qaeda all the more stronger and the world a more dangerous place."

With key dates such as the anniversary of the September 11 attacks imminent he
feared there could soon be a major terrorist outrage in the UK.

"We live in a very dangerous world. I agree with many of the police reports that
state that it is only a matter of time before Britain is targeted.

"But Britain has been cutting back on the armed forces security and police
numbers and that is not the right direction to be taking."

First published: September 10

LOAD-DATE: September 13, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: WARNING: Tobias Ellwood lost a brother in Bali ;

                  Copyright 2004 NewsQuest Media Group Limited

                              152 of 301 DOCUMENTS

                                Burnley Express

                               September 14, 2004

WOMENS MASKED ATTACKER TERROR

SOURCE: Burnley Express

LENGTH: 323 words


Brave duo fight off sex pest


TWO young women were attacked as they walked home along a remote footpath on
Friday night.


The attack happened just before midnight on what is known by locals as the black
path, which runs across a grassed area between the Stonemoor Bottom and
Cambridge Drive estates in Padiham,.


As the 19-year-old and 22-year-old approached the back of Malvern Avenue, they
were attacked from behind by a man wearing a dark-coloured balaclava. He grabbed
hold of one of them around the neck and there was a struggle between him and the
two friends. They put up a vigorous fight and the man ran off towards Thompson
Street.


Apart from a few minor scratches, the women were unhurt, although very shaken by
the ordeal. No weapons were involved.


The attacker was white, aged in his 20s and between 5ft. 10in. and 6ft. tall, of
thin build and wearing a dark-coloured jacket and trousers.


Det. Insp. Dermott Horrigan, who is leading the investigation, said: This was an
attack on two young women who were simply walking home at a relatively remote
spot, which we are taking extremely serious. We believe there may have been a
sexual motive, but we are not sure at this stage.


A number of people have already come forward saying there have been incidents in
the past of a man seen lurking in this area. I particularly want to identify
this man.


I am sure someone on the estates will have a good idea who this individual is
and I want to see whether there is a connection between him and Fridays attack.


I would urge anyone who may have any information to contact us so we can
establish if there is a link or not.


This attack is not being linked to other recent attacks in Burnley and Colne.


Anyone with information should contact Burnley CID on 472144 or Crimestoppers on
0800 555 111.




sue.madigan@eastlancsnews.co.uk


LOAD-DATE: September 15, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                       Copyright 2004 Johnston Press Plc

                              153 of 301 DOCUMENTS

                           Coventry Evening Telegraph

                          September 14, 2004, Tuesday

SUBWAY TERROR;
 VICIOUS ATTACK ON WOMAN, 55; ONE OF GANG AS YOUNG AS EIGHT; POLICE

BYLINE: BY BEN GRIFFIN, CRIME REPORTER CRIME SCENE: A second CCTV image showing
children in the underpass around the time of the attack; SUBWAY SHOCKER: This
CCTV image shows the woman reeling away in the underpass near the Mosley Trading
store in the city

SECTION: City Final Edition; NEWS

LENGTH: 364 words


A CHILD as young as eight is believed to have been involved in the violent
mugging of a Coventry woman.

Three youngsters kicked their 55-year-old victim and emptied her handbag in the
shocking attack in a city centre subway.

Today police took the unusual step of issuing CCTV images in an effort to track
down those responsible.

DC Steve Foster, of the Little Park Street police robbery squad, said: "It was a
nasty attack on a vulnerable lady walking alone at night."

The woman did not need hospital treatment after the incident, but DC Foster
said: "She suffered minor bruising, but it's more the shock and upset rather
than the actual injuries."

The woman was walking in the underpass which connects Hill Street with Upper
Hill Street, heading towards the Mosley Trading store, between 10pm and 10.30pm
on Sunday when she was set upon.

DC Foster said the three youngsters kicked the woman and rooted through her
handbag before giving it back and running away with cash.

The ringleader was a white girl described as being in her mid-teens, but DC
Foster added: "However, they look younger in the picture."

The second attacker is a white girl with blonde, very long hair. She is aged
eight or nine and wore blue trousers and a blue coat.

They were with a boy aged about 15 wearing a red and brown coat.

Anyone with any information is asked to contact the robbery team at Little Park
Street police station on 0845 113 5000.

In the past three weeks police have issued appeals for help in tracing children
they believe are responsible for vicious attacks.

On September 3 a mobile telephone was stolen from a man in White Street,
Hillfields, Coventry, by a gang believed to be aged 12 to 15.

They kicked the man during the incident.

The same gang was linked to another robbery in Berry Street, Hillfields, at
10.25pm on Monday, September 6.

Police said a 15-year-old ringleader and four children aged 11 or 12 mugged a
60-year-old man. They grabbed his throat and pushed him over.

And on Sunday, September 5, two 11-year-olds were beaten up in Corporation
Street in Coventry city centre by a gang of four children aged about 12.

LOAD-DATE: September 14, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

                   Copyright 2004 Coventry Newspapers Limited

                              154 of 301 DOCUMENTS

                UK Newsquest Regional Press - This is Wiltshire

                               September 14, 2004

September 11 terror attack remembered

LENGTH: 174 words


SWINDONIANS have been pausing for thought to remember those who died in the
terrorist attacks of September 11

Around 40 people attended St Mary's Church in Tovey Road on Saturday to remember
the day that changed the world.

Almost 3 000 people died three years ago when four hijacked airliners were
crashed.

Two were flown into the World Trade Centre in New York one into the Pentagon in
Washington DC while another aircraft crashed into fields in Pennsylvania after
it is believed passengers overpowered their captors.

Within hours both World Trade Centre towers had collapsed leaving clouds of dust
across the city and a shocked world in its wake.

Father Liam Slattery priest at St Mary's said: "It's still very fresh in
people's minds.

"It was a day that changed the course of history and even now people regularly
ask each other where they were that day.

"I also think that the continuing war on terrorism being at the forefront of the
news means that my parishioners still feel strongly about the events."

LOAD-DATE: September 14, 2004

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: News

                  Copyright 2004 NewsQuest Media Group Limited

                              155 of 301 DOCUMENTS

                                Birmingham Post

                         September 15, 2004, Wednesday

IRAQI POLICE AND RECRUITS TARGETED IN TERROR ATTACKS

BYLINE: DAISY BLANKS A woman breaks down near the site of a massive explosion
outside a police station at the end of Haifa Street, that has been the scene of
fierce clashes, in Baghdad

SECTION: First Edition; NEWS; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 621 words


I raqi police suffered two mortal blows yesterday when a car bomb blew up
recruits in the centre of Baghdad, killing at least 57, injuring 114, and an
ambush north of the capital left 11 officers and their driver dead.

In the first attack, a bomb in a Toyota car ripped through shops and cafes near
a police station as dozens of Iraqis were applying to join the force.

The blast left a gaping ten foot crater outside the station at the end of Haifa
street, a main Baghdad thoroughfare that has been the scene recently of fierce
clashes.

Nearby shops and buildings were badly damaged and a dozen cars parked nearby
were completely wrecked.

Paramedics and residents picked up body parts scattered across the street and
put them into boxes. Anguished men lifted charred bodies and lay them gently on
stretchers.

The group headed by al-Qaida linked Jordanian militant Abu Musab al-Zarqawi
claimed responsibility for the bombing. The website statement, signed by the
Tawhid and Jihad group, said: 'Thanks to God alone, a lion from the Brigades of
Those Seeking Martyrdom succeeded in attacking the centre of volunteers for the
renegade police apparatus.'

Health Ministry spokesman Saad Al-Amili said at least 47 people were killed and
114 wounded.

Interior Ministry spokesman Colonel Adnan Abdel-Rahman said the bomb was placed
inside a Toyota vehicle parked near the commercial hub, located a short distance
down the road from the police station, which had been closed to traffic.

Mahdi Mohammed, aged 30, was standing outside his Baghdad barber shop when the
explosion went off.

'It was a horrific scene. Seconds earlier people were drinking tea or eating
sandwiches and then I could see their remains hanging from trees,' he said. 'I
could see burning people running in all directions.'

'This is a crime committed against innocent people who needed to find work to
feed their hungry children,' said Alaa Khamas, a kebab vendor. He said he saw a
man who had just bought a kebab from him killed by a flying car wheel.

North-east of the capital, in the town of Baqouba, gunmen in two cars ambushed a
minibus taking policemen back to their station, killing 11 officers and a
civilian.

The attack was launched after the policemen had been told that a trip to a
training camp had been postponed.

More than 60 people died in July when a bomb exploded outside a police
recruiting centre. In Baghdad yesterday, angry crowds near the site of the blast
denounced US forces and interim Iraqi Prime Minister Ayad Allawi's government
for failing to protect police recruiting centres.

'Such places were targeted before,' said Ali Abul-Amir, who was among those
trying to join the force but had gone around the corner to buy a drink when the
explosion went off.

'I blame Ayad Allawi's government for what happened because they did not take
the necessary security measures,' he said.

Pumping their firsts in the air, the crowds also condemned President George
Bush.

Meanwhile, saboteurs blew up a junction where multiple oil pipelines cross the
Tigris River in northern Iraq, setting off a chain reaction in power generation
systems that left the entire country without power.

Firefighters struggled to put out the blaze after the attack near Beiji, 155
miles north of Baghdad. Crude oil cascaded down the hillside into the river.
Fire burned on top of the water.

Beiji is the point where several oil pipelines converge, said Lieutenant Colonel
Lee Morrison of the US Army Corps of Engineers.

One of them apparently was a domestic pipeline that fed a local power plant. The
explosion set off a fire that melted cables and led to the power failure,
electricity officials said.

LOAD-DATE: September 15, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

               Copyright 2004 Midland Independent Newspapers plc

                              156 of 301 DOCUMENTS

                  $%Financial Adviser adviser adviser adviser

                       September 16, 2004 2004 2004 2004

City IFAs may have to plan for terrorist attacks attacks attacks attacks

SECTION: ISSN. 0953-5276 5276 5276 5276

LENGTH: 248 words words words words


CITY-based IFAs may be forced by insurers to draw up detailed emergency back-up
plans in the event of terrorist attacks.

Insurers including Axa are believed to be in talks with the government about
making it a legal requirement for companies in the Square Mile to have in place
business interruption arrangements in order to secure cover.  cover.  cover.
cover.

Reports suggest the insurers are threatening to pull cover for those firms
without back-up plans in place.

Axa was unavailable for comment, but it is understood insurers would require
firms to have fully operational sites outside of the City and have a 'cascading'
alert system, which would ensure key staff are informed quickly in an emergency.

Small firms could in particular feel the impact if such a move was given the go
ahead. A number of the country's IFA firms are based in the City, including Top
20 IFA Lighthouse Group.

But Malcolm Streatfield, chief executive of Lighthouse, said they were unlikely
to be affected by the move, as they already had two offices outside of London -"
in Exeter and near Brighton.

He said: "Should we be forced out of London, we would thankfully have plenty of
space and all our central information technolgy servers are hosted from Exeter.

"With three sites, it means we could recover very quickly."

Studies from America have revealed that since the 11 September attacks in 2001,
company spending on protection against security risks had increased by only 4
per cent.  cent.  cent.  cent.

LOAD-DATE: September 18, 2004 2004 2004 2004

LANGUAGE: English english english english

            Copyright 2004 Financial Times Business Limited limited
                                limited limited

                              157 of 301 DOCUMENTS

                                Birmingham Post

                           September 17, 2004, Friday

TERROR ATTACK VICTIM WORKING FOR MARCONI

SECTION: First Edition; NEWS; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 181 words


A Briton shot dead in Saudi Arabia in an apparent terrorist attack was working
for communications firm Marconi, the company said yesterday. Edmund
Muirhead-Smith, a fatherof-six, was apparently targeted simply because he was a
foreigner, the spokesman said.

The family of the murdered man were said to be in total shock.

Mr Muirhead-Smith was killed in the car park of the Max shopping centre in
eastern Riyadh, a British Embassy spokesman said.

The Marconi spokesman said the 56-year-old had been working for the company as
an equipment training manager. He added: 'There is no evidence to suggest that
he was targeted other than for being a Westerner.'

The British Ambassador to Saudi, Sherard Cowper-Coles, condemned the killing,
saying it would make the British Government more determined to stand with the
Saudi government against 'senseless terror of this kind'. The Saudi-owned TV
station AlArabiya reported that two men in a white Toyota car shot Mr
MuirheadSmith four times in the car park and then fled.

Police were looking for two Saudi suspects.

LOAD-DATE: September 17, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

               Copyright 2004 Midland Independent Newspapers plc

                              158 of 301 DOCUMENTS

                            Daily Post (North Wales)

                           September 17, 2004, Friday

BRITON SHOT IN TERROR ATTACK

SECTION: NW Merseyside Edition; NEWS; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 198 words


A BRITON shot dead in Saudi Arabia in an apparent terrorist attack was a
father-of-six working in the Middle East to support his family, relatives said
last night.

Edmund Muirhead-Smith, who was employed by communications firm Marconi, is
believed to have been gunned down by two men in the car park of the Max shopping
centre in eastern Riyadh.

The family of the 55-year-old, of Torquay, Devon, said in a statement: "At this
time we are struggling to come to terms with the news.

"He will be greatly missed by us all and our love is with him. "

Saudi-owned TV station Al-Arabiya claimed that two men in a white Toyota car had
shot Mr Muirhead-Smith four times before fleeing. Police confirmed they are
hunting for two Saudi suspects.

The British Ambassador to Saudi Arabia, Sherard Cowper-Coles, condemned the
killing and said it would make the Government more determined to stand with the
Saudis against "senseless terror of this kind". A Marconi spokesman said Mr
Muirhead-Smith had been working for the company as an equipment training
manager. "We take security in the region very seriously. It seems that Edmund
was a victim of a chance shooting, " he said.

LOAD-DATE: September 17, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Newspaper

               Copyright 2004 The Liverpool Daily Post & Echo Ltd

                              159 of 301 DOCUMENTS

                        Western Morning News (Plymouth)

                               September 17, 2004

Manager killed in Saudi terror attack

SECTION: News; Other; Others; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 469 words


The family of a Westcountry man killed in a suspected terrorist attack in Saudi
Arabia were yesterday struggling to come to terms with the tragedy.  Edmund
Muirhead-Smith, of Chelston Road, Torquay, was killed in the car park of the Max
shopping centre in eastern Riyadh on Wednesday. He was believed to have been
targeted because he was a foreigner.

Mr Muirhead-Smith, 55, worked for communications firm Marconi as an equipment
training manager.

His family, including his wife Suzanne and the couple's six children, yesterday
released a statement which revealed they had been told about the tragedy just
before midnight on Wednesday.

"At this time we are struggling to come to terms with the news. "He will be
greatly missed by us all and our love is with him," it said.

Speaking from an address in Tunbridge Wells, Kent, Mr Muirhead-Smith's
brother-in-law Terry, who declined to give his surname, said: "The family are
devastated and are in total shock." Mr Muirhead-Smith is thought to have sought
overseas work after losing his job as a software specialist with communication
giant Nortel, at its former Paignton factory, two years ago.

Curtains were closed at the family's large white-painted detached Victorian home
in the Chelston area of Torquay yesterday and there was a police presence
outside the house.

Residents living along the street, in which there are about ten properties, said
they were "shocked" to hear the news. One neighbour, who did not want to be
named, said Mr Muirhead-Smith was a "nice guy".

Another neighbour said: "You don't expect something like this to happen,
especially to people you know." A third neighbour, who also declined to be
named, added: "I had heard someone had died but I didn't realise it was anyone
local.

"I feel very shocked. I'm surprised that someone has died because you don't
expect something like this to happen especially when you live in a street as
quiet as this." A spokesman for Marconi defended security in the area following
the murder.

"It seems that he was a victim of a chance shooting, as it were," the spokesman
said.

"There is no evidence to suggest that he was targeted other than for being a
Westerner." The British Ambassador to Saudi Arabia, Sherard Cowper-Coles,
condemned the killing, saying it would make the British Government more
determined to stand with the Saudi government against "senseless terror of this
kind".

The Saudi-owned TV station Al-Arabiya reported that two men in a white Toyota
car shot Mr Muirhead-Smith four times in the car park and then fled. Police were
looking for two Saudi suspects. Brigadier Mansour al-Turki,a Saudi Interior
Ministry spokesman, said the two assailants were aged under 30 and "wore
traditional Saudi robes".

jkirk@westernmorningnews.co.uk

LOAD-DATE: September 18, 2004

LANGUAGE: English

                      Copyright 2004 Western Morning News

                              160 of 301 DOCUMENTS



                                   The Mirror

                          September 18, 2004, Saturday

COUNCILLOR IN ATTACK TERROR

BYLINE: MICHAEL BRENNAN

SECTION: Eire Edition; NEWS; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 113 words


A GREEN Party councillor may move his 10-year-old daughter from the family home
after it was attacked for the second time in a week.

Chris O'Leary, who represents the South East Ward in Cork city, said rocks and
stones were thrown at his house at 10.30pm on Thursday.

He said yesterday: "My daughter was upset - she's gone out the door to school
today crying. I am considering moving her out for her own safety."

Last Thursday, two youths threw a concrete block through the window of his home
in Mahon, Cork.

Mr O'Leary believes the attacks are connected to his stance on anti-social
behaviour in the area. Gardai said they were investigating the attacks.

LOAD-DATE: September 18, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                            Copyright 2004 MGN Ltd.

                              161 of 301 DOCUMENTS



                                   The Mirror

                          September 18, 2004, Saturday

RACIST TERROR ATTACK;
 COPS HUNT SICK GRAFFITI THUGS

BYLINE: CAITLIN MACKAY

SECTION: Scots Edition; NEWS; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 302 words

HIGHLIGHT: SICK: Racist graffiti covers family's home; CLEAN-UP: Worker removes
slogans


RACIST thugs plastered abusive graffiti all over an Asian family's brand new
pounds 250,000 home in a sickening night attack.

Slogans such as "No Pakis" and "Black B*******" were sprayed on the four-bedroom
detached house in Edinburgh, along with the initials of the British National
Front, a minority racist group.

After daubing their messages of race hate on the home in Silverknowes, the thugs
tried to break in.

Now the 33-year-old owner, a well-respected businessman, fears for the safety of
his wife and two children, aged just five and two.

The family were due to move in today but may now pull out of the deal.

Neighbours were horrified by the attack, which also appalled cops.

Andrew Sherwood, 41, who works for Vodafone, moved on to the new estate 10 days
ago.

He said: "I'm shocked. It's really terrible that this could happen.

"The people round here seem a really nice, friendly bunch and it's horrible that
this could have happened."

And resident Diane Aitken, 38, a mum-of-two, added: "It's terrible.

"It's mindless people who have done this. We have never seen racism ever."
Detectives investigating Tuesday night's attack have already carried out
door-to-door interviews.

Lothian's racism cop, Sgt Gordon Simpson said: "This is particularly sickening
because it is racially motivated.

"It is our policy to take a very hard line on crimes of a racial nature."

Shocked bosses at builders Miller Homes say they will support the family in any
way they can.

Security at Silverknowes Gate, a posh development of 77 three and four-bedroom
homes, has been stepped up.

Patrols at the unfinished site, where Miller Homes still has 25 homes to sell
with a further 25 houses reserved by prospective buyers, are now being carried
out around-the-clock.

LOAD-DATE: September 18, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                            Copyright 2004 MGN Ltd.

                              162 of 301 DOCUMENTS

                             Sunday Times (London)

                           September 19, 2004, Sunday

Moscow police thwart terrorist attack

SECTION: Overseas news; News; 26

LENGTH: 61 words


POLICE in central Moscow intercepted a car packed with explosives yesterday and
said they had thwarted a terrorist attack. The driver told investigators he was
being paid $ 1,000 to take the car to a road used by President Vladimir Putin
totravel to and from the Kremlin. He died from a heart attack in hospital after
questioning.

Beslan carnage, page 25


LOAD-DATE: September 20, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                    Copyright 2004 Times Newspapers Limited

                              163 of 301 DOCUMENTS

                            Evening Times (Glasgow)

                               September 20, 2004

Hunt for thugs after terror syringe attack

SECTION: Pg. 2

LENGTH: 354 words


POLICE are hunting two men who scratched a commuter with a syringe after he
refused to give them money.

The 20-year-old was on a stairway at Garrowhill railway station in Glasgow, on
his way to work, when he was approached by the men, one of whom was carrying a
syringe.

They demanded money and when the man refused, they scratched him with the needle
before running off.

The thugs were last seen heading towards Barlanark.

The victim was taken to hospital and was released after treatment.

The incident happened at around 10.15pm on Friday.

The suspects are both described as around six feet tall. One was of stocky
build.

Police are also appealing for information about a man who tried to rob a woman
in the city's Carntyne Road.

The 33-year-old was locking up the Tan Sun shop at around 9.10pm on Friday when
the man threatened her with what appeared to be a gun and demanded money from
the shop safe.

She refused to give the would-be raider cash and he ran off towards Greyfriars
Road.

Anyone with information about either incident should contact Shettleston CID.

Meanwhile, police are hunting a thug who beat a young mum unconscious in front
of her six-year-old son.

The 26-year-old woman was left with injuries, including a broken cheekbone and
nose, after the

horrific attack in the south side of Glasgow.

The mum had approached the thug on Carnwadric Road, Thornliebank, because she
believed he had earlier thrown a bag of cut grass over her son.

As she spoke to him he launched the brutal attack, hitting her until she was
unconscious.

The woman was taken to Glasgow Victoria Infirmary where doctors say she may need
facial surgery.

Police want to speak to anyone with any information about the attack, which
happened last Wednesday at around 6pm.

The attacker is aged around 20, and is about 5ft 6in tall with short brown hair.

Just before the attack, the thug was walking on Carnwadric Road near Stanalane
Street with a young blonde-haired woman pushing a pram.

Anyone with information should contact Det Constable Mark Rossi of Giffnock
police.

LOAD-DATE: September 21, 2004

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                Copyright 2004 Scottish Media Newspapers Limited

                              164 of 301 DOCUMENTS

                            Express & Echo (Exeter)

                               September 20, 2004

My sex attack terror

SECTION: News; 999; Sexcrime; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 468 words


A terrified Exeter teenager has told how she was sexually assaulted by two men
who tried to force her into a car in broad daylight.  The 17-year-old, who did
not want to be named, said she has been 'scared out of her wits' since the
attack in Heavitree Road.

The youngster had been shopping in the city centre and was walking home when the
two men pounced.

One assaulted her while the other threatened her and told her to get into the
car.

But the frightened girl screamed and ran away as fast as she could - and did not
stop running until she got to her grandmother's house in Heavitree.

The girl said: "I was very scared.  I was walking along Heavitree Road opposite
the Pyramids leisure centre when I noticed two men starting to follow me. I knew
something was wrong but just concentrated on keeping on walking. The first man,
who looked about 30, then approached me and assaulted me and then the next man,
who looked in his 50s, told me to get in his car.

"His front teeth were missing and he said, 'if you don't want to end up looking
like me, you'll get in the car'.  He was very threatening - I was so frightened,
but I just ran and ran until I got to my nan's house and called the police."
Police say they are treating the attack, which happened on Friday morning, as an
isolated incident, but are warning residents to be vigilant and contact them if
they have any information on the two men.

The attacker, who is believed to be in his 30s, was quite tall and had a shaven
head. He was wearing a dark blue short-sleeved T-shirt and baggy trousers and
looked very scruffy. The 50-year-old had dark brown curly hair and his front
teeth were missing. The car is believed to be a red Rover.

The girl's uncle said it had been a terrifying experience for her: "She has been
scared out of her wits. It's a lot for a 17-year-old to have to deal with. It's
just lucky that she didn't hesitate and ran at the first opportunity - who knows
what could have happened." He was angry that the police did not contact the girl
immediately after the attack.

"The incident was reported just after 11am and they still hadn't come around by
7pm. They should have acted straight away." Police spokesman Sergeant Alan Mobbs
said they did respond immediately they received the call and sent officers to
search the area. He said: "We had enough detail to search the immediate area
straight away. Officers already out on patrol were dispatched to the area and we
also studied CCTV footage.  This would have been the quickest way of finding the
suspects if they were still in the area." He added: "If anyone has any
information on the attacks they should contact the police. There must have been
people at the bottom of Heavitree Road around 11am on Friday when the incident
occurred."

LOAD-DATE: September 21, 2004

LANGUAGE: English

                     Copyright 2004 Express & Echo (Exeter)

                              165 of 301 DOCUMENTS



                          Airline Industry Information

                               September 21, 2004

Flight delayed after Russian passengers fear terror attack

LENGTH: 146 words


AIRLINE INDUSTRY INFORMATION-©1997-2004 M2 COMMUNICATIONS LTD

Russian passengers on board a Moscow-bound Cyprus Airways flight delayed
take-off by three hours after accusing three men of being Chechen terrorists
because of their skin tone.

A spokesperson for Cyprus Airways said that the trouble started after a woman
approached a member of the airline's staff claiming that one on the men in the
departure lounge was a terrorist because of his skin tone and beard.

Once on board the aircraft however she and other Russian passengers insisted the
man's hand luggage was searched along with another two men. The pilot took the
decision to clear the aircraft for further security checks.

The aircraft finally took off three hours later when the three men agreed to be
transferred to another flight, reports The Associated Press.

(Comments on this story may be sent to aii.feedback@m2.com)

LOAD-DATE: September 21, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH; ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newsletter


                     Copyright  2004 M2 Communications Ltd
                              All rights reserved

                              166 of 301 DOCUMENTS

                                  The Express

                               September 21, 2004

TERROR GROUPS WOULD BE SO STUPID TO ATTACK US

SECTION: LETTERS; Pg. 50

LENGTH: 79 words


I SUSPECT the reason Britain has not, so far, been attacked by A l Qaeda and
other fundamentalist groups is not because our intelligence services are so
efficient, but precisely the opposite.

Muslim fundamentalist extremists are permitted, indeed almost aided and abetted
by the Home Office, to operate here freely.

They would be incredibly stupid to do anything that might change the UK from
being the safe house that it is.

Robert Readman, Bournemouth, Dorset

LOAD-DATE: September 21, 2004

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Newspaper

                       Copyright 2004 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS

                              167 of 301 DOCUMENTS

                                  The Express

                               September 22, 2004

TEENAGE ENFORCERS TERRORISED SCHOOLS BY ATTACKING PUPILS AND ABUSING STAFF; YOB
GANG BANNED FROM MEETING FOR THREE YEARS

BYLINE: By John Chapman

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 21

LENGTH: 554 words


A GANG of teenage thugs dubbed The Enforcers terrorised schools under the guise
of settling disputes for friends and family members, a court heard yesterday.

Leader Kenny Deacon, 15, and gang members Shane Driscoll, 15, Sam Wooloff, 16,
Joe Knowles, 16, and George Smart, 15, repeatedly attacked and intimidated
pupils while spitting and throwing stones at teachers and staff.

But yesterday the five youths were placed under three-year anti-social behaviour
orders which ban them from all secondary schools in Portsmouth, Hants, and from
meeting with each other.

If the yobs, who have all been thrown out of their own schools, try to get
together they face a maximum of five years in jail.

Portsmouth magistrates heard the gang's victims included a 14year-old boy who
was assaulted outside the city's Miltoncross School. The court heard he was
repeatedly kicked by a gang of teenagers which included Deacon and Wooloff.

The attack happened in front of horrified parents and children who were too
scared to intervene for fear of repercussions.

Even the boy's mother refused to press charges because she feared the gang could
attack the rest of her family.

A pupil at one of the schools regularly terrorised by the gang, speaking after
the case and who asked not be named, said:

"Everyone knew them as The Enforcers.

"You had to do your best not to fall out with someone they knew, because they
would be waiting at the gates when you left."

Deacon, Driscoll, Knowles, Smart and Wooloff, who all live in Portsmouth, were
snared after police compiled a damning dossier of evidence against them.

Constable Neil Kellar, 37, who led the operation against the gang, said after
the hearing: "The court has accepted they are a cohesive gang and if one member
of the gang is called they are able to call upon the services of others.

"Members of that gang were being called upon by students in secondary schools in
Portsmouth to come to the schools to settle disputes.

"The gang are interlinked through brothers, family members and cousins who are
able to bring them in.

"The level of intimidation and fear spread throughout the schools and their
notoriety grew to such an extent they were rumoured to be carrying weapons."

Teachers at Miltoncross School had told PC Kellar of their despair at having to
man the school gates to ensure children were not bullied by Deacon's gang.

And the officer was also told how gang members were abusive to school staff when
they were caught smoking and drinking on school grounds.

The court orders, which leave staff and students free from harassment, were last
night welcomed by schools in the area.

Peter Laggan, business director at Miltoncross School, said:

"We are very pleased with this decision.

"They were making life unpleasant and will no longer be able to hang around our
school gates at the end of the day."

Nigel Hoggarth, deputy headteacher at Mayfield School, said:

"My view is that it will support the school and support the lads in their
future. It will certainly give the opportunity for everyone involved to move
on."

Deputy District Judge Judith Nicholls agreed to lift previous court orders
protecting the anonymity of Deacon, Driscoll, Wooloff, Knowles and Smart so they
could be named and shamed.

LOAD-DATE: September 22, 2004

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Newspaper

                       Copyright 2004 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS

                              168 of 301 DOCUMENTS

                            South Wales Evening Post

                               September 23, 2004

Police plea after terror attack on city driver

SECTION: News; 999; Murders/violentcrime; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 250 words


A Man was forced to hand over the keys to his car when he was threatened with an
iron bar near a Swansea chip shop.  The 33-year-old was approached by three men
during a terrifying attack on Tuesday night.

He was robbed near Rossi's Original fish bar in Neath Road, Landore, just after
8pm and gave the attackers the keys to his black Alfa Romeo car.

The robbers then drove off in the car which has not yet been found.

South Wales Police have issued descriptions of two of the robbers.

One is said to be white, 5ft 10in to 5ft 11in, of slim build and around 30 to 35
years of age. He is said to have a poor complexion, bad teeth, untidy hair and
was wearing a green army-style jacket.

The second person is also white, aged between 25 and 30, of medium to large
build and was wearing a dark tracksuit and trainers.

A spokesman for South Wales Police said: "Three men are said to have approached
another man near the chip shop, threatening him with a weapon similar to an iron
bar.

"As a result, the 33-year-old local man handed over the keys to a black Alfa
Romeo, registration number R858 WCF, in which the three men made off." Swansea
Council member for Landore, Robert Speht, said he was shocked by news of the
robbery. "It's the first time I have heard of anything like this here," he said.

Anyone with information about the offence should contact the CID at Swansea
Central Police Station on 01792 456999 or call Crimestoppers anonymously on 0800
555111.


LOAD-DATE: September 24, 2004

LANGUAGE: English

                    Copyright 2004 South Wales Evening Post

                              169 of 301 DOCUMENTS

                                   The People

                           September 26, 2004, Sunday

TERROR GROUP'S BIG MAC ATTACK

BYLINE: DAVID BROWN

SECTION: 3 Star Edition; NEWS; Pg. 30

LENGTH: 139 words

HIGHLIGHT: TARGET: McDonald's


MANIACS have declared war on a seaside resort's fast food chains.

They are behind at least seven attacks on McDonald's and Pizza Hut over the past
three months.

The sinister extremists, who call themselves Neo Anarchy, want all branches of
the US snack giants shut down in Weston-super-Mare, Somerset.

And they have threatened to step up their hate campaign if their demands are not
met.

The attacks have included arson attempts, vandalism and burglary. Frightened
staff and customers - including children - were evacuated during simultaneous
bomb hoaxes at three stores.

Teams of police officers scoured the targeted takeaways, but fortunately no
bombs were found.

Police said: "It's very worrying. We are taking these attacks very seriously.

"We are doing all we can to catch the people behind this."

LOAD-DATE: September 26, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

                            Copyright 2004 MGN Ltd.

                              170 of 301 DOCUMENTS

                                 Sunday Express

                               September 26, 2004

FURY AT MINISTERS' BID TO GAG SUNDAY EXPRESS ON TERROR ATTACK SHAMBLES; COVER-UP
THAT RISKS THE SAFETY OF US ALL

BYLINE: By Tim Shipman Defence Editor

SECTION: NEWS; Pg.  13

LENGTH: 929 words


A COVER-UP of the life-threatening incompetence which has left Britain fatally
vulnerable to a terror attack was in tatters last night.

Shock revelations exposed the fact that half our cities have no plans for mass
evacuation in the event of a 9/11style strike on home soil - even though
security chiefs say a blitz is inevitable.

MPs denounced a "disgraceful" attempt by ministers to gag the Sunday Express and
other media organisations for exposing Government failures to protect the
public.

Official documents, commissioned by John Prescott, showed that seven out of 10
councils and police forces did not have plans to deal with people contaminated
by chemical, biological, radiological or nuclear attacks.

And only one of England's 28 strategic health authorities told the Deputy Prime
Minister that it was fully ready to deal with mass casualties.

The revelations, by the BBC, deal a blow to the Government's credibility after
the Sunday Express exposed the inadequacy of plans for the evacuation of London.

Mr Prescott's sidekick Nick Raynsford, the Minister for London, has attempted to
silence this paper because we revealed how it could take up to 13 hours to
evacuate just one million people from London following an attack, and 24 hours
before the Army would be able to help.

The BBC report came after Mr Raynsford ordered a series of false and misleading
claims about our reports to be placed on a Government website. He condemned our
article as "wholly inaccurate" even though every single fact was drawn from an
official and highly detailed Government document, leaked by despairing planners.
He challenged our statement that emergency preparations are even more patchy
outside London.

But the BBC revelations entirely support the conclusions of our own report two
weeks ago.

According to the new leak, some 51 per cent of county, metropolitan and unitary
councils do not have evacuation plans. Some 24 per cent said they were working
on the plans, but many did not know when they would be finished.

More than nine out of 10 police forces, fire brigades and councils did not have
plans to deal with contaminated buildings.

Sixty-seven per cent of councils, 42 per cent of police forces and 37 per cent
of fire brigades had no specific measures to support the NHS in the event of
mass casualties.

More than 85 per cent of councils had no plans for handling debris contaminated
in an incident, and 55 per cent had not identified a site for the disposal of
such material.

Fewer than four in 10 police forces had trained all their response personnel for
such an incident. The survey cited by the BBC was conducted last October and
ministers insist that the situation has improved since, but copies of the London
evacuation plan dated March make clear that fundamental problems have still to
be solved.

Planners who have contacted the Sunday Express say the pace of contingency
planning is dangerously slow.

Shadow Home Secretary David Davis said: "It is a disgrace and a scandal that
three years after 9/11 the Government is still not providing an adequate level
of response, even by its own standards, to terrorist attack either in London or
outside.

"When both the head of the Metropolitan Police and the head of MI5 make it clear
that an attempt to carry out a devastating attack on British soil is almost
inevitable, this failure is totally inexplicable.

"If ministers had put as much focus and effort into resolving these problems as
they have into covering them up, the British public would be able to feel more
confident that they enjoy a decent level of safety and security.

"The Sunday Express has been proven right time and time again in its
public-spirited campaign to provide the British people with the information it
deserves about our ability to cope.

"The chaos and confusion that this new information exposes demonstrates yet
again the case for a single minister who can focus on nothing but the maximum
possible protection of the public."

The Government has continued to resist suggestions put forward by the Opposition
that they put one minister in sole charge of homeland security.

During a ministerial reshuffle earlier this year different departments were so
confused about who is in charge that they named different ministers.

Civil contingencies planning is still divided between Mr Prescott's Office of
the Deputy Prime Minister, the Cabinet Office and the Home Office.

Responding to the new revelations, a Cabinet Office spokesman said: "In 2003, we
undertook an exercise with Government departments and regional offices to assess
resilience against a wide range of risks in the English regions. The results of
that review have informed work over the past year.

"It would be wrong to comment on the results of that assessment. Doing so could
provide information useful to those who wish to damage UK interests."

But a former head of the Cabinet Office's Civil Contingencies Secretariat, Mike
Granatt, warned: "If these shortfalls are occurring in major urban areas where
the density of population means a major incident could cause mass casualties
that would be very disturbing.

"We should be looking, in the next few years, at a very much better set of
results than we have here."

Half of UK's cities have no escape plan Hospitals not ready to deal with mass
casualties 999 services still not properly trained Only one million people could
hope to be evacuated from London Military experts would take 24 hours to arrive
BBC story backs our report

LOAD-DATE: September 27, 2004

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Newspaper

                       Copyright 2004 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS

                              171 of 301 DOCUMENTS

                  UK Newsquest Regional Press - This is Dorset

                               September 27, 2004

Firefighters equipped with terror attack unit

BYLINE: Jenna Weekes (jenna.weekes@bournemouthecho.co.uk)

LENGTH: 319 words

DATELINE: Dorset


DORSET is geared up to respond to major incidents such as a chemical spillage or
terrorist attack thanks to a special unit at Blandford Fire Station.

The Incident Response Unit has the capability of providing hot and cold showers
for around 400 people to wash off chemical substances and is a mobile facility
which can be set up at emergencies.

And chiefs at the fire service say they hope they never have cause to use it.

Simon Tattersall an assistant planner for Dorset Fire and Rescue said: "The
appliance was brought in so that we are able to deal with incidents more
professionally."

He sited the world political climate and major incidents over past years such as
floods severe train crashes and spillages from tankers as factors influencing
the necessity of the new appliance but emphasised it's purely there as a
precaution.

He added: "Potentially it could save lives. It could be used at any incident -
particularly larger scale incidents where there are a number of people involved.

"It would have been really useful at an incident such as the severe flooding in
Boscastle Cornwall the other week as it would have provided an area for people
to warm up and wash off all the mud.

"We are proud to have the unit here. It is far better than what we had before
and can deal with incidents on a much larger scale."

The unit which cost around £150 000 is being stored in Blandford because of its
easy access to link roads in the county. It was funded by the Office of the
Deputy Prime Minister.

Divisional Officer Adrian Crook said: "It will prove invaluable if a chemical
tanker overturns near a school or if we have mudslides - even if the incident
isn't a contamination it will be useful just to get people clean and provide
them with some shelter."

The unit transforms into one giant shower unit or a number of more private
cubicles.

First published: September 22

LOAD-DATE: September 27, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: NEW: Station officer Steve Garbutt and his team familiarise themselves
with the response unit now based at Blandford;

                  Copyright 2004 NewsQuest Media Group Limited

                              172 of 301 DOCUMENTS

                            Daily Post (North Wales)

                          September 28, 2004, Tuesday

TERRORIST DIES OF HEART ATTACK

SECTION: NW Merseyside Edition; NEWS; Pg. 17

LENGTH: 65 words


THE alleged top al Qaida operative in Lebanon, who was captured last week in a
security operation that broke up a terrorist network, died of a heart attack
yesterday, hospital and security officials said.

Ismail Mohammed al Khatib was rushed from his prison cell to the Bahanes
Hospital, 20 miles north-east of Beirut but doctors were unable to save his
life, the hospital said.

LOAD-DATE: September 28, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Newspaper

               Copyright 2004 The Liverpool Daily Post & Echo Ltd

                              173 of 301 DOCUMENTS



                                   The Mirror

                          September 28, 2004, Tuesday

KEANE FAMILY TERROR;
 RACIST THUGS ATTACK ROY'S HOME WITH FIREWORKS

BYLINE: PAUL CLARKSON

SECTION: Eire Edition; NEWS; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 97 words

HIGHLIGHT: VICTIM: United skipper Roy


YOBS targeted Roy Keane's home in a terrifying racist attack, it emerged
yesterday.

They daubed anti-Irish abuse on a crate of fireworks and fired them just yards
from the Republic of Ireland star's mansion in Hale, Cheshire.

Police and fire brigade units were called to the scene minutes after the
chilling attack at 7.30am on Sunday.

Keane, who leads Manchester United against Fenerbahce in the Champions League
tonight, was at home with his wife Theresa and four children.

A police spokesman said: "Our enquiries into this incident are continuing."SEE
PAGE 15

LOAD-DATE: September 28, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                            Copyright 2004 MGN Ltd.

                              174 of 301 DOCUMENTS

                               Belfast Telegraph

                               September 29, 2004

TV chef's attacker is jailed;
 Connery's terror at hands of drunk burglars recalledConnery's terror at hands
of drunk burglars recalled

BYLINE: By Deborah McAleese

LENGTH: 609 words


A thug who terrorised celebrity chef Clare Connery during a horror burglary was
beginning a lengthy jail sentence today.

Christopher McKinney (21), from Dunmurry terrorised the TV cook for an hour as
he ransacked her home on the shores of Strangford Lough.

McKinney was one of two burglars who pulled Ms Connery from bed and dragged her
around her home at gunpoint before taking her car and credit cards on June 6,
2001.

Ms Connery now lives in Edinburgh, where she is caring for her daughter Clare
Taylor (28), who was critically injured in a collision with a stolen car near
the city in February 2002.

She was unavailable for comment this morning but a friend of the family, who did
not want to be named, said: "Clare is now just hoping to put that terrible
ordeal behind her and concentrate on spending time with her daughter."

McKinney, of Thornhill Crescent, Dunmurry, was sentenced to six years
imprisonment at Downpatrick Crown Court yesterday for his part in the burglary.

The court heard that a drunken McKinney and another man, who claimed to be armed
Continuity IRA men, threatened to shoot both Ms Connery and her partner, Bruce
Wright.

Mr Wright feigned a heart attack before fleeing the house to raise the alarm
while Ms Connery threw a vase at the thugs.

They then fled in Ms Connery's Volvo car before going on to terrorise two of her
neighbours before finally making off.

McKinney was convicted of robbery, burglary, hijacking, arson, unlawful and
malicious wounding, threat to kill and criminal damage.

He had also admitted burgling two other homes in the south Down area on April 7,
2000 when he was just 16.

The court heard how two intruders awoke Ms Connery and her partner at 4.30am in
their Shore Road, Strangford, home.

Crown counsel, David Russell, said the drunken duo, one of whom was McKinney,
threatened to shoot the couple if their demands for cash were not met. They also
separated the couple, dragged them around the house and forced them to hand over
bank cards and two watches.

When they fled, McKinney went on to subject two other Shore Road residents to
equally horrific ordeals. Counsel described how one hour later he broke into the
home of Michael and Jeanne Hughes and demanded their car.

The couple fled barefoot through a bathroom window as McKinney kicked the door
in.

He caught up with the couple and stabbed Mrs Hughes in the leg and threatened to
kill her.

He also pelted their windows with stones when the couple went back inside until
he got the keys to their Nissan Almera.

After crashing their car a short distance away McKinney then broke into a third
house on Shore Road at 6.00am where he demanded car keys from Trevor and Nicola
Johnston.

But as he made off in their Fiat his escape route was blocked by a police car
and an ambulance.

McKinney and another man ran off but he was recognised by police officers and
forensic tests also linked him to the scene.

Defence counsel, Eugene Grant QC, said McKinney felt "deep regret" for the
incident.

Judge Peter Gibson said McKinney's actions were of particular concern to the
court. However, he said he had been under the influence of older and hardened
criminals at the time.

Judge Gibson jailed him for six years, four to be spent in custody and two on
probation.

BT

Business - Our Best Value Ever

UK and Ireland calls just 10p for up to an hour, fixed to mobile calls

ust 30p for up to an hour - PLUS 10% cheaper line rental. To find

out how your business could be benefiting from BT's best value please

click

here. Terms and Conditions apply


LOAD-DATE: September 29, 2004

LANGUAGE: English

TYPE: Paper

                Copyright 2004 Belfast Telegraph Newspapers Ltd.

                              175 of 301 DOCUMENTS

                            Birmingham Evening Mail

                         September 29, 2004, Wednesday

999 HERO IN GUN TERROR;
 ATTACKS ON AMBULANCE CREWS RISE

BYLINE: JUSTINE HALIFAX

SECTION: C2 Edition; NEWS; Pg. 1,3

LENGTH: 302 words


A TERRIFIED paramedic had a Magnum handgun held to his head as he struggled to
treat a badly injured man in Birmingham city centre, it was revealed today.

In another incident an ambulanceman had a machete held to his throat by the
driver of a car involved in a crash.

These are just two examples of an escalating number of attacks on 999 staff and
ambulance bosses are predicting the situation will get worse. In 2003 there were
261 reports of violent abuse, but disturbing statistics for the first four
months of this year indicate that attacks will double to more than 400.

The first incident occurred when the paramedic was treating a man injured in a
brawl with the gunman in Birmingham's Broad Street. The gunman, armed with the
weapon made famous in Clint Eastwood's Dirty Harry movies, threatened the
paramedic before being overpowered. In a separate incident an ambulance
technician had a machete held against his throat by a man who was injured when
his car crashed into a central reservation in Hagley Road, Quinton. The
technician, a father-of-one from Walsall, managed to escape.

It later transpired the injured man was on his way to try and kill a police
officer and mistook the technician's unmarked car for a police vehicle.

Today West Midlands Ambulance Service spokeswoman Heather Clapton warned:'We are
not going to tolerate this any longer. This is an extremely serious situation.
It is not just verbal abuse, it is getting more and more violent.' Ambulance
chiefs are planning to launch a regional crackdown next month. Officers will
visit inner-city stations to get first-hand evidence of attacks to compile a
detailed dossier as it is feared many are not being reported.

Spokesman Steve Parry said: 'Where there is enough evidence attackers will be
prosecuted.'

LOAD-DATE: September 30, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

               Copyright 2004 Midland Independent Newspapers plc

                              176 of 301 DOCUMENTS



                                   The Mirror

                          September 30, 2004, Thursday

FLOATING TIMEBOMB;
 NUCLEAR SHIP SPARKS TERROR ATTACK FEARS THIS IS A POTENTIAL TARGET

BYLINE: KEVIN MCDONNELL AND NEIL COTTER

SECTION: Ulster Edition; NEWS; Pg. 6,7

LENGTH: 599 words

HIGHLIGHT: PROCEEDINGS(: Sellafield; DEADLY: Pacific Pintail will carry cargo of
radioactive plutonium; CONCERN: A nuclear protester; -SDLP MP EDDIE MCGRADY
YESTERDAY


A NORTHERN Ireland MP warned yesterday that convoys of ships carrying nuclear
waste could be targeted by international terrorists.

The SDLP's Eddie McGrady said it was disgraceful that a flotilla of British
vessels transporting a deadly cargo of radioactive plutonium to France from the
United States will pass within 80 miles of the Irish coast today.

The South Down politician said: "Sadly previous incidents have proven that
groups such as al-Qaeda are prepared to kill on a mass scale.

"These type of ships would in my opinion be a potential target. The government
has to take the concerns of people living in Northern Ireland into account.

"At the moment it is not giving the matter any meaningful attention and this
angers me.

"I am calling on a total ban on these convoys coming anywhere near the Irish
coast.

"We have to do something now before a disaster occurs either through an accident
or a terrorist strike."

If damaged, the ships, dubbed the "Floating Bombs" could spark a radioactive
fallout in Ireland within hours and put millions of lives at serious risk.

British Nuclear Fuels ships are carrying the radioactive plutonium from America
to France where the weapons grade substance will be converted into MOX fuel.

The batch of radioactive cargo was taken from the warheads of US strategic
missiles as part of a joint US/Russia disarmament treaty.

Two years ago the same ships, led by the Pacific Pintail, transported defective
Japanese nuclear fuel through Irish waters- but this is the first time deadly
plutonium weapons have been transported by sea.

Environmentalists Greenpeace called on the Irish Government to directly confront
the ships, which will pass within 80 miles of Cork.

A spokesman said: "We are calling for the deployment of coastal vessels to
ensure that these ships do not enter Irish waters."

Meanwhile Sinn Fein's spokesman on the environment Willie Clarke said Irish
waters had become a nuclear corridor effectively putting the lives of millions
of people at risk.

The MLA added: "It is only a few weeks since the European Commission initiated
legal proceedings against Britain for their failure to comply with strict EU
rules on nuclear waste at Sellafield.

"Yet the British Government continues to put profit ahead of safety."

In the Republic, Green Party leader Trevor Sargent raged: "The dangers this
nuclear flotilla poses to Ireland should not be underestimated.

"Such toxic and nuclear cargoes have previously entered Irish waters despite the
Irish people's demands that nuclear cargoes be kept out of Irish limits.

"The Government claims it has been assured no nuclear vessels will come into
Irish waters but that is simply not good enough.

"The very people who can make 100 per cent sure these ships won't pass through
are instead happy to adopt this hear no evil, see no evil, speak no evil
approach.

"Irish people should be very much on the alert and the Government has to become
more active in ending the nuclear threat.

"With the nuclear industry struggling to stay in the black, this problem is only
going to get worse."

Sinn Fein MEP Mary Lou McDonald called on Taoiseach Bertie Ahern to protect the
lives of Irish people by ensuring future voyages stay clear.

She blasted: "Irish waters have become a nuclear corridor effectively putting
the lives of millions of people at risk.

"It is only a few weeks since the European Commission initiated legal
proceedings against Britain for their failure to comply with strict EU rules on
nuclear waste at Sellafield."

LOAD-DATE: September 30, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                            Copyright 2004 MGN Ltd.

                              177 of 301 DOCUMENTS



                             Nordic Business Report

                                October 1, 2004

Norway named as terror attack target

LENGTH: 95 words


NORDIC BUSINESS REPORT-1 October 2004-Norway named as terror attack target
©1998-2004 M2 COMMUNICATIONS LTD http://www.m2.com

Norway has been named by a senior al-Qaeda official as a potential target for
terrorist attacks.

An audio tape broadcast by Al-Jazeera television on Friday (1 October), said to
be by Osama bin Laden's deputy Ayman al-Zawahri, called for attacks on US and
British interests everywhere, and also listed Norway, Australia, France, Poland,
South Korea and Japan as targets.

(Comments on this story may be sent to nbr.feedback@nordicbusinessreport.com)

LOAD-DATE: October 1, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newsletter


                     Copyright  2004 M2 Communications Ltd
                              All rights reserved

                              178 of 301 DOCUMENTS

                              Gloucestershire Echo

                                October 2, 2004

Anti-terror attack equipment arrives

SECTION: News; Other; Others; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 433 words


Fire chiefs say the town was chosen as a base for the gear because it is
strategically placed to respond to both national and county emergencies.  The
equipment, designed "for the mass decontamination of large numbers of people",
is kept on palettes in a lorry at the town's fire station.

Setting up bases across the country is a direct response to the increasing
threat of global terrorism following devastating attacks on the World Trade
Center in New York, a Bali nightclub and a train in Madrid.

Fire service officials were unwilling to be drawn on what kind of equipment was
being stockpiled in Cirencester.

But it is likely to include protective clothing, breathing masks, blow-up
showers and equipment and chemicals to hose down contaminated victims.

Chris Griffin, the county's assistant chief fire officer, said: "It's a national
response to what's happened before and post-9/11.

"The equipment is based in Cirencester because it has good road links to
Bristol, London, Birmingham and Oxford as well our own county.

"A number of firefighters across Gloucestershire have been trained in the use of
the equipment, not just staff in Cirencester." Firefighters were trained at the
Fire Service College in Moreton-in-Marsh.

Mr Griffin added: "The idea is that it's coordinated in West Yorkshire and it's
part of a national programme.

"It may be that it's never used in Gloucestershire and it's used elsewhere as
part of a resilience programme for all our citizens.

"The equipment is strategically placed in terms of the best response for the
nation and the county." However, Cirencester fire station, in Bristol Road, does
not have an appliance bay large enough to house the extra equipment.

So the fire service has submitted a planning application to Gloucestershire
County Council to extend the number of bays at the station from three to four.

The authority is still considering the application although consultee Cotswold
District Council has raised no objections to the scheme.

A statement accompanying the planning application says a new appliance bay is
required in Cirencester to house a new "incident response unit".

It says the unit is a "specialist vehicle required to assist in any national
emergency as identified in a national scheme initiated and funded by the Office
of the Deputy Prime Minister".

It adds: "The vehicle is already located at Cirencester and secure accommodation
for this key asset is required as soon as possible".

A total of 28 firefighters, including retained staff, are based in Cirencester.


LOAD-DATE: October 3, 2004

LANGUAGE: English

                      Copyright 2004 Gloucestershire Echo

                              179 of 301 DOCUMENTS

                                  The Observer

                                October 3, 2004

Guantanamo has 'failed to prevent terror attacks'

BYLINE: by Martin Bright, Home Affairs Editor

SECTION: Observer News Pages, Pg. 1

LENGTH: 852 words


PRISONER interrogations at Guantanamo Bay, the controversial US military
detention centre where guards have been accused of brutality and torture, have
not prevented a single terrorist attack, according to a senior Pentagon
intelligence officer who worked at the heart of the US

war on terror.

Lieutenant Colonel Anthony Christino, who retired last June after 20 years in
military intelligence, says that President George W Bush and US Defence
Secretary Donald Rumsfeld have 'wildly exaggerated' their intelligence value.

Christino's revelations, to be published this week in Guantanamo: America's War
on Human Rights , by British journalist David Rose, are supported by three
further intelligence officials. Christino also disclosed that the 'screening'
process in Afghanistan which determined whether detainees were sent to
Guantanamo was 'hopelessly flawed from the get-go'.

It was performed by new recruits who had almost no training, and were forced to
rely on incompetent interpreters. They were 'far too poorly trained to identify
real terrorists from the ordinary Taliban militia'.

According to Christino, most of the approximately 600 detainees at Guantanamo -
including four Britons - at worst had supported the Taliban in the civil war it
had been fighting against the Northern Alliance before the 11 September attacks,
but had had no contact with Osama bin Laden or al-Qaeda.

For six months in the middle of 2003 until his retirement, Christino had regular
access to material derived from Guantanamo prisoner interrogations, serving as
senior watch officer for the central Pentagon unit known as the Joint
Intelligence Task Force-Combating Terrorism (JITF-CT). This made him responsible
for every piece of information that went in or out of the unit, including what
he describes as 'analysis of critical, time-sensitive intelligence'.

In his previous assignment in Germany, one of his roles had been to co-ordinate
intelligence support to the US army in Afghanistan, at Guantanamo, and to units
responsible for transporting prisoners there.

Bush, Rumsfeld and Major General Geoffrey Miller, Guantanamo's former commandant
who is now in charge of Abu Ghraib prison in Iraq, have repeatedly claimed that
Guantanamo interrogations have provided 'enormously valuable intelligence,'
thanks to a system of punishments, physical and mental abuse and rewards for for
co-operation, introduced by Miller and approved by Rumsfeld.

In a speech in Miami, Rumsfeld claimed: 'Detaining enemy combatants. . . can
help us prevent future acts of terrorism. It can save lives and I am convinced
it can speed victory.'

However, Christino says, General Miller had never worked in intelligence before
being assigned to Guantanamo, and his system seems almost calculated to produce
entirely bogus confessions.

Earlier this year, three British released detainees, Asif Iqbal, Shafiq Rasul
Rhuhel Ahmed, revealed that they had all confessed to meeting bin Laden and
Mohamed Atta, leader of the 11 September hijackers, at a camp in Afghanistan in
2000. All had cracked after three months isolated in solitary confinement and
interrogation sessions in chains that lasted up to 12 hours daily.

Eventually, MI5 proved what they had said initially - that none had left the UK
that year. Rasul had been working at a branch of Currys. The disclosures come on
the eve of a House of Lords appeal on the fate of the foreign terrorist suspects
held without trial in British prisons.

Tomorrow, the Lords will determine whether it was lawful for the government to
opt out of the European Convention on Human Rights to allow for the detention of
the men at Belmarsh and Woodhill prisons. It is widely believed that some of the
men are held on evidence obtained from prisoners at Guantanamo. An officer from
MI5 admitted under cross-examination by lawyers acting for the detainees that
the British intelligence services would make use of information obtained under
torture by foreign governments.

A high court appeal in August found that it was lawful for the British
government to use information obtained under torture by foreign governments to
avert an imminent attack, but there was no evidence that it had done so in the
case of the detainees held in British jails.

Speaking at an Observer fringe meeting at the Labour party conference last week,
Lord Chancellor Charlie Falconer backed the decision of the court but said it
was 'an almost impossible ethical question'.

While emphasising that Britain repudiated the use of torture he said: 'We cannot
condone torture, but the basis of those incarcerations is protection of other
people. If we thought that 'X' was going to blow up the Tube and we thought that
information was obtained by a foreign intelligence service, can we really say
that we can't detain people because that information was obtained by torture?

'That's the dilemma the government is faced with. The courts have taken the view
as a matter of law, that we are entitled to rely on it and I have the awful
feeling that is probably the right conclusion.'


LOAD-DATE: October 15, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

                       © 2004 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              180 of 301 DOCUMENTS



                          Airline Industry Information

                                October 4, 2004

South Korean airports on alert for terror attacks

LENGTH: 118 words


AIRLINE INDUSTRY INFORMATION-©1997-2004 M2 COMMUNICATIONS LTD

South Korean airports and sea ports have been put on maximum alert after the
country was named as a possible target for terrorist attacks.

A new audio tape attributed to al-Qaeda deputy leader Ayman al-Zawahri has
called for attacks on the United States and several of its allies, including
South Korea.

Airport and maritime authorities have now been ordered to tighten immigration
checks to prevent possible terrorists from entering the country.

Any sign that travel documents may be forged is automatically associated with
the possibility of terror, according to a justice ministry official.

(Comments on this story may be sent to aii.feedback@m2.com)

LOAD-DATE: October 4, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newsletter


                     Copyright  2004 M2 Communications Ltd
                              All rights reserved

                              181 of 301 DOCUMENTS

                            Birmingham Evening Mail

                            October 4, 2004, Monday

SEX ATTACK TERROR FOR LONE WOMAN

SECTION: First Edition; NEWS; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 131 words


A SEX attacker terrorised a Midland woman as she walked home from a night out.

Detectives appealed for help in tracing the 'rugged' looking man involved in the
incident at Burntwood at around 2.20am yesterday.

They said a woman in her early 30s was walking home along Burntwood Road, Chase
Terrace, when she was attacked from behind.

She was dragged on to a grassed area where she she suffered a serious sexual
assault. The attacker then made off towards Norton Canes, near Cannock. 'Passers
by found the victim in a distressed state,' a Staffordshire Police spokesman
said.

They said the attacker, a white man in his late 30s or early 40s, may have been
scratched as the woman tried to fight him off.

Anyone with information should call police on 01785 234953.

LOAD-DATE: October 5, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

               Copyright 2004 Midland Independent Newspapers plc

                              182 of 301 DOCUMENTS



                                  M2 Presswire

                                October 4, 2004

UN: Secretary-General condemns `in strongest terms' terrorist attack on mosque
in Pakistan

LENGTH: 160 words


M2 PRESSWIRE-OCTOBER 4, 2004-UN: Secretary-General condemns `in strongest terms'
terrorist attack on mosque in Pakistan ©1994-2004 M2 COMMUNICATIONS LTD

The following statement was issued today by the Spokesman for Secretary-General
Kofi Annan:

The Secretary-General has learned with dismay and abhorrence the reports of a
terrorist attack on a mosque in the town of Sialkot in Pakistan during Friday
prayers today, which has killed and injured a large number of worshipers. No
cause or motive can justify attacks on places of worship and innocent civilians.
The Secretary-General condemns this cowardly act in the strongest terms. He also
calls for calm and restraint in the wake of the dastardly act.

(M2 Communications Ltd disclaims all liability for information provided within
M2 PressWIRE. Data supplied by named party/parties. Further information on M2
PressWIRE can be obtained at http://www.presswire.net on the world wide web.
Inquiries to info@m2.com).

LOAD-DATE: October 4, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSWIRE


                     Copyright  2004 Normans Media Limited
                              All rights reserved

                              183 of 301 DOCUMENTS



                                  M2 Presswire

                                October 4, 2004

UN: Secretary-General strongly condemns terrorist attacks in India

LENGTH: 158 words


M2 PRESSWIRE-OCTOBER 4, 2004-UN: Secretary-General strongly condemns terrorist
attacks in India ©1994-2004 M2 COMMUNICATIONS LTD

The following statement was issued on 2 October by the Spokesman for
Secretary-General Kofi Annan:

The Secretary-General has learned with shock and dismay the news of bomb and
gunfire attacks that took place today in crowded public places in Nagaland and
Assam states, India, which have claimed the lives of a large number of people.

The Secretary-General strongly condemns these terrorist attacks. No cause or
grievance can justify such senseless and cruel acts that target innocent
civilians. He expresses his sincere condolences to the victims and their
families.

(M2 Communications Ltd disclaims all liability for information provided within
M2 PressWIRE. Data supplied by named party/parties. Further information on M2
PressWIRE can be obtained at http://www.presswire.net on the world wide web.
Inquiries to info@m2.com).

LOAD-DATE: October 4, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSWIRE


                     Copyright  2004 Normans Media Limited
                              All rights reserved

                              184 of 301 DOCUMENTS

                UK Newsquest Regional Press - This is Lancashire

                                October 4, 2004

Text message for terrorist attack

LENGTH: 552 words


A SIMPLE text message will alert people to evacuate Bolton town centre if it is
hit by a terrorist attack.

But the plan -- which comes in the wake of a report by the Government in which
it admitted four out of 10 local authorities were not prepared for a major
incident -- relies on shops and businesses signing up to the scheme.

Shops and businesses across the town will receive the alerts from a central
messaging service and they in turn will notify their staff and customers.

It is hoped the police-led City Alert Texting System which shops and businesses
have to subscribe to for a fee will be up and running by Christmas --
traditionally a time of heightened security.

Bolton's evacuation plan the first devised for the town since the Second World
War will break the town down into smaller zones which can be evacuated quickly
and separately without other areas becoming affected.

For example if a suspicious package was discovered in Churchgate the authorities
say the far side of the shopping centre could remain open.

The plans are being put together by Bolton Emergency Response Group Forum a
multi agency group including Bolton Council the police fire ambulance primary
care trusts Community Safety Teams and Bolton Town Centre Company which meets
every three months.

The forum is led by Bolton Council which has a statutory obligation to make sure
that emergency procedures are in place.

News of Bolton's plan comes just over a week since the Government admitted four
out of 10 councils would not be able to cope with evacuations of more than 1 000
homes. In a survey it carried out in October 2003 into preparedness around the
UK it found that 77 per cent of local authorities and 70pc of police forces have
no plans for dealing with people contaminated by chemical attack.

The Government now says the UK has a well-developed structure for emergency
planning across the country.

Cathy Savage of the Bolton Town Centre Company said the scheme was still in the
early stages.

"A lot of work is being done in the background and we will be approaching
businesses shortly with the details she said. It is an important initiative for
the protection of everyone in Bolton."

In the event of serious incident in Bolton individual mobile phone users will be
contacted by the central messaging service most likely operated by the local
authority.

As well as more serious emergencies such as a terrorist or chemical attack the
message could also be used to warn the public about more local problems such as
flooding or road closures due to accidents.

Emergency planning officer for Bolton Council Barbara Mockridge said: "We have
an obligation to make sure that such emergency plans are in place.

"We also have to make sure we test them regularly. We need as many shops and
businesses as possible to get involved."

Chief Insp Patrick McKelvey who is chairman of the multi agency Bolton Town Safe
Partnership Group said: "We are using the latest technology to increase the
safety of the people in Bolton town centre in the light of the current events
going on in the world.

"No specific threats have been made and we already have procedures in place but
the new system will make sure there is a co-ordinated response in place."

LOAD-DATE: October 4, 2004

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: News

                  Copyright 2004 NewsQuest Media Group Limited

                              185 of 301 DOCUMENTS

                           Coventry Evening Telegraph

                            October 5, 2004, Tuesday

GANG ATTACK PAIR IN STREET TERROR;
 COUSINS WALKING HOME LEFT UNCONSCIOUS AFTER BEATING

BYLINE: BY BEN GRIFFIN CRIME REPORTER BEN.GRIFFIN@MRN.CO.UK

SECTION: First Edition; NEWS; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 234 words


COUSINS who were walking home from a night out were beaten unconscious by a gang
of six men.

The pair were set upon in Bedworth Road, Longford, Coventry, as they made their
way home after an evening in the pub.

PC Jennie Salter, of Stoney Stanton Road police, said the men, aged 18 and 22,
were kicked and punched to the ground in an unprovoked attack, which lasted
about a minute.

She said: "One of them can't remember anything. It appears they were randomly
attacked. They have been jumped on and kicked to the ground."

One of the victims suffered a deep graze to the centre of his forehead, minor
bleeding, a stiff neck and swelling, while his cousin suffered a swollen hand
and a lump to the side of his head.

Nothing was stolen from the men during the incident.

Both men were knocked unconscious in the attack, between 8.50pm and 9pm on
Friday September 24, and were treated at Coventry and Warwickshire Hospital.
They have since been discharged.

PC Salter, who is based in Bell Green, said police wanted to speak to two people
who they believe were at the scene at the time of the attack and tried to help
the victims.

She added the six attackers were described as Asian, and two of them were
wearing turbans.

Anyone with any information is asked to contact police at Stoney Stanton Road on
0845 113 5000 or the anonymous Crimestoppers hotline on 0800 555 111.

LOAD-DATE: October 5, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

                   Copyright 2004 Coventry Newspapers Limited

                              186 of 301 DOCUMENTS

                           Coventry Evening Telegraph

                            October 5, 2004, Tuesday

GANG ATTACK PAIR IN STREET TERROR;
 COUSINS WALKING HOME LEFT UNCONSCIOUS AFTER BEATING

BYLINE: BY BEN GRIFFIN CRIME REPORTER BEN.GRIFFIN@MRN.CO.UK

SECTION: First Edition; NEWS; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 234 words


COUSINS who were walking home from a night out were beaten unconscious by a gang
of six men.

The pair were set upon in Bedworth Road, Longford, Coventry, as they made their
way home after an evening in the pub.

PC Jennie Salter, of Stoney Stanton Road police, said the men, aged 18 and 22,
were kicked and punched to the ground in an unprovoked attack, which lasted
about a minute.

She said: "One of them can't remember anything. It appears they were randomly
attacked. They have been jumped on and kicked to the ground."

One of the victims suffered a deep graze to the centre of his forehead, minor
bleeding, a stiff neck and swelling, while his cousin suffered a swollen hand
and a lump to the side of his head.

Nothing was stolen from the men during the incident.

Both men were knocked unconscious in the attack, between 8.50pm and 9pm on
Friday September 24, and were treated at Coventry and Warwickshire Hospital.
They have since been discharged.

PC Salter, who is based in Bell Green, said police wanted to speak to two people
who they believe were at the scene at the time of the attack and tried to help
the victims.

She added the six attackers were described as Asian, and two of them were
wearing turbans.

Anyone with any information is asked to contact police at Stoney Stanton Road on
0845 113 5000 or the anonymous Crimestoppers hotline on 0800 555 111.

LOAD-DATE: May 3, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

                   Copyright 2004 Coventry Newspapers Limited

                              187 of 301 DOCUMENTS

                             The Gloucester Citizen

                                October 5, 2004

Town hosts anti-terror attack gear

SECTION: News; 999; Autocrime; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 439 words


Fire chiefs say Cirencester was chosen as the best spot for keeping the gear
because it is strategically placed to respond to both national and county
emergencies.  The equipment, designed "for the mass decontamination of large
numbers of people", is kept on pallets in a lorry at the town's fire station.

Setting up bases across the country is a direct response to the increasing
threat of global terrorism following devastating attacks on the World Trade
Centre in New York, a Bali nightclub and a train in Madrid's Atocha station.

Fire service officials were unwilling to be drawn on what kind of equipment was
being stockpiled in Cirencester.

But it is likely to include protective clothing, breathing masks, inflatable
showers and equipment and chemicals to hose down contaminated victims.

Chris Griffin, the county's assistant chief fire officer, said: "It's a national
response to what's happened before and post-9/11.

"The equipment is based in Cirencester because it has good road links to
Bristol, London, Birmingham and Oxford as well our own county.

"A number of firefighters across Gloucestershire have been trained in the use of
the equipment, not just staff in Cirencester." Firefighters were trained at the
Fire Service College in Moreton-in-Marsh.

Mr Griffin added: "The idea is that it's co-ordinated in West Yorkshire and it's
part of a national programme.

"It may be that it's never used in Gloucestershire and it's used elsewhere as
part of a resilience programme for all our citizens.

"The equipment is strategically placed in terms of the best response for the
nation and the county." However, Cirencester fire station, in Bristol Road, does
not have an appliance bay large enough to house the extra equipment.

So the fire service has submitted a planning application to Gloucestershire
County Council to extend the number of bays at the station from three to four.
The authority is still considering the application although consultee Cotswold
District Council has raised no objections to the scheme.

A statement accompanying the planning application says a new appliance bay is
required in Cirencester to house a new "incident response unit".

It says the unit is a "specialist vehicle required to assist in any national
emergency as identified in a national scheme initiated and funded by the Office
of the Deputy Prime Minister".

It adds: "The vehicle is already located at Cirencester and secure accommodation
for this key asset is required as soon as possible".

A total of 28 firefighters, including retained staff, are based in Cirencester.


LOAD-DATE: October 6, 2004

LANGUAGE: English

                     Copyright 2004 The Gloucester Citizen

                              188 of 301 DOCUMENTS

                                  Morning Star

                                October 06, 2004

Terrorism on request;
 INFOCUS: JASON PARKINSON reports on '60s US plans to fake terrorism to justify
an attack on Cuba.

BYLINE: JASON PARKINSON

SECTION:  Pg. 9

LENGTH: 916 words


LAST week, a United States document, Operation Iraqi Freedom :Strategic Lessons
Learned, was leaked.The papersaid that US and British military officials planned
to invade Iraq as early as April 2002.

The WMD evidence, which is now known to be false, could have easily been
contrived - a marketing gimmick to bolster public backing for the war.

Rebuilding America's Defences, the 1998 defence document by the Project for the
New American Century, called for pre-emptive strikes against the "axis of evil"
countries.

It clearly stated that it needed a catastrophic event, "a new Pearl Harbour, "
to gain US public backing for the "US global leadership" plan.

In these days of the war on terror, just how far will the US go to start a war?
If recently declassified documents are anything to go by, the answer is clear.

These documents prove that US military and intelligence officials planned to
fake terrorist attacks to justify a war with Cuba seven months before the Cuban
missile crisis.

Obtained from the George Washington University, JCS 1969/321 was authorised by
the Joint Chiefs of Staff on March 13 1962 and signed by JCS chairman General
Lyman L Lemnitzer.

Operation Northwoods stated: "It is possible to create an incident which will
demonstrate convincingly that a Cuban aircraft has attacked and shot down a
chartered civil airliner enroute from the United States to Jamaica, Guatemala,
Panama or Venezuela.

"An aircraft at Elgin AFB (air-force base) would be painted and numbered as an
exact duplicate for a civil registered aircraft belonging to a CIAproprietary
organisation in the Miami area.

"At a designated time, the duplicate would be substituted for the actual
aircraft and would be loaded with selected passengers, all boarded under
carefully prepared aliases. The actual reg - istered aircraft would be converted
to a drone."

At a specific rendezvous point, named as the south of Florida, the aircraft
containing the passengers would descend to a minimum altitude and fly directly
to an auxiliary airfield at Elgin air force base where "arrangements will be
made to evacuate the passengers and return the aircraft to its original status."

The duplicate drone plane would continue to fly along the designated flight
path, broadcasting a distress signal on the international distress fre - quency,
so that the Mayday could be picked up by the International Civil Aviation
Organisation radio stations in the western hemisphere.

This would aid the validity rather than, as the document states, the US trying
to "sell the incident."

Once the Mayday transmission was activated the drone plane would then be blown
up, triggered by a radio signal.

Operation Northwoods also planned to fake a Cuban MIG strike on an US military
aircraft over international waters.

Four or five F-101 aircraft would be dispatched to 12 miles off the Cuban coast
carrying live ammunition, in case of a real attack.

One of the aircraft, a pre-briefed pilot, would report that he had "been jumped
by MIGs and was going down."

The pilot would then fly at "extremely low altitude" and land at an auxiliary
base at Elgin. A submarine would surface and distribute wreckage in the area to
validate the story. The return - ing fellow pilots would have no knowledge of
the plot and enforce the incident further .

The Northwoods plan was to be built up over several months, with other actions
instigated to increase US-Cuban tensions, formulating an international image of
the Cuban government as "rash and irresponsible."

This would help form a solid world opinion and create a favourable United
Nations forum to justify US military intervention.

These "incidents, " most of which would have occurred at the US Guantanamo
military base, included proposals to land friendly Cubans "over the fence" to
fake an attack, start riots outside the base, blow up ammunition and aircraft,
real mortar bomb attacks, blow up and sink a US ship in Guantanamo Bay and
conduct funerals for mock victims.

Other plans included staging simulated Cuban terror campaigns on US soil and the
"real or simulated" sinking of Cuban refugee boats.

The fear of Soviet intervention was dismissed in the document because "there is
as yet no bilateral mutual support agreement binding the USSR to the defence of
Cuba, Cuba has not yet become a member of the Warsaw Pact, nor have the Soviets
established Soviet bases in Cuba in the pattern of US bases in western Europe."

Project Northwoods, Justification for US Military Intervention in Cuba, was
requested on March 5 1962 by US General William Craig, the Pentagon
representative for Operation Mongoose - a CIA-backed "psy-op" mission devised in
1961 to assassinate President Fidel Castro and disrupt and undermine the Cuban
government.

The plan was submitted by MJ Ingelido and FJ Blouin of the Joint Secretariat and
was passed on March 13 1962.

Listed as a "memorandum for the secretary of defence, " it was specifically
stated that the paper not be submitted to "commanders of unified or specified
commands."

Nor was it to be seen by US officers assigned to NATO duties or the US
delegation of the United Nations military staff committee.

Project Northwoods was passed on to President Kennedy's Defence Secretary Robert
McNamara less than a year after the Bay of Pigs incident in April 1961.

The plans were finally rejected by the civilian leadership and remained
undisclosed for 40 years.

LOAD-DATE: October 12, 2004

               Copyright 2004 People's Press Printing Society Ltd

                              189 of 301 DOCUMENTS

                            Birmingham Evening Mail

                           October 7, 2004, Thursday

LOG ON TO INTERNET TO FIGHT TERROR ATTACKS

SECTION: First Edition; NEWS; Pg. 71

LENGTH: 222 words


SPECIAL Branch officers in the Midlands are seeking more help from the public in
their fight against terrorism. They have set up a new website -
www.westmidlands. police.uk/ports unit - for anyone spotting anything suspicious
to let the police know.

The officers, based at Birmingham International Airport, say the site also
enables people flying light aircraft or helicopters in and out of the region to
make sure they are up-to-date with their responsibilities under the Terrorism
Act 2000.

As well as Birmingham Airport, the Special Branch airport unit handles 10
helicopter sites and manages more than 2,400 general aviation flights in and out
of the region each year.

The website outlines the responsibility of each pilot/owner in terms of
reporting their arrival and departure, as well as offering advice and guidance
for people to be vigilant while using airports and helicopter sites throughout
the UK. Det Chief Insp Liam O'Brien, head of Special Branch in the West
Midlands, said: 'We are keen to give the general public as many opportunities as
possible to assist in the campaign against terrorism in the West Midlands.

'This website gives everyone the opportunity to let the police know of any
suspicious activity whether they are on a general aviation flight or at one of
our helicopter sites.'

LOAD-DATE: October 8, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

               Copyright 2004 Midland Independent Newspapers plc

                              190 of 301 DOCUMENTS

                               Belfast Telegraph

                                October 8, 2004

Catholic police officers facing attacks;
 Dissident republicans suspected of planning terror outrageDissident republicans
suspected of planning terror outrage

BYLINE: By Jonathan McCambridge and Nevin Farrell

LENGTH: 380 words


Dissident republicans are planning to attack Catholic police officers living in
the north end of Ballymena, it emerged today.

Security force patrols have been stepped up in the Co Antrim town in response to
intelligence that an attack is imminent.

Tactical Support Groups have been drafted into the town and there have been
increased helicopter patrols as the threat level has been upgraded to Code Red.

A security source said: "Police officers' families thought they had seen the end
of this but families were very frightened in recent nights."

Similar threats against Catholic police officers in Ballymena over a year ago
resulted in some officers moving out of areas in the north end of the town.

A police spokeswoman said: "Police in Ballymena are concerned about recent
suspicious activity and believe terrorists intend to attack members of the
security forces in the Ballymena area.

"The threat is believed to come from dissident republicans. As a result police
have mounted, and will continue to mount, operations in an effort to frustrate
that threat."

The spokeswoman said police in the area have apologised for any inconvenience to
the public caused by an increase in security activity.

North Antrim DUP Assembly member Ian Paisley Jr said: "I am aware that the
threat is principally aimed against Army and police personnel. However, there is
no room for complacency and I welcome the police increasing their activities in
order to protect people and property from attack.

"The level of activity from the threat means that terrorists could be thrown off
course and could target a secondary target outside the town therefore vigilance
from the public is required.

"I have spoken with the police tonight and have been given a full briefing on
the matter.

"I am disgusted that republicans would target this area. Clearly their dirty
sectarian war against largely Protestant towns and parts of the province has not
ended."

BT

Business - Our Best Value Ever

UK and Ireland calls just 10p for up to an hour, fixed to mobile calls

ust 30p for up to an hour - PLUS 10% cheaper line rental. To find

out how your business could be benefiting from BT's best value please

click

here. Terms and Conditions apply


LOAD-DATE: October 8, 2004

LANGUAGE: English

TYPE: Paper

                Copyright 2004 Belfast Telegraph Newspapers Ltd.

                              191 of 301 DOCUMENTS

                               Belfast Telegraph

                                October 8, 2004

Dozens of Israeli tourists killed in bomb attacks on Red Sea resorts;
  Terrorists target hotel guests in Egypt to celebrate Jewish holidayTerrorists
target hotel guests in Egypt to celebrate Jewish holiday

BYLINE: By Donald Macintyre in Gaza

LENGTH: 865 words


An explosion ripped through the Hilton hotel in Taba, an Egyptian resort packed
with Israeli tourists, last night in the worst of three blasts which hospital
officials said claimed the lives of at least 29 people.

Today an Israeli army general said that at least 19 people were killed and 38
were missing.

The explosion in Taba, only yards from the Israeli-Egyptian border, raised
immediate fears that at least one suicide bomber had struck at Israelis who had
flocked to the Sinai peninsula and were enjoying the close of the week-long
Sukkot Jewish holiday, which finished last night.

With reports putting the wounded at up to 100, including at least two British
tourists, the most lethal of which reportedly trapped guests under the ruins of
a collapsed wall on the western side of the Taba Hilton, Israeli rescue workers
allowed across the border said helicopters and ambulances had evacuated 39
injured, including five in a serious condition.

It was the same hotel that was the scene of failed Israeli-Palestinian peace
talks in January 2001. The bombings prompted the Israeli foreign ministry to
announce that Israel was preparing to evacuate 12,000 to 15,000 Israelis on the
Sinai peninsula.

Making a bloody exodus from Egypt, dozens of Israelis wounded in one of the
explosions streamed through a floodlit Sinai border crossing to hospital in the
nearby Israeli resort of Eilat.

"The gates of Hell suddenly opened," an Israeli doctor, a guest at the shattered
Taba Hilton hotel on the Red Sea, told Israel's Channel One television.

An unconscious child and a young woman, her arm wrapped in a blood-soaked
bandage, were among those carried on stretchers into waiting ambulances for the
short ride to Eilat's Josephtal hospital.

Israeli security sources were quoted last night as saying there was a growing
conviction that the explosion was caused by a "terrorist attack" after the Taba
blast hit the hotel lobby, causing a ceiling to collapse and starting a fire
which hampered the evacuation of guests.

Meanwhile, Egyptian officials - while formally denying that there was yet
conclusive evidence of a deliberate attack - said that the Taba explosion had
occurred among combustible gas tanks in the kitchen of the hotel, which was
close to a casino crowded with tourists at the time of the blast. But the
Israeli newspaper Haaretz reported that the explosion had taken place in the
hotel lobby.

Although Egypt has seen several militant attacks aimed at tourists before, this
looked last night to be the first specifically aimed at Israeli visitors, who
had been explicitly warned last month against travel to the resorts of the Sinai
peninsula in Egypt, one of only two Arab countries with which Israel enjoys a
full treaty. Once again, however, Israeli tourists had flocked to the Sinai
during the Jewish holiday.

The other two, smaller, blasts occurred in Nuweiba, part of the area of Ras al
Shitan, a camping area also highly popular with Israeli tourists. A Ras al Sitan
human rights activist, Abdel Raziq, said: "I heard one very big explosion coming
from the Taba direction and then, after a while, I heard two smaller explosions
from Nuweiba."

In Taba, a witness to the Hilton explosion, Yigal Vakni, told Israel Radio: "The
whole front of the hotel has collapsed. There are dozens of people on the floor,
lots of blood. It is very tense. I am standing outside of the hotel, the whole
thing is burning and they have nothing to put it out with." He said most of the
people at the Hilton were Israeli. "I was in the casino when it happened," he
said. "There was a massive explosion, and the left wall came down. People
started to run around like crazy."

The official warning, issued on 9 September by the counter-terrorism centre in
the Israeli Prime Minister Ariel Sharon's office, identified Egypt's Sinai
peninsula as the likely target of a potential attack. "Recently a concrete
possibility has emerged that terrorists will try to attack tourist centres in
Egypt, especially the Sinai," the Israeli Foreign Ministry had said in a
statement published on its website.

Despite speculation that the militant Palestinian faction Hamas could be to
blame for last night's blasts, there was no immediate claim of responsibility.
Nor was there any indication whether the attack on the relatively soft target of
Israeli tourists in a neighbouring Arab country was in any way connected with
the nine-day incursion by Israeli forces into the northern Gaza strip. Israeli
forces entered the strip once again after two small children were killed by a
Palestinian Qassam rocket fired at the Israeli border town of Sderot last week.

Hamas officials in Gaza also declared after the assassination of one of its
senior official in Damascus last week that Israelis abroad would be vulnerable
to retaliatory attacks, though this threat was subsequently downplayed by
leaders of the faction in Syria.

Longwood Holidays, of Woodford Green, east London, had 19 British clients in the
Hilton Taba. Association of British Travel Agents spokeswoman Frances Tuke said:
"We understand that all 19 are out of the hotel and all are safe."


LOAD-DATE: October 8, 2004

LANGUAGE: English

TYPE: Paper

                Copyright 2004 Belfast Telegraph Newspapers Ltd.

                              192 of 301 DOCUMENTS

                            The Independent (London)

                            October 8, 2004, Friday

DOZENS OF ISRAELI TOURISTS KILLED IN BOMB ATTACKS ON RED SEA RESORTS;
  TERRORISTS TARGET HOTEL GUESTS IN EGYPT TO CELEBRATE JEWISH HOLIDAY

BYLINE: DONALD MACINTYRE IN GAZA A pregnant woman is wheeled into hospital in
the Israeli resort of Eilat, after the blast across the border Jo Kot

SECTION: Final Edition; TITLE PAGE; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 810 words


AN EXPLOSION ripped through the Hilton hotel in Taba, an Egyptian resort packed
with Israeli tourists, last night in the worst of three blasts which hospital
officials said claimed the lives of at least 29 people.

The explosion in Taba, only yards from the Israeli-Egyptian border, raised
immediate fears that at least one suicide bomber had struck at Israelis who had
flocked to the Sinai peninsula and were enjoying the close of the week-long
Sukkot Jewish holiday, which finished last night.

With reports putting the wounded at up to 100, including at least two British
tourists, the most lethal of which reportedly trapped guests under the ruins of
a collapsed wall on the western side of the Taba Hilton, Israeli rescue workers
allowed across the border said helicopters and ambulances had evacuated 39
injured, including five in a serious condition.

It was the same hotel that was the scene of failed Israeli-Palestinian peace
talks in January 2001. The bombings prompted the Israeli foreign ministry to
announce that Israel was preparing to evacuate 12,000 to 15,000 Israelis on the
Sinai peninsula.

Making a bloody exodus from Egypt, dozens of Israelis wounded in one of the
explosions streamed through a floodlit Sinai border crossing to hospital in the
nearby Israeli resort of Eilat.

"The gates of Hell suddenly opened," an Israeli doctor, a guest at the shattered
Taba Hilton hotel on the Red Sea, told Israel's Channel One television.

An unconscious child and a young woman, her arm wrapped in a blood-soaked
bandage, were among those carried on stretchers into waiting ambulances for the
short ride to Eilat's Josephtal hospital.

Israeli security sources were quoted last night as saying there was a growing
conviction that the explosion was caused by a "terrorist attack" after the Taba
blast hit the hotel lobby, causing a ceiling to collapse and starting a fire
which hampered the evacuation of guests.

Meanwhile, Egyptian officials - while formally denying that there was yet
conclusive evidence of a deliberate attack - said that the Taba explosion had
occurred among combustible gas tanks in the kitchen of the hotel, which was
close to a casino crowded with tourists at the time of the blast. But the
Israeli newspaper Haaretz reported that the explosion had taken place in the
hotel lobby.

Although Egypt has seen several militant attacks aimed at tourists before, this
looked last night to be the first specifically aimed at Israeli visitors, who
had been explicitly warned last month against travel to the resorts of the Sinai
peninsula in Egypt, one of only two Arab countries with which Israel enjoys a
full treaty. Once again, however, Israeli tourists had flocked to the Sinai
during the Jewish holiday.

The other two, smaller, blasts occurred in Nuweiba, part of the area of Ras al
Shitan, a camping area also highly popular with Israeli tourists. A Ras al Sitan
human rights activist, Abdel Raziq, said: "I heard one very big explosion coming
from the Taba direction and then, after a while, I heard two smaller explosions
from Nuweiba."

In Taba, a witness to the Hilton explosion, Yigal Vakni, told Israel Radio: "The
whole front of the hotel has collapsed. There are dozens of people on the floor,
lots of blood. It is very tense. I am standing outside of the hotel, the whole
thing is burning and they have nothing to put it out with." He said most of the
people at the Hilton were Israeli. "I was in the casino when it happened," he
said. "There was a massive explosion, and the left wall came down. People
started to run around like crazy."

The official warning, issued on 9 September by the counter-terrorism centre in
the Israeli Prime Minister Ariel Sharon's office, identified Egypt's Sinai
peninsula as the likely target of a potential attack. "Recently a concrete
possibility has emerged that terrorists will try to attack tourist centres in
Egypt, especially the Sinai," the Israeli Foreign Ministry had said in a
statement published on its website.

Despite speculation that the militant Palestinian faction Hamas could be to
blame for last night's blasts, there was no immediate claim of responsibility.
Nor was there any indication whether the attack on the relatively soft target of
Israeli tourists in a neighbouring Arab country was in any way connected with
the nine-day incursion by Israeli forces into the northern Gaza strip. Israeli
forces entered the strip once again after two small children were killed by a
Palestinian Qassam rocket fired at the Israeli border town of Sderot last week.

Hamas officials in Gaza also declared after the assassination of one of its
senior official in Damascus last week that Israelis abroad would be vulnerable
to retaliatory attacks, though this threat was subsequently downplayed by
leaders of the faction in Syria.

LOAD-DATE: October 8, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 2004 Independent Print Ltd

                              193 of 301 DOCUMENTS

                          THE DAILY TELEGRAPH(LONDON)

                           October 09, 2004, Saturday

Art and soul of a city reborn As the summer heat cools and the terrorist attacks
of last March recede in the memory, now is the time to visit Madrid. Annie
Bennett finds a city of vibrant modern neighbourhoods, while, overleaf, Paul
Mansfield warms to more ancient themes

BYLINE: BY ANNIE BENNETT

SECTION: Travel; Spain Pg. 10

LENGTH: 2047 words

I love Madrid in autumn. After virtually grinding to a halt over the summer, the
city springs back to life with even more enthusiasm than usual. The sense of
renewal is more poignant this year, following the devastating bombs planted on
commuter trains last March. The wedding in May of Prince Felipe and Letizia
Ortiz brought some of the city's sparkle back, and a feeling of optimism has
returned to the streets. The cultural scene looks more vibrant than ever, with a
full programme of music, dance and theatre events under the umbrella of the
Autumn Festival, which runs for a month from October 13.

When in Madrid, I always go out for breakfast. Everyone does. It is not so much
about the food, which is basically a combination of caffeine and stodge, but the
frantic atmosphere. Yelling and clattering might sound like a nightmare first
thing in the morning, but somehow in Madrid it works. You just have to pick your
bar - the more crowded the better - elbow your way to the counter and grab a
stool.

Dozens of saucers are lined up in front of you, complete with sugar and spoons,
ready for the waiter to bang cups of thick black coffee down on them, adding
milk according to the precise instructions of each customer: a little, a lot,
warm, hot or cold. But it has to be just so. No matter how busy the place is,
you will always get your coffee just the way you like it. Madrid may be chaotic
but it does get its priorities right.

Last Monday morning I was walking along the Gran Via, the avenue that rips
through the heart of Madrid like a fast-flowing river. I heard a resounding
crunch as a businessman parking his car in a tiny space cheerfully bashed into
the car behind. No one batted an eye, and the man just got out and walked off.
Typical Madrid.

The sirens, horns and general roar of the traffic were too much for me that
early, so I dived down a side-street into Chueca, Madrid's answer to London's
Soho, where boutiques, gay clubs, sleek cafes and grungy bars compete for space
in a grid of narrow streets. Chueca is one of half a dozen distinctive districts
in downtown Madrid, all of them slowly becoming gentrified while not quite
shaking off their seedy, downtrodden past.

Badly in need of the first coffee of the day, I went into Diurno on the corner
of Calle Libertad and San Marcos, a combination of cafe and video club, where
David Beckham is a member. One of many new places opening in the area, it is a
great spot to take the pulse of the neighbourhood. On that particular morning,
the clientele consisted of a dozen or so "metrosexuals", a few men in suits and
a drag queen with Lily Savage hair in a red sequinned minidress and the most
shocking pink stilettos I've ever seen. Despite a determined display of
flouncing up and down, no one took a blind bit of notice of her/him.

Chueca was my first home when I went to Madrid 20 years ago. Over the next
decade, I worked my way through a series of flats in and around the area, always
fascinated by the mixture of people living side by side - or, rather, on top of
each other - in four- or five-storey blocks with rickety wooden staircases and
wrought-iron balconies.

My last flat was a characterful (all right, scruffy) top-floor loft, with a
much-coveted roof terrace. Madrid is full of secret gardens and courtyards which
are invisible from the street. From my terrace, there was a view into the exotic
garden of the palatial building next door - the headquarters of the Sociedad de
Autores, an organisation similar to the Performing Rights Society. Designed by
the Catalan architect Jose Grases Riera in 1902, it is the best - and one of the
few - examples of art nouveau in Madrid. Stone plants seem to ooze out of the
building and trickle down the white walls, which are encircled by twisted green
railings.

Leaving Diurno, I popped into the San Anton food market on Calle Augustin
Figueroa. As always, the queues at the different stalls consisted of little old
ladies with shopping trolleys, men in tight leather trousers, transsexuals and
transvestites, all chattering away at high volume about the latest neighbourhood
scandals. I assumed the blonde with bee-stung orange lips was a woman, until I
heard her ask for a kilo of grapes in a deep voice.

Every new trendy bar means one less local shop. The area used to be full of
upholsterers, electricians and cobblers, but every time I go back another few
have closed down. Opposite the market, I was pleased to see that the shop where
they fry their own crisps and churros - doughnut strips you dip in your
breakfast coffee - was still going strong.

Around the corner at Calle San Marcos 10, I found Cordeleria Vazquez, a gloomy
shop that just sells balls of string, of every imaginable size and thickness.
Next door was XXX, a gay underwear boutique, and next to that a greengrocer's.
There are still a few places that sell wood and coal, which the locals ring up
to get delivered, just as you order takeaways in other cities.

The semi-literate man who used to bring logs up to my flat was very concerned at
my domestic set-up, and one day said to me, "Annie, it's all very well you
living up here, writing all day, but at your age you ought to be married. You
should be a senora." He was probably right.

I walked up to Calle Hortaleza, a narrow artery that is choked with traffic day
and night. I passed the Convento de las Recogidas, now the headquarters of the
General Workers' Union but until the 19th century a refuge for ladies of the
night. A specially-created brotherhood of monks, a sort of task force, used to
help the nuns by trawling the streets at night, rounding up women of ill repute
and escorting them to the safety of the convent. This was known as the Round of
Mortal Sin, a practice that could probably be successfully adapted to
21st-century Madrid.

Just over the road is the San Anton church, all that is left of an 18th-century
monastery. Back then, the monks did a brisk trade treating people with various
venereal diseases with a potion concocted from pig fat, originally invented to
cure people with a rather nasty condition known as

St Anthony's fire. Another practice that perhaps could be reworked and
reintroduced.

I arrived at the Glorieta de Bilbao, a crossroads on the boulevard that traces
the line of the 17th-century city wall, demolished in the mid-19th century. In
Madrid, you are always crossing invisible frontiers between neighbourhoods, and
now

I had left Chueca and was on the border with Malasana. Before plunging into this
very different area, it was time for another coffee, this time at the splendid
Cafe Comercial, one of Madrid's few remaining traditional cafes.

In the 20 years I've been going there, it has barely changed. The waiters are
even the same; no fear of trendification here. At the black marble tables, the
habitual clientele are intellectuals, politicians, poets and the inevitable
foreigners scribbling earnestly in journals. In my book, a coffee at the
Comercial is as essential as going to the Prado for anyone visiting Madrid.

I crossed into Calle Manuela Malasana, named after a girl who worked in a sewing
factory and was the heroine of the uprising against Napoleon's troops in Madrid
on May 2, 1808, now a bank holiday in the Madrid region. When the French
soldiers started shooting indiscriminately at the crowd, she stabbed at them
with her sewing scissors, but died in the battle.

For decades Malasana was extremely dilapidated, but the pretty buildings are
gradually being done up by new owners and the area is becoming rather bijou.
Twenty years ago, you could buy a flat there for pounds 5,000, but now you would
be lucky to find a tiny garret for pounds 100,000. While it was still cheap, it
became a bohemian hang-out, with dozens of cafes, bars and jazz clubs. It is
still a great area for nightlife, but has always been plagued by drug dealers
and all the associated problems.

On warm evenings, people congregate at the pavement cafes in the Plaza Dos de
Mayo, the square at the heart of the district, which gets its name from the date
of the famous battle. The nearby Calle Espiritu Santo was an outdoor market
until around 25 years ago, and is still a busy local shopping street. The name
comes from the Cross of the Holy Spirit that once marked the site where a string
of brothels was struck by lightning in the 17th century.

I reluctantly left Malasana to return to my hotel, the Reina Victoria on Plaza
Santa Ana, on the south side of the Gran Via. This square is at the centre of an
area associated with bullfighting (see Paul Mansfield's article, right) and
where the first theatres sprang up in the late 16th century. Now another major
nightlife hub, it has a literary past that is still very much apparent in the
street names and many plaques - yellow rather than blue - that adorn the
facades.

Cervantes, Lope de Vega and Quevedo were just a few of the writers who lived in
the mesh of streets. The area used to be full of printers and booksellers, but
most have been replaced by bars and restaurants.

On the corner of Calle Leon and Calle Cervantes, a stone plaque marks the house
where Cervantes died in 1616. At that time, this spot was a meeting place for
actors, playwrights and assorted hangers-on of the theatrical world. A hotbed of
gossip, it was the place to spot celebrities and discuss their merits and
misdemeanours.

These days, the Madrilenos can get all the scandals they need from the
television and magazines. At the pavement cafes in the Plaza Santa Ana, however,
the blatant people-watching, complete with loud commentaries, suggested that the
Madrilenos' love of street life and socialising is in no danger of dying out
just yet.

Autumn in Madrid

Festival de Otono, Madrid's autumn festival, runs from October 13 to November
14. The music programme concentrates on Brazilian artists. Dance events feature
top flamenco artists. The leading Catalan theatre director Carles Santos is
presenting The Composer, the Singer, the Chef and the Sinner, based on the work
of Rossini. The RSC (01789 403 444, www.rsc.org.uk) will perform its season of
Spanish Golden Age plays at the Teatro Espanol, Oct 23-31.

Exhibitions The Spanish Portrait: From El Greco to Picasso is at the Prado
(www.museoprado.mcu.es), Oct 20-Feb 6. At the Reina Sofia contemporary art
museum (www.museoreinasofia.  mcu.es), an exhibition by Antoni Tapies, Spain's
greatest living artist, opens on Oct 5 and runs until Jan 10 in its new space,
designed by Jean Nouvel. Gauguin and the Origins of Symbolism opened on Sept 28
and runs until Jan 9 at the Thyssen-Bornemisza (www.museothyssen.org). The
Lazaro Galdiano Museum (www.flg.es) reopened earlier this year after extensive
remodelling. Though a little off the beaten track, it is well worth seeking out
to see a huge collection including works by El Greco, Goya, Velazquez, Constable
and Gainsborough.

Where to stay, eat, drink Opening at the end of October is the swanky

5-star AC Palacio del Retiro, opposite the Retiro Park in a grand, early

20th-century building. A short walk from the Prado, Reina Sofia and Thyssen
museums, the hotel has 51 rooms. Doubles from pounds 230. Calle Alfonso XII 14
(0034 902 292293, www.ac-hotels.com).

Bar Le Moulin Rose in Chueca is a kitsch cafe that morphs into a cabaret club as
the night wears on. The decor features a lot of red velvet and original props
from the film Moulin Rouge.

Calle Hernan Cortes 21, open

4pm-4am.

Restaurant Conache in Malasana looks like a neighbourhood bar with outdoor
tables, but it also operates as a restaurant serving imaginative food at
reasonable prices. Try the venison and apple spring rolls or the spinach and fig
salad. About pounds 12 a head.

Plaza de San Ildefonso (91 522 9500).

Getting there Iberia (0845 850 9000, www.iberia.com) flies to Madrid from
Heathrow and Gatwick: from pounds 91 including taxes. Annie Bennett stayed at
the Hotel Tryp Reina Victoria (00 34 91 531 4500, www.trypreinavictoria.
solmelia.com), Plaza Santa Ana 14. Weekend rates start at pounds 90 per night
for a double room including breakfast.

Further information Spanish Tourist Office (020 7486 8077, www.spain.  info).
Other useful websites: www.madrid.org, www.munimadrid.es.

LOAD-DATE: October 9, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 2004 Telegraph Group Limited

                              194 of 301 DOCUMENTS

                                  The Express

                                October 11, 2004

WHY WE FEAR SPIDERS EVEN MORE THAN A TERROR ATTACK

BYLINE: By Geoff Marsh

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 19

LENGTH: 311 words


IF you want to scare your friends this Hallowe'en there's only one fool-proof
way - drop a creepycrawly on them.

Forget ghosts, ghouls and even Osama Bin Laden. Spiders are Britain's number one
fear, despite Government leaflets warning us to be prepared to protect ourselves
in the event of a terrorist attack.

Spiders, cockroaches and daddy longlegs are more likely than anything else to
send a shiver down our spines, causing anxiety, apprehension and just plain
horror.

The threat of terrorist attacks is next, ahead of snakes, heights and death.
Then comes visiting the dentist, needles and injections, public appearances and
speeches at work or family events. Fear of debt and flying are also common.

Universal Pictures surveyed 1,000 adults to mark the DVD release of monster
movie Van Helsing. It found that growing old alone, failure, ghosts, the dark,
new situations, crime and rejection also bug Britons. Other worries included
tackling DIY jobs, turning into your parents, the wife in a bad mood, parenting
and Tony Blair.

Psychologist Donna Dawson said: "It is not surprising that terrorist attacks
came second to creepy-crawlies.

"This is because fear of small creatures that scuttle about on four or more legs
is much more ancient and primordial.

"It goes straight back to caveman days and what might be lurking in the back
darkness of our cave homes which could hurt us.

"Terrorists are at least human, so in some way comprehensible.

Also, the chances of bumping into a creepy-crawly are much greater than our
chance of crossing paths with a terrorist!" Aileen Coulson of Universal Pictures
said: "This revealing survey is sure to provide some great ammunition for
Hallowe'en."

Top 10 Scary Things

Spiders Terrorist attack Snakes Heights Death Dentists Needles or injections
Public speaking Fear of debt Flying

LOAD-DATE: October 11, 2004

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Newspaper

                       Copyright 2004 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS

                              195 of 301 DOCUMENTS



                                   The Mirror

                            October 11, 2004, Monday

CRAWLIES GIVE US MORE CREEPS THAN A TERRORIST ATTACK;
 SPIDERS AND BUGS LEAD POLL OF OUR WORST PHOBIAS

BYLINE: JON KELLY

SECTION: 3 Star Edition; NEWS; Pg. 23

LENGTH: 286 words


BRITS are more afraid of spiders than terrorists, according to a survey out
today.

Household creepy-crawlies - including bugs, cockroaches and daddy-longlegs - are
the nation's number one fear.

Terrorist attacks came second in the top 10 poll of people's biggest phobias.

This is despite panic over Osama bin Laden's terror group al-Qaeda since the
September 11 hijackings - as well as advice handed out from the Government on
how to survive a terror attack.

Also causing a shiver down the spine were snakes in third place.

Psychologist Donna Dawson said: "It isn't surprising that terrorist attacks come
second to creepy crawlies.

"Terrorists are at least human, so in some way comprehensible.

"But for most people the insect world might just as well be an alien species.

"This is because fear of small creatures that scuttle about on four or more legs
is a much more ancient, primordial fear.

"It goes back to caveman days and what might be lurking in the black darkness of
our cave homes which could hurt us.

"Also, the chances of bumping into a creepy-crawly are much greater than
crossing paths with a terrorist."

Surprisingly, death was only fifth on the list of things that frightened us.

More bizarre responses included DIY, turning into our parents and the wife being
in a bad mood.

Even Prime Minister Tony Blair found himself cited as a fear.

The Universal Pictures survey questioned 1,000 adults.

Aileen Coulson of Universal said: "This survey will provide some great
ammunition for Hallowe'en.

"Brits can forget ghouls and goblins if they want to put the 'willies' up a
friend, colleague or family member - a prank spider is sure to do the job."

LOAD-DATE: October 11, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                            Copyright 2004 MGN Ltd.

                              196 of 301 DOCUMENTS



                                   The Mirror

                            October 11, 2004, Monday

CRAWLIES GIVE US MORE CREEPS THAN A TERRORIST ATTACK;
 SPIDERS AND BUGS LEAD POLL OF OUR WORST PHOBIAS

BYLINE: JON KELLY

SECTION: Ulster Edition; NEWS; Pg. 26

LENGTH: 289 words


WE are more afraid of spiders than terrorists, according to a survey out today.

Household creepy-crawlies - including bugs, cockroaches and daddy-longlegs - are
the nation's number one fear.

Terrorist attacks came second in the top 10 poll of people's biggest phobias.

This is despite panic over Osama bin Laden's terror group al-Qaeda since the
September 11 hijackings - as well as advice handed out from the Government on
how to survive a terror attack.

Also causing a shiver down the spine were snakes in third place.

Psychologist Donna Dawson said: "It isn't surprising that terrorist attacks come
second to creepy crawlies.

"Terrorists are at least human, so in some way comprehensible.

"But for most people the insect world might just as well be an alien species.

"This is because fear of small creatures that scuttle about on four or more legs
is a much more ancient, primordial fear.

"It goes back to caveman days and what might be lurking in the black darkness of
our cave homes which could hurt us.

"Also, the chances of bumping into a creepy-crawly are much greater than
crossing paths with a terrorist."

Surprisingly, death was only fifth on the list of things that frightened us.

More bizarre responses included DIY, turning into our parents and the wife being
in a bad mood.

Even Prime Minister Tony Blair found himself cited as a fear.

The Universal Pictures survey questioned 1,000 adults.

Aileen Coulson of Universal said: "This survey will provide some great
ammunition for Hallowe'en.

"Brits can forget ghouls and goblins if they want to put the 'willies' up a
friend, colleague or family member - a prank spider is sure to do the job."

Graphics Omitted.

LOAD-DATE: October 11, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                            Copyright 2004 MGN Ltd.

                              197 of 301 DOCUMENTS

                          THE DAILY TELEGRAPH(LONDON)

                           October 12, 2004, Tuesday

Kerry attacked on terrorist 'nuisance' US elections 2004

BYLINE: By Alec Russell

SECTION: News; International Pg. 13

LENGTH: 178 words

PRESIDENT George W Bush launched another offensive against Senator John Kerry's
credentials as commander-in-chief yesterday for saying he wanted to get to a
point at which terrorism was merely a "nuisance".

Mr Bush's campaign staff seized on remarks Mr Kerry made to the New York Times
magazine to accuse him of gravely underestimating the terrorist threat.

Asked what it would take for Americans to feel safe again, the Democratic
candidate drew on his experiences as a prosecutor in the 1970s to give a far
less stark view of the threat than Mr Bush.  'We have to get back to the place
we were, where terrorists are not the focus of our lives, but they're a
nuisance," he said.

"I know we're never going to end prostitution. We're never going to end illegal
gambling.

"But we're going to reduce it, organised crime, to a level where it isn't on the
rise. It isn't threatening people's lives every day."

Bush supporters saw the remarks as a gift as the president rams home his message
that Mr Kerry is not tough enough to lead the fight against terrorism.

LOAD-DATE: October 12, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 2004 Telegraph Group Limited

                              198 of 301 DOCUMENTS

                  UK Newsquest Regional Press - This is Dorset

                                October 12, 2004

Holiday dreams hit by terrorist attack

BYLINE: Fiona Pendlebury (fiona.pendlebury@bournemouthecho.co.uk)

LENGTH: 335 words

DATELINE: Dorset


A COUPLE say their holiday to Egypt is in tatters after a tour operator refused
to switch destinations following the recent terrorist bombings.

Katie Parkhurst 21 and Dan Mole 26 of Clarence Place Christchurch booked the £1
400 trip from Saturday October 16 to Saturday October 23 as a treat after Katie
spent a brief spell in hospital.

But the couple were horrified when they read about the three suicide car
bombings in Egypt killing 23 people which are being linked to al-Qaeda.

One of the explosions was at the Hilton Hotel in Taba just 20 minutes from the
Hotel Sofitel at Taba Heights where they are due to stay.

The couple were left fuming when tour operators Libra refused to refund the cost
of the trip or allow them to transfer to another destination.

Katie said: "It took us a year to save up for the holiday. I have just come out
of hospital and thought Dan and I deserved a break.

"I feel disgusted at the fact they could send people there.

"We could be sunbathing by the pool and a bomb could go off. I think their
attitude is disgusting.

"We are going to Taba the actual resort where it happened.

"How can they think it's a safe place to go away to? It's like sending us to New
York straight after September 11. The holiday cost £1 400 but our lives are
worth more than that."

Joanna Kolatsis spokesman for Libra said the company did not plan to offer
refunds or free transfers because it believed there was "no risk".

She added: "We are following Foreign Office advice and at the moment they are
not advising against travel to that region.

"Until they advise otherwise we don't feel there is a specific threat to
holidaymakers.

"This was a specific attack on Israelis and we don't think this is in any way
aimed at Brits.

"We really feel they don't have anything to worry about."

The Foreign and Commonwealth Office is not advising travellers to avoid the Taba
region of Egypt despite the recent explosions.

First published: Oct 11

LOAD-DATE: October 12, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: UPSET: Dan Mole and Katie Parkhurst have been refused a refund after
their Egyptian holiday destination was the target of car bombs;

                  Copyright 2004 NewsQuest Media Group Limited

                              199 of 301 DOCUMENTS

                                Fife Free Press

                                October 13, 2004

CLOSURE COULD PUT TERROR ATTACK RESPONSE IN JEOPARDY

LENGTH: 345 words


CLOSING fire control rooms could place the response to a terrorist attack in
jeopardy, it has been claimed.

Fife's fire brigade union chief also alleged that the ability of the service to
deal with a major incident was being undermined by a lack of manpower.

Campaigners are fighting plans to shutdown the Thornton centre, which controls
Fife Fire and Rescue Service operations.

The government wants to reduce the number of such centres in Scotland from eight
to an as yet unspecified number, saving £3 million - a figure which opponents
argue is minimal within the context of the £220m a year national budget.

They also fear that a lack of local knowledge and even problems understanding
accents in centralised control rooms would lead to valuable time and even lives
being lost in an emergency.

Alex Kinnear, the Fire Brigade Union's acting secretary in Fife, said: "The
whole point of the issue with regards to terrorist attack is to be able to have
a back-up in case of losing another control room.

"If you are reducing the number from eight to as little as one, which is what
the original report says, you have serious problems if other control rooms are
affected.

"It's not just a case of putting all your eggs in one basket - you're putting
the pot and the cooker in there as well.

"The idea that one control room, perhaps in the north of England, would be able
to deal with an incident of this type in Scotland is obviously farcical."

He accepted that his members had been issued with equipment and given training
on coping with such incidents, but added: "Our criticism is that the government
have not put the same kind of money into recruiting more firefighters."

Andrew Keddie, Fife Council's fire safety chief, said: "As I understand it, if
there's only one control room it would be built in such a way as to make it
terrorist-resistant.

"The government has issued extra resources for equipment which is held at a lot
of different places in Scotland and it can be deployed throughout the country if
it is needed."

LOAD-DATE: October 20, 2004

LANGUAGE: English

                           © 2004 Johnston Press Plc

                              200 of 301 DOCUMENTS

                               The Times (London)

                          October 13, 2004, Wednesday

Moscow children to wear dog tags in response to terrorist attack

BYLINE: Jeremy Page in Moscow

SECTION: Overseas news; 39

LENGTH: 630 words


SCHOOLCHILDREN in Moscow will soon have to wear military-style dog tags and
carry "passports" as part of security measures introduced since the Beslan
school siege.

The dog tags will carry children's names and contact details, and the passports
will contain fingerprints and basic medical information, such as details of
allergies, and instructions on what to do in the event of a terrorist attack.

The scheme, to be introduced in the capital at the end of the year, is designed
to prevent the sort of problems that authorities faced in identifying the dead,
injured and living hostages from Beslan.

Security will be increased with better-trained guards at all Moscow's 1,500
schools and 3,000 kindergartens. The authorities are considering installing
alarm systems and putting up security fences.

Residents of Beslan marked the end of the Russian Orthodox Church's 40-day
mourning period yesterday by lighting prayer candles and propping up icons and
photographs in the gymnasium where most of the 330 people -half of them children
-were killed.

Many grief-stricken relatives are still waiting for the results of DNA tests on
about 15 unidentified bodies from the school.

Distribution of millions of pounds of aid has been delayed, partly because of
problems in identifying victims and partly because of bureaucratic corruption
and incompetence.

Some Beslan residents believe that the death toll could be almost double the
official total. Others are convinced that some of the hostage-takers escaped and
took captives over the border to the neighbouring region of Ingushetia.

Officials in Beslan fear that local anger could provoke revenge attacks on the
small Ingush minority in North Ossetia now that the mourning period is over.

"The situation is still very tense," one Beslan resident told The Times by
telephone. "The authorities tell us there must not be any revenge attacks, but
we must take blood for the blood of our children."

The Ingush and Ossetians fought a ten-day war in 1992 over rights to land as
Ingush sought to return to their homes half a century after Stalin sent them
into exile together with the Chechens.

North Ossetians, who are mainly Christian, now accuse the Ingush, who are mostly
Muslim, of sympathising with the rebels who took over the school on September 1
and demanded that Russian troops withdraw from Chechnya.

Several of the militants who seized the school have been identified as Ingush
fighters loyal to the Chechen separatist warlord, Shamil Basayev, who has
claimed responsibility for masterminding the hostagetaking.

President Putin has accused Mr Basayev of trying to spark a bloody inter ethnic
war in the volatile North Caucasus as a prelude to setting up an Islamic state
in the region. Russian officials have called for restraint, saying that revenge
attacks will only fulfil Basayev's wishes.

On Monday the President of Ingushetia, Murat Zyazikov, played down fears of
interethnic clashes.

"The people of the North Caucasus have become wiser and, moreover, they are
tired of war," he told reporters. "The events of 1992 won't be repeated. The
people themselves don't want to destabilise the region."

He said that law enforcement agencies and security forces had been conducting
joint patrols and stepping up work with residents, youth and religious leaders
during the mourning period to prevent any outbreak of violence. He said that he
was also ready to make a joint public appeal with his North Ossetian
counterpart, Alexander Dzasokhov, for residents to remain calm.

Nevertheless, residents of Nazran, the biggest city in Ingushetia, said that
tension was high in expectation of an armed attack and that daily travel to and
from North Ossetia had almost dried up.


LOAD-DATE: October 13, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                    Copyright 2004 Times Newspapers Limited

                              201 of 301 DOCUMENTS

                     The Guardian (London) - Final Edition

                                October 15, 2004

G2: The making of the terror myth: Since September 11 Britain has been warned of
the 'inevitability' of catastrophic terrorist attack. But has the danger been
exaggerated? A major new TV documentary claims that the perceived threat is a
politically driven fantasy - and al-Qaida a dark illusion. Andy Beckett reports

BYLINE: Andy Beckett

SECTION: Guardian Features Pages, Pg. 2

LENGTH: 2317 words


Since the attacks on the United States in September 2001, there have been more
than a thousand references in British national newspapers, working out at almost
one every single day, to the phrase "dirty bomb". There have been articles about
how such a device can use ordinary explosives to spread lethal radiation; about
how London would be evacuated in the event of such a detonation; about the Home
Secretary David Blunkett's statement on terrorism in November 2002 that
specifically raised the possibility of a dirty bomb being planted in Britain;
and about the arrests of several groups of people, the latest only last month,
for allegedly plotting exactly that.

Starting next Wednesday, BBC2 is to broadcast a three-part documentary series
that will add further to what could be called the dirty bomb genre. But, as its
title suggests, The Power of Nightmares: The Rise of the Politics of Fear takes
a different view of the weapon's potential.

"I don't think it would kill anybody," says Dr Theodore Rockwell, an authority
on radiation, in an interview for the series. "You'll have trouble finding a
serious report that would claim otherwise." The American department of energy,
Rockwell continues, has simulated a dirty bomb explosion, "and they calculated
that the most exposed individual would get a fairly high dose (of radiation),
not life-threatening." And even this minor threat is open to question. The test
assumed that no one fled the explosion for one year.

During the three years in which the "war on terror" has been waged, high-profile
challenges to its assumptions have been rare. The sheer number of incidents and
warnings connected or attributed to the war has left little room, it seems, for
heretical thoughts. In this context, the central theme of The Power of
Nightmares is riskily counter-intuitive and provocative. Much of the currently
perceived threat from international terrorism, the series argues, "is a fantasy
that has been exaggerated and distorted by politicians. It is a dark illusion
that has spread unquestioned through governments around the world, the security
services, and the international media." The series' explanation for this is even
bolder: "In an age when all the grand ideas have lost credibility, fear of a
phantom enemy is all the politicians have left to maintain their power."

Adam Curtis, who wrote and produced the series, acknowledges the difficulty of
saying such things now. "If a bomb goes off, the fear I have is that everyone
will say, 'You're completely wrong,' even if the incident doesn't touch my
argument. This shows the way we have all become trapped, the way even I have
become trapped by a fear that is completely irrational."

So controversial is the tone of his series, that trailers for it were not
broadcast last weekend because of the killing of Kenneth Bigley. At the BBC,
Curtis freely admits, there are "anxieties". But there is also enthusiasm for
the programmes, in part thanks to his reputation. Over the past dozen years, via
similarly ambitious documentary series such as Pandora's Box, The Mayfair Set
and The Century of the Self, Curtis has established himself as perhaps the most
acclaimed maker of serious television programmes in Britain. His trademarks are
long research, the revelatory use of archive footage, telling interviews, and
smooth, insistent voiceovers concerned with the unnoticed deeper currents of
recent history, narrated by Curtis himself in tones that combine traditional BBC
authority with something more modern and sceptical: "I want to try to make
people look at things they think they know about in a new way."

The Power of Nightmares seeks to overturn much of what is widely believed about
Osama bin Laden and al-Qaida. The latter, it argues, is not an organised
international network. It does not have members or a leader. It does not have
"sleeper cells". It does not have an overall strategy. In fact, it barely exists
at all, except as an idea about cleansing a corrupt world through religious
violence.

Curtis' evidence for these assertions is not easily dismissed. He tells the
story of Islamism, or the desire to establish Islam as an unbreakable political
framework, as half a century of mostly failed, short-lived revolutions and
spectacular but politically ineffective terrorism. Curtis points out that
al-Qaida did not even have a name until early 2001, when the American government
decided to prosecute Bin Laden in his absence and had to use anti-Mafia laws
that required the existence of a named criminal organisation.

Curtis also cites the Home Office's own statistics for arrests and convictions
of suspected terrorists since September 11 2001. Of the 664 people detained up
to the end of last month, only 17 have been found guilty. Of these, the majority
were Irish Republicans, Sikh militants or members of other groups with no
connection to Islamist terrorism. Nobody has been convicted who is a proven
member of al-Qaida.

In fact, Curtis is not alone in wondering about all this. Quietly but
increasingly, other observers of the war on terror have been having similar
doubts. "The grand concept of the war has not succeeded," says Jonathan Eyal,
director of the British military thinktank the Royal United Services Institute.
"In purely military terms, it has been an inconclusive war . . . a rather
haphazard operation. Al-Qaida managed the most spectacular attack, but clearly
it is also being sustained by the way that we rather cavalierly stick the name
al-Qaida on Iraq, Indonesia, the Philippines. There is a long tradition that if
you divert all your resources to a threat, then you exaggerate it."

Bill Durodie, director of the international centre for security analysis at
King's College London, says: "The reality (of the al-Qaida threat to the west)
has been essentially a one-off. There has been one incident in the developed
world since 9/11 (the Madrid bombings). There's no real evidence that all these
groups are connected." Crispin Black, a senior government intelligence analyst
until 2002, is more cautious but admits the terrorist threat presented by
politicians and the media is "out of date and too one-dimensional. We think
there is a bit of a gulf between the terrorists' ambition and their ability to
pull it off."

Terrorism, by definition, depends on an element of bluff. Yet ever since
terrorists in the modern sense of the term (the word terrorism was actually
coined to describe the strategy of a government, the authoritarian French
revolutionary regime of the 1790s) began to assassinate politicians and then
members of the public during the 19th century, states have habitually
overreacted. Adam Roberts, professor of international relations at Oxford, says
that governments often believe struggles with terrorists "to be of absolute
cosmic significance", and that therefore "anything goes" when it comes to
winning. The historian Linda Colley adds: "States and their rulers expect to
monopolise violence, and that is why they react so virulently to terrorism."

Britain may also be particularly sensitive to foreign infiltrators, fifth
columnists and related menaces. In spite, or perhaps because of, the absence of
an actual invasion for many centuries, British history is marked by frequent
panics about the arrival of Spanish raiding parties, French revolutionary
agitators, anarchists, bolsheviks and Irish terrorists. "These kind of panics
rarely happen without some sort of cause," says Colley. "But politicians make
the most of them."

They are not the only ones who find opportunities. "Almost no one questions this
myth about al-Qaida because so many people have got an interest in keeping it
alive," says Curtis. He cites the suspiciously circular relationship between the
security services and much of the media since September 2001: the way in which
official briefings about terrorism, often unverified or unverifiable by
journalists, have become dramatic press stories which - in a jittery
media-driven democracy - have prompted further briefings and further stories.
Few of these ominous announcements are retracted if they turn out to be
baseless: "There is no fact-checking about al-Qaida."

In one sense, of course, Curtis himself is part of the al-Qaida industry. The
Power of Nightmares began as an investigation of something else, the rise of
modern American conservatism. Curtis was interested in Leo Strauss, a political
philosopher at the university of Chicago in the 50s who rejected the liberalism
of postwar America as amoral and who thought that the country could be rescued
by a revived belief in America's unique role to battle evil in the world.
Strauss's certainty and his emphasis on the use of grand myths as a higher form
of political propaganda created a group of influential disciples such as Paul
Wolfowitz, now the US deputy defence secretary. They came to prominence by
talking up the Russian threat during the cold war and have applied a similar
strategy in the war on terror.

As Curtis traced the rise of the "Straussians", he came to a conclusion that
would form the basis for The Power of Nightmares. Straussian conservatism had a
previously unsuspected amount in common with Islamism: from origins in the 50s,
to a formative belief that liberalism was the enemy, to an actual period of
Islamist-Straussian collaboration against the Soviet Union during the war in
Afghanistan in the 80s (both movements have proved adept at finding new foes to
keep them going). Although the Islamists and the Straussians have fallen out
since then, as the attacks on America in 2001 graphically demonstrated, they are
in another way, Curtis concludes, collaborating still: in sustaining the
"fantasy" of the war on terror.

Some may find all this difficult to swallow. But Curtis insists,"There is no way
that I'm trying to be controversial just for the sake of it." Neither is he
trying to be an anti-conservative polemicist like Michael Moore: "(Moore's)
purpose is avowedly political. My hope is that you won't be able to tell what my
politics are." For all the dizzying ideas and visual jolts and black jokes in
his programmes, Curtis describes his intentions in sober, civic-minded terms.
"If you go back into history and plod through it, the myth falls away. You see
that these aren't terrifying new monsters. It's drawing the poison of the fear."

But whatever the reception of the series, this fear could be around for a while.
It took the British government decades to dismantle the draconian laws it passed
against French revolutionary infiltrators; the cold war was sustained for almost
half a century without Russia invading the west, or even conclusive evidence
that it ever intended to. "The archives have been opened," says the cold war
historian David Caute, "but they don't bring evidence to bear on this." And the
danger from Islamist terrorists, whatever its scale, is concrete. A sceptical
observer of the war on terror in the British security services says: "All they
need is a big bomb every 18 months to keep this going."

The war on terror already has a hold on western political culture. "After a
300-year debate between freedom of the individual and protection of society, the
protection of society seems to be the only priority," says Eyal. Black agrees:
"We are probably moving to a point in the UK where national security becomes the
electoral question."

Some critics of this situation see our striking susceptibility during the 90s to
other anxieties - the millennium bug, MMR, genetically modified food - as a sort
of dress rehearsal for the war on terror. The press became accustomed to
publishing scare stories and not retracting them; politicians became accustomed
to responding to supposed threats rather than questioning them; the public
became accustomed to the idea that some sort of apocalypse might be just around
the corner. "Insecurity is the key driving concept of our times," says Durodie.
"Politicians have packaged themselves as risk managers. There is also a demand
from below for protection." The real reason for this insecurity, he argues, is
the decay of the 20th century's political belief systems and social structures:
people have been left "disconnected" and "fearful".

Yet the notion that "security politics" is the perfect instrument for every
ambitious politician from Blunkett to Wolfowitz also has its weaknesses. The
fears of the public, in Britain at least, are actually quite erratic: when the
opinion pollsters Mori asked people what they felt was the most important
political issue, the figure for "defence and foreign affairs" leapt from 2% to
60% after the attacks of September 2001, yet by January 2002 had fallen back
almost to its earlier level. And then there are the twin risks that the terrors
politicians warn of will either not materialise or will materialise all too
brutally, and in both cases the politicians will be blamed. "This is a very
rickety platform from which to build up a political career," says Eyal. He sees
the war on terror as a hurried improvisation rather than some grand Straussian
strategy: "In democracies, in order to galvanize the public for war, you have to
make the enemy bigger, uglier and more menacing."

Afterwards, I look at a website for a well-connected American foreign policy
lobbying group called the Committee on the Present Danger. The committee
features in The Power of Nightmares as a vehicle for alarmist Straussian
propaganda during the cold war. After the Soviet collapse, as the website puts
it, "The mission of the committee was considered complete." But then the website
goes on: "Today radical Islamists threaten the safety of the American people.
Like the cold war, securing our freedom is a long-term struggle. The road to
victory begins . . ."

The Power of Nightmares starts on BBC2 at 9pm on Wednesday October 20.


LOAD-DATE: October 15, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 2004 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              202 of 301 DOCUMENTS



                                 Travel Weekly

                                October 15, 2004

Trade rocked by blast;
Operators say bookings will suffer in the short term following terrorist attacks

BYLINE: Other Contributor

SECTION: Operators/Agents; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 335 words


OPERATORS to Egypt fear a downturn in sales following last week's car bomb that
killed at least 30 people in the Rea Sea resort of Taba.

Two further explosions in Ras Shaiton and Nuweiba followed the Taba bomb, which
blew up the five-star Hilton hotel.

Two Britons were killed and more than 100 people were injured in the Taba blast.
Seven people were killed in the Ras Shaiton and Nuweiba blasts.

Despite the Foreign and Commonwealth Office not advising against travel to the
country, operators fear the incidents will hit sales to Egypt, a destination
rising in popularity following increased tourism investment.

Longwood Holidays managing director Rafi Caplin said the operator had 19 clients
staying in the Hilton, but none was hurt by the blast and all are staying in
alternative accommodation.

Egypt specialist Peltours had more than 500 customers in the resort of Taba, but
none at the Hilton.

For 48 hours after the incident customers were allowed to cancel or amend
bookings for travel to the end of October free of charge. Normal booking
conditions now apply.

Sales and marketing director Darren Panto said: "The bomb will have an impact
but we are confident it will be short lived."

Argo Holidays sales and marketing director Theo Demetriou  - which operates to
Sharm el-Sheikh - said calls started coming in from concerned customers the
morning after the explosions, although there have been no cancellations.

"Sharm is 160 miles from Taba but people are bound to be apprehensive," he said.

Caplin urged operators to continue supporting Taba in its darkest hour.
"Operators must stand by Taba and not pull out at the first incident," he said.

Cadogan Travel senior travel consultant Sonia Stephens, who has just returned
from two weeks in Taba, said: "Taba is a great destination. It was starting to
become popular but bookings will now suffer."

Egyptian tourism minister Ahmed El Maghraby claimed the bombs, believed to be
the work of Palestinian militants, were not targeted at the country's tourism
industry.

LOAD-DATE: October 18, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright  2004 Reed Business Information Ltd.
                              All rights reserved

                              203 of 301 DOCUMENTS

                          THE DAILY TELEGRAPH(LONDON)

                           October 16, 2004, Saturday

Britons stay with Egypt holidays despite Taba terror attack

BYLINE: By Paul Miles

SECTION: Travel Pg. 04

LENGTH: 299 words

British holidaymakers are continuing to travel to Egypt, despite recent bomb
blasts.

An explosion at Taba, near the Israeli border, wrecked the Taba Hilton and
killed more than 30 people. Two smaller bombs killed three at a campsite near
Nuweiba .

The Foreign Office has not issued a warning against travel to Egypt, but states
that "further terrorist attacks may be likely".

The Egypt specialist Peltours had more than 600 people staying in the Taba
Heights resort, a 30-minute drive from Taba, but only two asked to return home
early. "The British are resilient," said Darren Panto , the sales and marketing
director. "We could have had hundreds coming back."

Increased checks on cars near hotels are taking place, he added, and security is
"as strong as it can be".

Peltours has cut its prices and still has availability for half-term. A week's
stay at the five-star Marriott Hotel in Taba Heights, departing on October 23 or
24, has been reduced by pounds 200 to pounds 499.

Longwood Holidays, the first British operator to offer holidays to Taba, said
programmes were continuing as normal. Cancellations up to Monday were refunded
in full; normal conditions now apply.

"Lots of destinations around the world have the potential for terrorism," said
the firm's managing director, Rafi Caplin, "but people should carry on with
their holidays as normal."

Thomson is expanding its Egypt programme and has tripled capacity in Sharm
el-Sheikh. None of its resorts is near Taba and a spokesman said he was
confident the bombings would not affect business. "We've had only 12
cancellations," he said. "Bookings come in every day."

A spokeswoman for the Egyptian ministry of tourism said the attacks "weren't
meant to hit the tourism industry" and would have "minimal impact" on it.

LOAD-DATE: October 16, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 2004 Telegraph Group Limited

                              204 of 301 DOCUMENTS

                            The Independent (London)

                           October 16, 2004, Saturday

RACISM IS THE NEW TERRORISM' AS ATTACKS RISE IN ULSTER

BYLINE: DAVID MCKITTRICK IRELAND CORRESPONDENT Clockwise from above: a family in
hiding in July; three men forced from their home in August; a Pakistani family's
front window smashed; graffiti in Belfast; an arson attack on a Chinese
restaurant in Lisburn Alan Lewis/Photopress Belfast

SECTION: First Edition; NEWS; Pg. 32

LENGTH: 860 words


COMMUNITY LEADERS in Northern Ireland have warned that racism is threatening to
replace terrorism in a rising tide of attacks and incidents on immigrant
families.

Three hundred incidents of racially motivated intimidation have been reported
this year and the authorities fear that aggressive racism has become a permanent
feature of post-Troubles society in the province. A former Belfast councillor
said: "We're beginning to think racism is the new terrorism."

Police are hunting those responsible for the latest racist incident in which
members of the Turkish and Indian communities in Comber, Co Down, had bricks
thrown through their car windows and offensive graffiti painted on their homes.

Monica McWilliams, professor of social policy at Ulster University, said:
"People here exhibit as much racism as they do sectarianism."

With the general decline of political and sectarian violence over the past
decade more immigrants have arrived and the ethnic minority population now
stands at about 30,000. As the numbers have grown so have the problems.

Tom Ekin, the Lord Mayor of Belfast, said this week: "This year has seen a
dramatic upsurge in serious racist attacks, motivated by prejudice and hatred,
and it is an issue we need to get to grips with quickly."

When the attacks began to mount a few years ago it was hoped that they would
prove a passing phase, but it appears they are here to stay. The communities
affected by the wave of violence include blacks, Chinese, Portuguese, Filipinos,
Lithuanians, Poles and Muslims. In the case of Muslims, hostility appeared to
mount in the wake of the 11 September 2001 attacks on the US.

Jamal Iweida, a Muslim from Palestine who arrived in 1995 to attend university
in Belfast, described his experience. "When I first came here there were no
problems. Muslims have been living in Belfast for a hundred years and we are an
integral part of social, educational and economic life. In recent years we have
experienced a nastier side to Northern Irish society. Today the one thing I long
for is that my children can walk down the street and not be called names or have
people set their dogs on them."

Alfred Abolarin, a Nigerian who is chairman of the Northern Ireland Council for
Ethnic Minorities, said he had been called names and had his car attacked. "This
is fast becoming a multicultural society and that scares a lot of people. People
are regularly subjected to name-calling and harassment," he said. "The most
extreme form is physical attacks where people have had their cars burnt, homes
wrecked, graffiti sprayed on their walls - they have been beaten up on the
streets or forced from their homes."

Immigrants tend to cluster in some areas. In Portadown, Co Armagh, a Filipino
Mass is held once a month in a Catholic church, while more than a thousand
Portuguese-speaking people now live around Dungannon, Co Tyrone. Incidents in
the area include an attack in which a petrol- bomb was thrown at a group of
migrant workers. Migrants say that in general most people are welcoming, but a
significant minority causes them much trouble.

Extra police patrols have been deployed in south Belfast and parts of County
Tyrone to combat the problem, while new legislation allows for stiffer sentences
for crimes motivated by hatred. The law now requires judges to treat crimes
involving race, along with those involving religion, sexual orientation and
disability, as an aggravating factor when passing sentences.The maximum sentence
for violent attacks has been increased from five to seven years, while the
maximum penalty for criminal damage has gone from 10 to 14 years.

Mr Justice Coghlin, a judge in Belfast, said: "It is almost beyond credibility
that after 30 years of sectarian strife this community is now turning itself on
foreign nationals."

John Spellar, a Northern Ireland minister, said the problem was not as bad as in
parts of England, but he added: "I want to make sure we do not go down that
slippery slope by nipping this problem in the bud."

Hardline Protestants and loyalist paramilitary groups, some with connections to
right-wing groups in Britain, have been involved in bomb attacks on blacks and
Chinese.

HATE CRIMES ON THE INCREASE

w October: Attacks on the homes of Turkish and Indian families in Comber, Co
Down. A Polish house attacked and damaged in Londonderry.

w September: A Lithuanian household petrol-bombed in Armagh. This followed an
attack two months earlier on another Lithuanian house in the same street.

w August: A Lithuanian man badly hurt by a gang in Armagh. The following night
his home was petrol-bombed. Portuguese families targeted: two houses damaged in
Dungannon, Co Tyrone. Two families forced out by attacks on their homes in
Portadown, Co Armagh.

w July: Several Asian nurses left a house they were renting in north Belfast,
after being subjected to abuse.

w March: Car belonging to a Brazilian couple burnt and bricks thrown at their
house in Dungannon, Co Tyrone.

w January: Pakistani family, including pregnant woman, targeted just hours after
moving into house in south Belfast.

LOAD-DATE: October 16, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 2004 Independent Print Ltd

                              205 of 301 DOCUMENTS

                               Belfast Telegraph

                                October 18, 2004

Church group's terror during sectarian attack

BYLINE: By Maureen Colemanmcoleman@belfasttelegraph.co.uk

LENGTH: 254 words


Politicians in east Belfast today described a sectarian attack on a group of
teenagers outside the Ice Bowl as "disgraceful" and "horrendous".

The church group was set upon outside the ice rink on Saturday night.

Two windows in their minibus were smashed and members of the group were pushed
and punched as they stepped off the bus.

It is understood the teenagers were mistaken for Catholics. Police are treating
the incident as sectarian.

Condemning the attack DUP councillor Jim White said there was no justifiable
reason.

"This is a horrendous attack. Nobody should be set upon in this way, no matter
what the reason the perpetrators consider appropriate," he said.

"From our point of view Castlereagh has been free of this type of thing for some
time and that's the way we want it to stay.

"Incidents like this don't help in any way and the people who carried it out are
just mindless thugs, whom I totally condemn."

Local Alliance councillor Michael Long called for anyone with information to
contact the police.

"As an Alliance councillor I am particularly horrified that this attack may have
had a sectarian motive," he said.

"It is a tragic indictment of our society that some people continue to object to
Protestant and Catholic teenagers socialising together and it really is time
that these sectarian thugs were dragged out of the dark ages."

Castlereagh Council said Ice Bowl staff did all they could to protect and assist
the teenagers until the police arrived.


LOAD-DATE: October 18, 2004

LANGUAGE: English

TYPE: Paper

                Copyright 2004 Belfast Telegraph Newspapers Ltd.

                              206 of 301 DOCUMENTS

                                  Daily Record

                            October 18, 2004, Monday

WHO'S AFRAID OF THE BOGEY MAN?;
 SINCE SEPTEMBER 11, THE WEST HAS BEEN LIVING IN FEAR OF MORE TERRORIST ATTACKS.
BUT THERE ARE NOW CLAIMS THE THREAT WAS EXAGGERATED AND BIN LADEN'S NOT ALL HE'S
MADE OUT TO BE

BYLINE: By Brian Mciver

SECTION: FEATURES; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 412 words


THE portrayal of al-Qaeda as a worldwide terror network is a myth, it has been
claimed.

And reports of sleeper cells across the globe plotting against the West have
been dismissed as scare stories.

An investigation by an award-winning documentary maker claims the threat from
terrorism has been wildly exaggerated.

Adam Curtis says the idea of al-Qaeda as a well-organised network led by Osama
bin Laden is a fantasy spun by politicians to meet their own ends.

Curtis also claims the nuclear 'dirty bomb' - allegedly the favourite weapon of
terrorists - is not even a scientific possibility.

He added: 'If we keep on thinking the terrorists are a unified evil force
controlled from a cave in Afghanistan by a man stroking a cat, we are actually
making things worse for ourselves, rather than better.

'I'm not saying there isn't terrorism out there. But we've been told continually
for three years that there is a sort of international network of terrorists with
sleeper cells all over the world, waiting to attack.

'I have people very clearly saying that is just not true.'

The claims are made in Curtis's documentary series, The Power Of Nightmares,
which starts this week.

It says that al-Qaeda was 'effectively invented' by the Americans after
September 11 to justify President George Bush's war on terror.

Bush portrayed Bin Laden as the mastermind behind a slick terrorist network with
cells all over the world.

But according to Curtis, he was merely at the centre of a 'loose association of
Islamist militants'.

Curtis added: 'He was not their commander and it was a loose, small grouping.'

The series also reveals how, in the wake of September 11, US authorities
arrested hundreds of foreign nationals reported to be al-Qaeda sleeper cell
agents. They were later released without charge.

And it claims that after the war on terror began, innocent people were captured
by the Northern Alliance in Afghanistan and sold to America as terrorists for
cash.

Curtis further discredits fears that terrorists have 'dirty bombs' at their
disposal.

He insists such weapons would be impossible to make.

Curtis originally set out to make a history of the American neo-conservative
movement and the Middle Eastern Islamist movement.

But when he looked into both sides of the war on terror, he was shocked at what
he found.

# The Power Of Nightmares: The Rise Of The Politics Of Fear starts on BBC2 on
Wednesday.

LOAD-DATE: October 18, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: MOST WANTED: Bin Laden

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

            Copyright 2004 Scottish Daily Record & Sunday Mail Ltd.

                              207 of 301 DOCUMENTS

                            Daily Post (North Wales)

                           October 19, 2004, Tuesday

TERROR ATTACKS AIMED AT BUSH;
 BID TO PREVENT RE-ELECTION

BYLINE: LIAM CHRISTOPHER

SECTION: NW Merseyside Edition; NEWS; Pg. 19

LENGTH: 361 words


RUSSIAN President Vladimir Putin claimed yesterday that terrorists are aiming to
derail President George Bush's chances of re-election through their attacks in
Iraq.

"I consider the activities of terrorists in Iraq are not as much aimed at
coalition forces but more personally against President Bush, " Putin said after
a regional summit in the Tajikistan capital, Dushanbe.

"International terrorism has as its goal to prevent the election of President
Bush to a second term, " he said. "If they achieve that goal, then that will
give international terrorism a new impulse and extra power. "

Still, Putin didn't say which candidate he favoured in the November 2 US
presidential election.

"We unconditionally respect any choice of the American people, " he said. "I
don't want to spoil relations with either candidate. "

Putin also noted his continuing disagreement with Bush on Washington's invasion
of Iraq, which Russia strongly opposed as a permanent member of the UN Security
Council.

"Russia was always against the military operations in Iraq, " he said.

Despite their differences, Bush and Putin have co-operated closely in the
international war on terror, with Russia assenting to the deployment of US
forces in former Soviet Central Asia for operations in neighbouring Afghanistan.
In exchange, Washington has mostly looked the other way on Moscow's continuing
war in breakaway Chechnya, which Russia alleges is being fuelled by
international terror groups.

On his last visit to central Asia in June, Putin appeared to be backing Bush's
assertion that Iraq was a threat, saying at a summit in Kazakhstan that Russia
had notified Washington about intelligence that Saddam Hussein's regime was
preparing attacks in the United States and its interests abroad.

No further details were given, and Putin also said then that the warning didn't
change Moscow's opposition to the Iraq war.

A SENIOR official in the government of Karachayevo-Cherkessiya, in Russia's
restive Caucasus Mountains region, was shot dead by unidentified assailants.

The province has been plagued by frequent contract murders and other violence.

LOAD-DATE: November 16, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Vladimir Putin

TYPE: Newspaper

               Copyright 2004 The Liverpool Daily Post & Echo Ltd

                              208 of 301 DOCUMENTS

                         The Evening Standard (London)

                                October 19, 2004

Scores are feared dead in strike on guard HQ;
WAR ON TERROR MORTAR ATTACK SPARKS NEW FEARS FOR OUR TROOPS IN IRAQ

BYLINE: Joe Murphy;Jason Beattie

SECTION: Pg. 8

LENGTH: 400 words



MORE than 100 Iraqis were killed or wounded in a terrorist attack today as
British troops prepared to move into more dangerous areas.

The victims - members of the Iraqi National Guard, which is meant to take over
security from the USBritish coalition - were hit by mortars in their
headquarters 25 miles north of Baghdad.

US Blackhawk helicopters evacuated the injured after what was thought to be the
worst casualty figures for a single attack since the end of the war to topple
Saddam Hussein-The incident took place away from the area where some 650 British
troops are expected to be deployed under US command near Baghdad.

But it came amid mounting political unrest over the decision to send the Black
Watch battalion, which has been held in reserve to assist in case of attacks in
the British sector around Basra. Downing Street said the attack underlined the
case for sending reinforcements. "We have always said this period was going to
be difficult because those who are against democracy know this is the time to
try to stop the election," said the Prime Minister's official spokesman. "That's
why it's important to do everything we can to help these elections take place."

Earlier, Tory leader Michael Howard piled fresh pressure on the Government by
hinting the Tories would refuse to support the deployment unless given a
"compelling reason" why troops should be put in extra danger. Foreign Secretary
Jack Straw confirmed the Government was "very sympathetic" to the US request,
although he said a decision would not be taken until the end of the week.

He claimed success in the planned operation - a dangerous US mission to seize
control of renegade strongholds in Fallujah - could help British and US forces
leave Iraq "sooner rather than later".

He insisted it was still possible for the Government to say no to the US request
but he admitted that Defence Secretary Geoff Hoon had been right when he
indicated to MPs the Government "was moving to saying yes".

Mr Straw dismissed as "untrue" reports that the Chief of the Defence Staff,
General Sir Michael Walker, was opposing the plans.

. The British Care International charity said its head of operations in Iraq has
been kidnapped in Baghdad.

A spokeswoman said Margaret Hassan, who has been working in Iraq for more than a
decade, was kidnapped today but could give no further details.


LOAD-DATE: October 21, 2004

LANGUAGE: English

GRAPHIC: UNREST: TODAY'S ATTACK COMES AMID CONCERN ABOUT THE BLACK WATCH
BATTALION BEING DEPLOYED NEAR BAGHDAD

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                   Copyright 2004 Associated Newspapers Ltd.

                              209 of 301 DOCUMENTS

                            Evening Times (Glasgow)

                                October 19, 2004

BABY GIRL IN FIGHT FOR LIFE AFTER DOG ATTACK HORROR;Terror as year-old infant is
savaged by family pet

BYLINE: By Deborah Anderson

SECTION: Pg. 1

LENGTH: 114 words


A ONE-YEAR-OLD girl is fighting for life in a Glasgow hospital

after being savaged by an English bull terrier.

The youngster suffered horrific head, face and neck injuries when the animal
attacked and gripped her with its jaws.

The terrifying attack happened at the girl's home in Hamilton, Lanarkshire.

Paramedics rushed to the scene, but realised the child needed immediate

hospital treatment and she was taken

to Yorkhill Hospital For Sick Children

at 1am.

The girl's mother was today at the youngster's bedside and a hospital
spokeswoman said the child, whose

name has not been revealed, "was in

a serious condition".

FULL STORY - PAGE 5

LOAD-DATE: October 20, 2004

LANGUAGE: English

GRAPHIC: ATTACK: an English bull terrier like the one which attacked the baby
girl

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                Copyright 2004 Scottish Media Newspapers Limited

                              210 of 301 DOCUMENTS

                 UK Newsquest Regional Press - This is Bradford

                                October 19, 2004

Terror for pupils as bus attacked

LENGTH: 431 words


Terrified schoolchildren were left cowering in their seats when a young thug
smashed the windows of their bus as they went home.

More than fifty youngsters aged between 11 and 18 from St Bede's Grammar School
in Heaton Bradford escaped unscathed in the frightening attack.

Now police are trying to identify the hooligan who is thought to attend another
school.

The B6 service carrying the pupils was attacked twice in three nights this week
as it took them home.

Both incidents happened at the same place in Queen's Road as the vehicle
operated by First Buses was making its way on its regular school service from
the school to Greengates.

One mother whose 11 year-old son was on the bus told how the first attack
happened on Tuesday afternoon.

She said: "My son phoned on his mobile to say someone had thrown a brick through
the window. Nobody was hurt but the boy sitting next to the window was very
shaken and the children were showered with glass.

"I thought it was a one off but on Thursday my son rang again and said the bus
had been attacked with a hammer.

"A group of youths had pushed a wheelie bin in front of the bus to stop it and
then one of them had gone down the side of the bus smashing all the windows with
a hammer.

"The bus driver ran after them but couldn't catch them. My son was really
frightened and it was terrifying for the children especially the younger ones.

The mum who did not want to be identified for fear of reprisals against her son
added: "I am concerned for the safety of my son and I am not the only ones. The
school is doing what it can but the children aren't safe on the bus."

The journey on Friday passed without incident after police put a number of
officers in the area of the attacks and the school sent a member of staff on the
bus with a car following it.

Headteacher Paul Martin said the school was working closely with the police and
it was thought the youth responsible attended another school.

He said: "There have been suggestions that the person concerned goes to another
school and the police have been there to speak to pupils. We are also working
with the other school to identify this person and solve the problem.

"We want to reassure parents that we are doing all we can to sort out the
situation. We want to find the person responsible and so do the police.

"The safety of the students is paramount. None of the children were injured but
it was terrifying for them."

No one from First Bus who provided the vehicle and driver was available for
comment.

LOAD-DATE: October 19, 2004

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: News

                  Copyright 2004 NewsQuest Media Group Limited

                              211 of 301 DOCUMENTS

                                   Daily Star

                                October 21, 2004

STALKER STABS MARTIN; SOAPER STAR - SICK SARAH IN TERROR ATTACK

BYLINE: by EMILY SAUNDERS

SECTION: U.K. 1st Edition; COLUMNS; Pg. 23

LENGTH: 169 words


ALBERT Square stalker Sarah Cairns's reign of terror reaches a brutal climax
tonight when she stabs Martin Fowler The EastEnders bunny boiler sets out to get
his wife Sonia out of the way.

But she ends up knifing the man she "loves" and leaves him seriously injured.

Psycho Sarah (Alison Pargeter, 33) had already got Martin (James Alexandrou, 19)
arrested for assault.

But her battle to win him over takes a nasty turn when she arrives at Sonia's.

Sarah tells Sonia (Natalie Cassidy, 21) she's been mugged and is invited in.
Then she finally spills the beans to Sonia about her night of passion with
Martin.

Martin bursts in to warn his wife and things get nasty as Sarah flashes a knife.

A soap insider said: "Sarah admits that Martin had passed out and nothing had
really happened between them.

"She lunges towards Sonia, but Martin steps in and takes the blade in the
stomach. Sonia's survival instincts kick in as she struggles to stop Sarah's
attack and save Martin's life."

LOAD-DATE: October 21, 2004

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Newspaper

                       Copyright 2004 Express Newspapers

                              212 of 301 DOCUMENTS



                                   The Mirror

                           October 21, 2004, Thursday

LEAP OF TERROR;
 RAID VICTIM FEARED RAPE ATTACK

BYLINE: KEN BANKS

SECTION: Scots Edition; NEWS; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 178 words

HIGHLIGHT: TERRIFIED: Kyungsim cracked her skull as she tried to escape mugger;
ORDEAL: Kyungsim


A MUGGER who left a student with a cracked skull after she fled by leaping from
a window was caged for three-and-a-half years yesterday.

Kyungsim Chung feared Erik-Lee Cameron - high on drink and drugs and brandishing
a pair of scissors - was going to rape her.

So the 42-year-old risked her life by jumping from her first floor office window
at Aberdeen University.

Aberdeen Sheriff Court heard that the mum-of-two fractured her skull on the road
below and spent several days recov- ering in hospital. Yesterday, she said: "I
thought to myself 'I am not here to be killed'. I thought he might rape me."

Cameron, 19, admitted breaking into the building on Aberdeen High Street in July
and causing her to jump by pointing a pair of scissors at her.

Earlier on the day of the attack, he had assaulted and robbed a man at
knife-point.

Mrs Chung, from South Korea, had been studying late for her PhD in English.

Cameron, who was on bail at the time, also stole cash and a laptop - containing
Mrs Chung's thesis - which has not been recovered.

LOAD-DATE: October 21, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                            Copyright 2004 MGN Ltd.

                              213 of 301 DOCUMENTS

                                Evening Gazette

                            October 22, 2004, Friday

GANG'S TERROR ATTACK ON CAR

BYLINE: RON LIVINGSTONE

SECTION: Final Edition; NEWS LOCAL; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 348 words


A Middlesbrough-born man returned to Teesside - only to have his motorbike
stolen twice and his car attacked by a missile-hurling gang.

Mark Ford, 42, who left the Navy two years ago before working in the Balkans,
never felt a victim before returning to his native Teesside.

He and his Croatian-born wife Ellie were travelling in his white BMW in
Roseberry Road, Redcar, on Wednesday night when a stone was hurled through the
driver's window - showering them both in shards of glass.

He now said they are considering quitting Teesside.

The incident happened just before 9pm.

Mr Ford, a fitter, said: "It was a very frightening experience for both of us.
When I got out of the car they were standing there taunting me. They were even
firing rockets in our direction.

"My wife was terrified. There was a pack of ten or 15 of them.

"Another woman stopped and said it had happened to her. She had called the
police as well and they were there very quickly.

"We were going to see my niece - we never got there. I just left the Navy two
years ago. I've been all over the world including Croatia but I've never had
anything like this happen to me anywhere. I never felt a victim until I came
back to Teesside.

"I had my motorbike stolen twice and now this has happened. This is the third
incident in just over six months. I'm seriously contemplating moving on."

Some youths have been questioned by police in relation to the incident. Anyone
with information should contact Sgt Mick Jackson, of Redcar police, on 01642
302626. The incident is the third stoning in a week.

A bus driver was treated in hospital for a gash to his wrist after the cab
window was smashed in Ennis Square, Dormanstown, at about 11.15pm on Sunday.

And a passenger was left badly shaken when a hooded teenage vandal hurled a
hammer through a bus window in Middlesbrough.

In that incident on Friday the bus was being driven along Ingram Road, Berwick
Hills, when it was attacked at 7.40pm.

* Anyone who sees someone hurling missiles at vehicles should ring 01642 326326.

LOAD-DATE: October 22, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Newspaper

                    Copyright 2004 Gazette Media Company Ltd

                              214 of 301 DOCUMENTS

                               St Helens Reporter

                                October 22, 2004

Terror attack

SOURCE: St Helens Reporter

LENGTH: 442 words


A TAXI driver was smashed in the face five times with a brick during a brutal
robbery in St Helens town centre.


Retired police officer Phillip Royle suffered a catalogue of horrific injuries
when a man and woman posing as customers attacked him.


The pair also threatened to slit the 53-year-old's throat during the raid, which
took place in the early hours of Saturday morning.


Mr Royle, a police officer for 30-years, suffered severe head wounds, a torn ear
and bruising to his eye and face.


He said: "I thought I was going to be killed - there was nothing I could have
done to stop them cutting my throat."


His ordeal began when he picked up a man and woman in their early 20s from
outside a house on Vincent Street at around 1am.


The man jumped into the front seat, while his female accomplice climbed into the
back, and asked to be taken to Argyle Street.


Mr Royle, from Sutton, said: "There was nothing to raise my suspicions, neither
of them smelled of drink or appeared to be on drugs. When we got to Argyle
Street they asked to be dropped off at the last house. I stopped and turned on
the inside lights and as I did, the woman started to get out of the car.


"That caught my attention and as I turned to the left, the man hit me full in
the face with a large brick or similar object. He hit me about four or five
times.


"I defended myself and managed to grab his hand, but he started shouting, 'Give
me the money, give me the money or I'll kill you'.


"Then he shouted to the woman, 'cut his throat'. I was terrified. I had my seat
belt on and had no way of defending myself if she'd reached round from behind
with a knife, but instead she went round to the driver's side and grabbed at the
money."


The pair then escaped with a small amount of cash, leaving their victim barely
conscious.


Mr Royle added: "I was with the police for 30 years and investigated murders -
but this was as brutal an assault as anything I ever dealt with.


"It was pre-meditated - you don't carry a brick around with you. I'll have to
sit and think now about whether I'll return to work."


Police have launched a major investigation to catch both suspects.


Det Insp Steve Lowe said: "This was a particularly vicious attack on a man who
was simply doing his job, and the consequences of it could have been much
worse."


The offenders are described as white and aged 20 to 21. The man was slim, with a
narrow, clean-shaven face and sharp, pointed features. He was wearing a white
baseball cap and a light coloured bomber jacket and dark jeans.


LOAD-DATE: October 23, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                       Copyright 2004 Johnston Press Plc

                              215 of 301 DOCUMENTS

                UK Newsquest Regional Press - This is Lancashire

                                October 22, 2004

Ambulance chiefs praised for terror attack alerts

LENGTH: 401 words


PREPARATIONS in Greater Manchester for a major incident are among the best in
Britain according to a Bolton MP.

Dr Brian Iddon praised Greater Manchester Ambulance Service for its readiness
saying it has the ability to cope with a chemical biological or radiological
incident.

He was told the service had trained more than 375 front-line staff in dealing
with chemical incidents.

Ambulance bosses also told him that protective clothing and equipment had been
supplied to their staff and those who would be involved from other
organisations. They were also regularly receiving refresher training.

Dr Iddon MP for Bolton South-east is a member of the cross-party Science and
Technology Select Committee in the House of Commons and he made his comments
after questioning senior GMAS directors.

They came just a week after the Bolton Emergency Response Group Forum announced
it would use text messages to alert shops and businesess in Bolton to any
terrorist incidents.

Plans have been drawn up as to how the town centre would be evacuated if it were
necessary.

The town centre has been split into zones which would allow only affected areas
to be shut down.

Emergency planning officer for Bolton Council Barbara Mockridge said regular
exercises were held to test the evacuation plan. A drive to get as many shops
and businessess as possible involved in the text messaging system is under way.

The emergency response forum is an organisation involving Bolton Council police
fire and ambulance NHS primary care trusts community safety teams and the Bolton
Town Centre Company.

Dr Iddon said: "Greater Manchester Ambulance Service was recently made a three
star service -- the only urban ambulance trust to be marked so highly.

"I was very pleased this was reflected in the way the service has prepared for a
major incident.

"It reflects the hard work and thorough planning that is put into the service
and I left the meeting with confidence in what I had heard."

Derek Cartwright GMAS director of operations said: "We have trained a great
number of our staff and managers in how to deal with chemical incidents and are
one of the most prepared ambulance services in the country."

GMAS managers recently travelled to Toulouse in France to see how the city coped
with a devastating explosion just days after the September 11 attacks in New
York.

LOAD-DATE: October 22, 2004

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: News

                  Copyright 2004 NewsQuest Media Group Limited

                              216 of 301 DOCUMENTS

                         The Sunday Telegraph (LONDON)

                            October 24, 2004, Sunday

Floating boom will protect Commons from terrorist attack

BYLINE: BY PATRICK HENNESSY Political Editor

SECTION: News; Pg. 04

LENGTH: 238 words

ELECTRIC fences and a floating barrage in the Thames will protect MPs and peers
from a terrorist attack, it emerged last night.

A report by MI5 and the Metropolitan Police reveals plans to turn Parliament
into a fortress within months. The proposals have already been approved by a
joint Commons and Lords committee on security.

The report has not been published but leaked copies suggest that a single
powerful official will take charge of security in a blow to the authority of
Serjeant at Arms and Black Rod.

Electric fencing will protect large areas of the Palace of Westminster which are
accessible to the public, including the St Stephen's clock tower that was scaled
this year by Greenpeace protesters.

A barrage in the Thames will prevent terrorists sending a boat laden with
explosives into the side of the building, while roadblocks will protect against
lorry bombs.

In other measures, all 14,000 pass holders, including the Prime Minister and
senior Cabinet ministers, will have to wear their badges at all times, while
CCTV will be extended to cover all areas of the Commons.

A permanent bullet-proof screen will cover the whole of the public gallery in
the Commons, including areas which are at present used by peers.

Some hardline proposals have, however, been rejected, including suggestions that
the public should be banned entirely from some areas of the Commons where they
have access at present.

LOAD-DATE: October 24, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 2004 The Telegraph Group Limited

                              217 of 301 DOCUMENTS

                             The Gloucester Citizen

                                October 25, 2004

Kids screamed in terror at vicious attack on teen

SECTION: News; Courts; YouthCourt; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 300 words


The Young women occupants of a maisonette and their two small children screamed
in terror when a 10-strong gang of angry teenagers converged on their home in
Stonehouse.  The mob was bent on teaching another young man a lesson because
they suspected him of trying to break into their friend's flat, city youth
magistrates were told.

But the 17-year-old ringleader of the gang was arrested after bursting into the
home with one of his mates and launching "a ferocious and frightening attack" on
his enemy. The 17-year-old pleaded guilty to affray, common assault and using
violence to secure entry.

Prosecuting solicitor Liz Thomas said: "The front door was kicked in and the
defendant along with another youth burst into a bedroom to attack the victim on
his bed.

"This was a ferocious and frightening attack and the two young women and two
small children were terrified. The children were screaming in terror." The
defendant said: "My mates came along to support me as the bloke who tried to
break into my family's home is known to the police and can be quite violent. He
uses a knife.

"The others waited outside while me and my mate went inside. I realise I was
wrong and I should have telephoned the police instead of taking the law into my
own hands." Defending solicitor Clare Malvern-White added: "My client was out
working nights and when he came home his father told him he heard a young man he
recognised trying his door handle.

"He was trying to protect his family but acted very foolishly. The red mist got
hold of him and things got out of hand.

"But my client came off worse as the victim's brother hit him over the head with
a cricket bat." Magistrates imposed a 12-month referral order and ordered the
teenager to pay £50 compensation to his victim.


LOAD-DATE: October 26, 2004

LANGUAGE: English

                     Copyright 2004 The Gloucester Citizen

                              218 of 301 DOCUMENTS

                              The Star (Sheffield)

                                October 25, 2004

Terror of attacks by baby-faced robbers

SOURCE: The Star (Sheffield)

LENGTH: 408 words


FOUR baby-faced robbers who toured Sheffield suburbs in a van looking for
victims to beat up and rob have been locked up for a total of 13 years.


Sheffield Crown Court heard the terrifying, motiveless attacks happened within
hours of each other in suburbs from Hillsborough to Walkley to Crookes.


John Price, aged 20, Ryan Spencer, 17, and John McCr-eady, 18, were all locked
up for three years. Wade Margrim, 16, received four years.


All admitted conspiracy to rob except Margrim, of Palgrave Road, Southey Green,
who also admitted three robberies and two counts of driving while banned.


Prosecutor Ian Skelt said three of the offences happened during the night of
March 27 when the defendants set off in a Ford Transit van looking for victims.


They spotted their first - a 17-year-old lad walking home from an 18th birthday
party in Hillsborough - at 11.30pm.


He moved out of the way when three of the youths approached, but was knocked to
the ground and dragged into an alley where the thugs demanded money. He was
punched in the face and his mobile phone was grabbed.


Margrim admitted taking part in the attack while Price, of Halliwell Crescent,
Parson Cross, encouraged him.


Minutes later a student and his friend riding a BMX bike were stopped by the van
on School Road in Crookes.


One of the gang got out and punched the cyclist in the mouth, knocking the pair
to the ground, before stealing the bike and throwing it into the back of the
van.


Margrim, along with Spencer, of Yew Lane, Parson Cross, and McCready, of
Redmires Lane, Lodge Moor, admitted taking part.


Fifteen minutes later the gang struck again on South Road in Walkley, when three
of the youths asked a man at a bus stop if he had any pills. He was hit on the
head and sear-ched as he lay on the ground.


A week later, on April 4, Margrim was one of two youths who approached a man in
Crosspool. He was told: "Empty your pockets or I will stab you" before he was
chased and knocked to the ground.


Margrim, 15 at the time and already banned from driving, was arrested four days
later. He had a previous conviction for assault.


Price - who the prosecution said had pointed to one victim and shouted "we're
having him" - was described as "very immature" with "limited intelligence". He
denied a knife was used in the Crosspool robbery and said he never left the van.


LOAD-DATE: October 26, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                       Copyright 2004 Johnston Press Plc

                              219 of 301 DOCUMENTS

                               Belfast Telegraph

                                October 26, 2004

Gardai probe terror link as attack victim found in ditch

BYLINE: By Paul Dykesnewsdesk@belfasttelegraph.co.uk

LENGTH: 172 words


Gardai are today investigating a suspected terrorist link in an attack that left
a Belfast man beaten and concussed in a ditch near Monaghan.

The victim, who has not been identified, was taken to Cavan General Hospital
after being found at about 10.30pm on Sunday on a remote country road about 10
miles south of the border.

A Garda spokesman said that the victim was aged 40 and from Belfast but would
not elaborate on the circumstances surrounding the attack.

It is believed at least two men were seen by a passer-by beating the victim on
the road near Gallinagh just outside Monaghan town.

Gardai were called and found the man slumped in a roadside ditch.

After treatment at Cavan hospital, the victim was discharged, a matron said
today.

Speculation about the assault has focused on dissendent paramilitary groups and
the Provisional IRA.

No group has claimed responsibility for the attack.

There was also concern the victim had been transported across the border before
being assaulted.


LOAD-DATE: October 26, 2004

LANGUAGE: English

TYPE: Paper

                Copyright 2004 Belfast Telegraph Newspapers Ltd.

                              220 of 301 DOCUMENTS

                               The Times (London)

                           October 26, 2004, Tuesday

Rushing to prevent another terror attack won't work

BYLINE: Bronwen Maddox

SECTION: Features; 34

LENGTH: 579 words


PRESIDENT BUSH'S showiest response to the national shock of September 11 may
fall completely flat, it now seems.

This week, relatives of those who died that day have been pleading with him to
put into practice at least some of the recommendations of the 9/11 Commission.
The President, who is keen to do so by the time of the election a week today,
has been urging Congress to pass the Bill.

But so far, nothing doing. Since a serious push began on Wednesday, the House of
Representatives and the Senate are deadlocked. Taking the White House's
direction that "something must be done", they have each crafted versions of the
Bill thatare starkly incompatible.

The Senate is wary of the Pentagon, the House indulgent. But the heart of the
problem is that both versions conspire in the political fiction that future
attacks can and should be stopped, and that melding together the US's 15
separate spy agencies is the way to do it.

"To me, the (message of 9/11 is) that intelligence is never going to be good
enough to get these things before they happen", says one senior member of the
Administration, sceptical, he says, of most of the proposed reforms.

The impetus for this last-minute Bill is the 567-page report by the 9/11
Commission, a bipartisan committee set up by the Administration. The text has
become a surprise bestseller with more than a million copies sold, and is now a
contender for the National Book Award's non-fiction prize, one of the US's top
literary awards.

This is deserved: as an official document, it is astonishing, in parts like a
thriller, interleaved with an erudite yet crisp summary of the roots of Islamic
militancy.

Its weakness is the final chapter on recommendations. It urges spy agencies to
work together better, and to be more original, both vacuous exhortations. Its
main practical recommendation is to replace the current Director of Central
Intelligence with a new National Intelligence Director, to pull together work
across the country.

The Senate version is closer to the Commission's original notion, creating a
post that would oversee all the agencies. Critics say that the reforms are
emptier than they sound, in that the President has already put many of the
measures into effect by executive order.

But the House has devised a version where the national intelligence director
would be a figurehead, clearly dominated in practice by the Pentagon. Critics
argue that this could do real damage, by splitting the Department of National
Intelligence from the CIA.

"The reform bill is terrible," said one senior member of the Administration. "It
fixes the only thing that isn't broken" -the important divisions between some
agencies. "It centralises too much", he argued.

Anthony Cordesman, of the Washington-based Centre for Strategic and
International Studies, agreed that "The more (of the bill) that doesn't go
through, the better".

The main use of the new post, he suggested, is that "if you want a future
scapegoat for future failures, it may be useful".

But he argued that when trying to reform "what is, in effect, a $ 40 billion
corporation with 10,000 people...trying to give it central direction doesn't
make sense".

He added: "You do not fix government by forming an organisational chart, ever."

Given those flaws, in both the versions, many on both sides feel the worst
outcome is for Congress to unblock its logjam and deliver Bush a bill to sign by
Tuesday.


LOAD-DATE: October 26, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                    Copyright 2004 Times Newspapers Limited

                              221 of 301 DOCUMENTS

                         The Evening Standard (London)

                                October 29, 2004

Terror video pledges attacks on US

BYLINE: JOE MURPHY

SECTION: A_MERGE; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 277 words


OSAMA BIN LADEN'S terrorist group today threatened to make America's streets
"run red with blood" in a new video timed to coincide with the US election.

A shrouded man with an American accent warns: "Now it is your turn to die," in
the film which the CIA is examining and reportedly believes to be genuine.

Describing himself as "Assam the American", he claims to be an agent of Bin
Laden's al Qaeda network. He praises the September 11 attackers and hints at
revenge if President Bush is re-elected next week.

"What took place on September 11 was but the opening salvo of the global war on
America and, our Lord willing, the magnitude and ferocity of what is coming your
way will make you forget all about September 11," he states during decades of
American tyranny, now it's your turn to die.

"You are guilty. You're as guilty as Bush and Cheney.

You're as guilty as Rumsfeld and Ashcroft and Powell."

He goes on: "The streets of America shall run red with blood, matching drop for
drop the blood of America's victims," and adds that America will "mourn in
silence because they will be unable to count the number of the dead".

The video was obtained by ABC News from a contact in Pakistan. The station said
it paid $500 for the tape which bears the logo of al Qaeda's usual video
production house, As-Sahab.

There was no official confirmation from intelligence agencies that the tape was
genuine and officials said they had not yet identified the speaker.

But there was speculation the chief suspect was a Californian man who had
converted to Islam, someone the CIA said had been trained at a terrorist camp in
Afghanistan.

LOAD-DATE: November 1, 2004

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                   Copyright 2004 Associated Newspapers Ltd.

                              222 of 301 DOCUMENTS



                                   The Mirror

                            October 29, 2004, Friday

TERROR ATTACK WAS NOT A KIDNAP PLOT;
 POLICE REJECT DUP CLAIMS ON SHOOTING

BYLINE: KEVIN MCDONNELL

SECTION: Ulster Edition; NEWS; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 458 words

HIGHLIGHT: SHOOTING: Burnt out Seat van found in Randalstown after the attack;
CLAIM: Ian Paisley


SECURITY sources last night dismissed claims terrorists had planned to abduct a
police officer during a gun attack on a station.

The DUP's Ian Paisley Jr said the shooting in Randalstown, Co Antrim, was
carried out by terrorists intent on killing or abducting a police officer.

Four shots were fired from a stolen Seat van as it drove past the police station
on Wednesday.

But a security source said Mr Paisley's claims were "without any foundation
whatsoever".

The shooting at Randalstown Police Station came after a family had been held
hostage by the gang responsible for the gun attack.

The armed terrorists stole the terrified family's van to mount the drive-by
shooting.

But Mr Paisley has refused to accept suggestions that the gun assault was an
amateur attack on the PSNI.

He said: "The demeanour and professionalism of the terror gang and their
forensic awareness all point to the fact that a much more serious and sinister
attack was being planned.

"I believe that terrorists were frustrated in an effort to attack, abduct or
murder a police officer in the village and that once that effort became
frustrated the gang shot up the village police station.

"No doubt a full police investigation will follow and forensics into the gun
traces should be a priority.

"Those tests will point to the previous use of the weapon and I believe will
indicate that it is possessed by republicans. No doubt it will be written off as
a dissident attack."

Last night a young family were still recovering from their ordeal after being
held hostage by the masked gang.

They burst into the home in Craigstown Road at around 8pm and demanded the keys
to a van and held the family of five at gunpoint.

The couple and their children, aged between five and seven, and a young cousin,
were locked in a room.

Some of the thugs left in the vehicle and headed for the police station.

A van, which police believe may be the one used in the shooting, was later found
burnt out in the town's Creggan Road.

Inspector Pat Foy said it was fortunate there were no casualties.

He added: "This attack was totally indiscriminate and reckless. Police officers
were in the station at the time and there was passing traffic in this
residential area."

Donovan McClelland, a SDLP councillor for the area, hit out at the attack.

He said: "This was a deeply sinister and disturbing sequence of events. It was
obviously a very traumatic experience for the family who were held hostage.

"It's also extremely fortunate that no one was injured or killed."

Detectives have appealed for anyone who witnessed a white van on New Street or
Creggan Road between 10pm and 11pm to contact them.

ulster@ mirror.co.uk

LOAD-DATE: October 29, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                            Copyright 2004 MGN Ltd.

                              223 of 301 DOCUMENTS

                           Coventry Evening Telegraph

                           October 30, 2004, Saturday

BIN LADEN ADMITS TERROR ATTACK VIDEO MESSAGE: Osama bin Laden

SECTION: Nuneaton Edition; NEWS; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 77 words


TERRORIST Osama Bin Laden has released a new video in which he admits for the
first time that he carried out the September 11 attacks.

Days before the US presidential election, the Arab television station Al-Jazeera
has broadcast the tape of bin Laden, who directly criticises President George W
Bush.

It is the first footage of the al-Qaida leader to surface in more than a year
and in it he taunts the US president for his failure to capture him.

LOAD-DATE: November 1, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

                   Copyright 2004 Coventry Newspapers Limited

                              224 of 301 DOCUMENTS

                           Coventry Evening Telegraph

                           October 30, 2004, Saturday

BIN LADEN ADMITS TERROR ATTACK VIDEO MESSAGE: Osama bin Laden

SECTION: City Final Edition; NEWS; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 100 words


TERRORIST Osama Bin Laden has released a new video in which he admits for the
first time that he carried out the September 11 attacks.

Days before the US presidential election, the Arab television station Al-Jazeera
has broadcast the tape of bin Laden, who directly criticises President George W
Bush.

In a chilling threat, the terrorist leader tells the American public: "Bush is
still deceiving you and hiding the truth from you and therefore the reasons are
still there to repeat what happened."

It is the first footage of the al-Qaida leader to surface in more than a year.

LOAD-DATE: November 1, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

                   Copyright 2004 Coventry Newspapers Limited

                              225 of 301 DOCUMENTS

                           Coventry Evening Telegraph

                           October 30, 2004, Saturday

BIN LADEN ADMITS 9/11 TERROR ATTACK;
 EXPERTS BELIEVE LATEST TAPE WAS MADE RECENTLY NEW MESSAGE: Osama bin Laden on
the video broadcast by Al-Jazeera yesterday

SECTION: City Final Edition; NEWS; Pg. 17

LENGTH: 259 words


TERRORIST Osama Bin Laden has apparently appeared in a video admitting for the
first time that he carried out the September 11 attacks.

Days before the US presidential election, the Arab television station Al-Jazeera
yesterday broadcast a video of bin Laden, directly admitting for the first time
that he carried out the September 11 attacks and criticising President George W
Bush.

It was the first footage of the al-Qaida leader to surface in more than a year.

Bin Laden has taunted the United States in a series of video messages released
since the attacks on the World Trade Centre in New York.

Government officials believe the latest tape of Osama bin Laden was made
recently and are trying to determine whether its release now may be a signal of
an impending attack.

Intelligence experts have determined the tape that aired yesterday "lacks what
we assess to be an explicit threat and reiterates well-worn themes," said one US
official, who spoke on condition of anonymity.

The Bush administration, however, did not plan to raise the nation's threat
level for now, White House spokesman Scott McClellan said.

Analysts have been able to determine with a "high degree of confidence" that the
voice and image on the 18-minute tape are of bin Laden, the US official said.

Among indications that the video was made recently, the US official noted that
bin Laden mentions that it's been three years since September 11, 2001, and that
US deaths in Iraq have reached 1,000. That milestone was reached in early
September.

LOAD-DATE: November 1, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

                   Copyright 2004 Coventry Newspapers Limited

                              226 of 301 DOCUMENTS

                                  Daily Record

                           October 30, 2004, Saturday

BIN LADEN BACK;
 # HE ADMITS TO 9/11 ATTACK # NEW TERROR THREAT TO US

BYLINE: By John Mceachran

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 1, 6

LENGTH: 495 words


OSAMA BIN LADEN finally admitted responsibility for September 11 last night -
and threatened America with more terror attacks.

Just days before the US presidential election, a video from the al-Qaeda leader
was shown on Arab TV station al-Jazeera.

In an apparent bid to turn voters against president George Bush, bin Laden
accused him of failing to protect the victims of September 11. He compared the
Bush administration to 'corrupt' Arab regimes. And he claimed the president had
been misleading his people since the attacks.

In a chilling threat to the US, bin Laden said: 'Bush is still deceiving you and
hiding the truth from you, and therefore the reasons are still there to repeat
what happened.'

Bin Laden stood at a lectern in front of a plain brown cloth backdrop and read
his message from papers in front of him.

He promised to tell America 'the best way to avoid another Manhattan'. He said:
'We decided to destroy towers in America out of frustration over what many Arabs
see as America's pro-Israeli Middle East policies.'

Last night, Bush's administration said they believed the video was authentic and
had been made recently.

But White House press secretary Scott McClellan said they did not plan to raise
the nation's 'threat level'.

Bush said Americans would not be intimidated - and John Kerry, his Democratic
rival in Tuesday's election, pledged to 'hunt down and destroy' bin Laden.

Alert In the tape, bin Laden claimed the 2001 attacks would have been less
severe if Bush had been alert.

He said: 'It never occurred to us that the commander in chief of the country
would leave 50,000 citizens in the two towers to face those horrors alone.'

Bin Laden said that, on September 11, Bush had been more interested in 'a child
discussing her goats'.

The president was listening to children read at a school when told of the
attacks.

Terrorist mastermind bin Laden has praised the September 11 hijackers before.

But last night was the first time he had directly admitted responsibility for
the atrocity. He said he came up with the idea of attacking skyscrapers when he
saw Israeli jets bombing towers in Lebanon in 1982.

Bin Laden said the 9/11 attacks were ordered because 'we are a free people ...
and we want to regain the freedom of our nation'.

He said the 'best way to avoid another disaster' was to avoid provoking Arabs.

And in what seemed to be an endorsement of Kerry, he added: 'Liberals do not
neglect their security, contradicting Bush, who says that we hate freedom.'

Bin Laden told America: 'Your security is not in the hands of Kerry or Bush or
al-Qaeda.Your security is in your own hands.'

Experts said bin Laden could be disappointed if he really hopes to help defeat
Bush. Kerry is unlikely to benefit from the support of a mass murderer.

About a minute of the five-minute tape was shown. It was the first video of bin
Laden to have emerged in more than a year.

LOAD-DATE: October 30, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: NEW VIDEO: Osama bin Laden; CHILLING: Osama bin Laden in the first new
footage of him for more than a year; TAUNTED: George Bush yesterday

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

            Copyright 2004 Scottish Daily Record & Sunday Mail Ltd.

                              227 of 301 DOCUMENTS

                                  Daily Record

                           October 30, 2004, Saturday

BIN LADEN ADMITS TO 9/11 ATTACK;
 TERROR CHIEF IN NEW VIDEO DAYS BEFORE US ELECTION

BYLINE: By John Mceachran

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 426 words


OSAMA BIN LADEN finally admitted responsibility for September 11 last night, and
threatened America with more terror attacks.

Days before Tuesday's US presidential election, a video from the al-Qaeda leader
was shown on Arab TV station al-Jazeera.

It appeared to be an attempt to turn voters against president George Bush.

Bin Laden taunted Bush, accusing him of failing to protect the victims of
September 11.

He compared the Bush administration to 'corrupt' Arab regimes. And he claimed
the president had been 'misleading' his people in the years since the attacks.

In a chilling threat to the US, bin Laden added: 'Bush is still deceiving you
and hiding the truth from you, and therefore the reasons are still there to
repeat what happened.'

Bin Laden stood at a lectern in front of a plain brown cloth background and read
his message from papers in front of him.

He promised to tell Americans 'the best way to avoid another Manhattan'.

Bin Laden said: 'We decided to destroy towers in America out of frustration over
what many Arabs see as America's pro-Israeli Middle East policies.

'It never occurred to us that the commander in chief of the country would leave
50,000 citizens in the two towers to face those horrors alone.'

Bin Laden said that, on September 11, Bush had been more interested in 'a child
discussing her goats'. The president was listening to children read at a school
when he was told of the attacks.

The terrorist mastermind has praised the September 11 hijackers before. But last
night was the first time he had directly admitted responsibility for the
atrocity.

He said he came up with the idea of attacking skyscrapers when he saw US jets
bombing tower blocks in Lebanon in 1982.

Bin Laden said the attack was ordered because 'we are a free people ... and we
want to regain the freedom of our nation'.

He said the 'best way to avoid another disaster' was to avoid provoking Arabs.
And in what seemed to be an endorsement of Bush's Democrat rival John Kerry, he
added: 'Liberals do not neglect their security, contradicting Bush,who says that
we hate freedom.'

Bin Laden told America: 'Your security is not in the hands of Kerry or Bush or
al-Qaeda.Your security is in your own hands.'

Experts said bin Laden could be disappointed if he really hopes to help defeat
Bush. Kerry is highly unlikely to benefit from the support of a mass murderer.

About a minute of the five-minute tape was shown. It was the first video of bin
Laden to have emerged in more than a year.

LOAD-DATE: October 30, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: TAUNTED: George Bush yesterday; CHILLING: Osama bin Laden in the first
new footage of him for more than a year

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

            Copyright 2004 Scottish Daily Record & Sunday Mail Ltd.

                              228 of 301 DOCUMENTS

                       EVENING CHRONICLE (Newcastle, UK)

                      October 30, 2004, Saturday Edition 1

Dad's revenge terror attacks

BYLINE: By Brenda Hickman, The Evening Chronicle

SECTION: NEWS, Pg. 5

LENGTH: 617 words


   Vengeful father Michael Pratt terrorised social workers following a hearing
involving his children.

In a fit of rage, Pratt, 51, targeted two cars by cutting the brake pipes, one
owned by a male social worker in the case, and the other vehicle belonging to an
administrative clerk. The car was parked outside her office in Walker,
Newcastle.

Not content with potentially endangering their lives, Pratt made further
attempts to get back at the authorities by setting the Wincomblee Social
Services office alight in Newcastle's East End in January.

And he shoved lit papers through a window of Gosforth Magistrates' Court after
breaking the pane in another midnight attack.

Fortunately, the fire failed to take hold and it was soon spotted and
extinguished.

Pratt, of Greencroft Avenue, Daisy Hill, Walker, had been convicted of four
offences on September 3 following a Newcastle Crown Court trial.

Pratt's temper flared during a hearing at Gosforth Magistrates' Court in
January.

An usher heard a conversation which led police to suspect Pratt had been
responsible for cutting the brake pipe on the social worker's car, which had
been parked outside the West Avenue premises in Gosforth.

Detectives searched Pratt's home and found a notebook containing names and
addresses of social workers and teachers.

Pratt had told them he had taken the details from the phone book but it is not
known what he had intended to do with the information.

Evidence gathered by Det Con Jane McLean, the officer in charge of case, led to
Pratt's arrest on June 29 and the charges which followed.

Police also recovered a knife which held traces of brake fluid.

Today a Newcastle city council spokeswoman said: "We are grateful that these
dangerous and frightening incidents are in the past.

"We want to look to the future and continue to build good relationships with
every user of our services, no matter how difficult the circumstances."

Pratt's offences involved one count of damaging property with intent to endanger
life on January 8, when he cut the brake pipe on a Volkswagen Polo car owned by
Thomas Rice, and also damaging the car's windscreen and tyres.

A second charge involved severing the brake pipe of Jacqueline Elliott's Ford
Focus car a day later, with intent to endanger life.

The arson offence happened on January 12 at the social services office in
Walker, and the attempted arson at Gosforth Magistrates' Court was on January
14.

Pratt had been due to be sentenced at Durham Crown Court yesterday but Judge
John Milford QC adjourned the case until the week of November 29 for further
reports. Social services staff were left shaken by the arson attack on their
offices.

The firebomb was thrown through the window at around 1am and it destroyed
computers and caused smoke damage to the room.

Toxic fumes were caused by the plastic around the computers burning, but the
blaze was put out quickly.

Coun John O'Shea, Labour cabinet member for Newcastle Council social services
care at the time, said as he surveyed the damage: "I was very saddened to hear
that one of our social services offices had been targeted in an arson attack.

"The quick response of the fire service prevented the damage being any worse.

"My concern is for social services staff at Walker who must feel shocked and
vulnerable that their place of work has been attacked.

"Fortunately, no member of staff or the public were injured in this incident.

"Newcastle social services work with people across the whole community to
provide support, doing a difficult and sensitive job.

"The Walker office is a very busy unit providing a wide range of social care
services to the local community."

LOAD-DATE: November 9, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                Copyright 2004 Newcastle Chronicle & Journal Ltd

                              229 of 301 DOCUMENTS



                                   The Mirror

                           October 30, 2004, Saturday

BIN LADEN ADMITS 9/11 TERROR ATTACK

SECTION: Ulster Slip Edition; NEWS; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 173 words

HIGHLIGHT: WARNING: Bin Laden


OSAMA bin Laden last night admitted for the first time that he was behind the
September 11 terror attacks.

And in a video broadcast by Arab TV station Al Jazeera, he threatened more
attacks against US targets - promising to outline "the best way to avoid another
Manhattan".

He also accused President Bush of "misleading" the American people since the
2001 suicide airline hijackings that hit New York's World Trade Center and the
Pentagon.

AlJazeera, based in Qatar, did not say how it had received the tape. The channel
has previously broadcast audio and video tapes from members of al-Qaeda.

It was the first footage of the al-Qaeda leader to surface in more than a year.
In the video, below, bin Laden also criticised US President George W Bush and
referred to next week's US presidential election. "We decided to destroy towers
in America," said bin Laden speaking calmly and forcefully.

He said the attack was carried out because "we are a free people... and we want
to regain the freedom of our nation".

LOAD-DATE: October 30, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                            Copyright 2004 MGN Ltd.

                              230 of 301 DOCUMENTS

                         The Sunday Telegraph (LONDON)

                            October 31, 2004, Sunday

'Nothing more sinister than a grainy video' The fact that Osama bin Laden is
issuing threats not implementing terror attacks suggests that the war on
al-Qaeda has been more successful than most people imagined, writes CON COUGHLIN

BYLINE: By CON COUGHLIN

SECTION: News; International; Pg. 22

LENGTH: 910 words

Not so much the October surprise as September remembered. Or September 11, 2001,
to be precise. For weeks Democrats have been wondering aloud whether the Bush
camp might use the final month of the presidential election campaign to reveal
that Osama bin Laden, the architect of the devastating 9/11 attacks had been
finally apprehended.

The Democrats, after all, were the original target of the October Surprise
conspiracy theory when in 1980 Ronald Reagan, the Republican candidate, accused
the then President Jimmy Carter of trying to negotiate a secret deal to secure
the release of the American embassy hostages held in Iran days before Americans
went to the polls.

More recently security officials have been publicly worrying whether bin Laden
was planning to revisit the scene of the most devastating terrorist attack of
modern times, by carrying out what the IRA used to call a "spectacular" on the
American mainland.

In fact, bin Laden was able to produce nothing more sinister than a grainy video
footage of him giving a rambling discourse about the lessons the American people
have failed to learn from the World Trade Center attack.

Just how much impact bin Laden's tape will have on voting intentions at this
late stage in the election campaign will be revealed in the early hours of
Wednesday morning when the exit polls reveal the identity of the likely victor.
With President Bush and Senator John Kerry, the Democratic challenger, running
almost neck and neck in the polls, any intervention that sways voters either way
could be decisive.

American intelligence analysts yesterday said that they believed that this
latest tape, the first to feature bin Laden himself for more than a year, was
recorded last Sunday. The tape was dropped at the main gate of Al-Jazeera's
office in the Pakistan capital, Islamabad. Ahmed Zaidan, Al-Jazeera's bureau
chief, is personally known to bin Laden and he has met him several times both
before and since the September 11 attacks. After the tape was delivered, the
bureau received a call from a satellite telephone asking whether it had been
safely received. The tape was 18 minutes long, but only between 13 and 14
minutes were broadcast. "It was just camera positioning and so on that was left
out," said a spokesman.

Unlike previous tapes where bin Laden is dressed in camouflage fatigues and is
brandishing an AK-47 assault rifle, on this occasion he is dressed in
traditional Arabic dress and is reading from a lectern.

British intelligence officials last night confirmed that they had no doubts that
the tape was authentic, and said that the tape would be studied in forensic
detail for any clues it might provide about bin Laden's whereabouts or his state
of mind.

The basic gist of bin Laden's latest contribution is that the American people
have not learned their lesson from the 9/11 attacks and, as a consequence,
should prepare themselves for more of the same. Advising them on how to "avoid
another Manhattan", bin Laden provides the rather bizarre example of "why we did
not attack Sweden", the answer being that Sweden had not done anything to
impinge upon the freedoms of bin Laden and his followers. As for the Americans,
"we fought you because we are free and because we want freedom for our nation.
When you squander our security, we squander yours."

He goes on to criticise the "American-Israeli alliance against our people in
Palestine and Lebanon". Bin Laden claims that "as I watched the destroyed towers
in Lebanon, it occurred to me to punish the unjust in the same way [and] to
destroy towers in America so it could taste some of what we are tasting and to
stop killing our women and children."

If taken at face value, this statement would suggest that bin Laden had been
planning the 9/11 attacks since Israel's

1982 aerial bombardment of Beirut. It is the first time that bin Laden has
sought to give a justification for the 9/11 attacks.

Bin Laden also criticises President Bush for not acting fast enough to save the
lives of those trapped in the twin towers. "It never occurred to us that the
commander-in-chief of the American forces would leave 50,000 citizens in the two
towers to face those horrors alone at a time when they most needed him because
he thought listening to a child discussing her goat and its ramming was more
important than the planes and their ramming of the skyscrapers."

There is, though, an unmistakeable air of petulance in bin Laden's commentary, a
sense of frustration that the world is not taking his threats with sufficient
seriousness. "I'm surprised by you," bin Laden admonishes Americans. "Despite
entering the fourth year after September 11, Bush is still deceiving you and
hiding the truth from you and therefore the reasons are still there to repeat
what happened."

The very fact that bin Laden is merely issuing threats, rather than implementing
terror attacks, suggests that the war on terror has been more successful than
most people imagined in disrupting al-Qaeda's infrastructure and effectiveness.
Even if bin Laden himself remains at large, many of his key lieutenants have
either been captured or killed, and bin Laden now lives a peripatetic existence
thanks to the overthrow of the Taliban in Afghanistan.

Certainly this is a fact that the Bush camp will seek to emphasise in the belief
that it should reaffirm their candidates' credentials as a war-time commander
with the courage to confront his enemies.

LOAD-DATE: October 31, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 2004 The Telegraph Group Limited

                              231 of 301 DOCUMENTS



                                  M2 Presswire

                                November 1, 2004

UK Government: Foreign secretary condemns terrorist attack in Tel Aviv

LENGTH: 147 words


M2 PRESSWIRE-NOVEMBER 1, 2004-UK Government: Foreign secretary condemns
terrorist attack in Tel Aviv ©1994-2004 M2 COMMUNICATIONS LTD

The Foreign Secretary Jack Straw said:

"I utterly condemn the terrorist attack at the Carmel Market in central Tel Aviv
today which has killed at least four people and injured many more. My deepest
sympathies go to the victims and their families. Acts of violence like this
present enormous obstacles to moving the peace process forward. I call on both
sides to fulfil their commitments under the roadmap, including for the
Palestinian Authority to fully implement its security obligations".

(M2 Communications Ltd disclaims all liability for information provided within
M2 PressWIRE. Data supplied by named party/parties. Further information on M2
PressWIRE can be obtained at http://www.presswire.net on the world wide web.
Inquiries to info@m2.com).

LOAD-DATE: November 1, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSWIRE


                     Copyright  2004 Normans Media Limited
                              All rights reserved

                              232 of 301 DOCUMENTS

                            The Independent (London)

                           November 2, 2004, Tuesday

TERROR ATTACK'S EFFECT ON CITY TO BE TESTED

BYLINE: JULIA KOLLEWE BANKING CORRESPONDENT

SECTION: First Edition; BUSINESS; Pg. 40

LENGTH: 388 words


THE FINANCIAL Services Authority, the Bank of England and the Treasury will
carry out a market-wide exercise on 22 November to test the financial system's
resilience to threats such as a terrorist attack.

A spokesman for the FSA said: "It will be a dress rehearsal, based on the
simulation of a market disruption."

The exercise, an annual event, will build on the lessons learned from the test
held in June 2003 and will gauge the communications infrastructure and
procedures put in place since then.

Some 50 organisations will be involved including key public sector bodies and
trade associations. KPMG is helping with the planning and delivery of the
exercise, which will be organised from the FSA, though each of the main groups
will operate from a separate location.

In a progress report, the Tripartite Committee on Financial Stability, which was
set up in April 2002, urged banks and insurance companies to test their own
contingency arrangements for dealing with threats ranging from terrorist attacks
to more mundane disruptions caused by telephones not working or a local illness.

The FSA spokesman said: "An encouraging amount has been done but there is no
room for relaxing or complacency. The good work gets undone if you do not keep
testing your systems."

The report said that while some firms have become much better at responding to
potential crises and made comprehensive plans, not all have done so.

In the coming year the main priority for authorities will be to make a formal
assessment, across firms and critical infrastructure, of the current level of
resilience against a range of scenarios.

A task force chaired by Sir Andrew Large, the deputy governor of the Bank of
England who is in charge of financial stability, concluded last December that
new statutory powers specific to the financial sector were not required to deal
with major operational disruptions but that further non-legislative improvements
were necessary.

Following the task force's recommendations, payment and settlement systems have
been reviewed and where necessary rules and procedures to respond to disruptions
have been strengthened; and work is in progress to review the standard market
contracts and market coordination arrangements to ensure they would be effective
in the event of a crisis.

LOAD-DATE: November 2, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 2004 Independent Print Ltd

                              233 of 301 DOCUMENTS

                         Peterborough Evening Telegraph

                                November 2, 2004

ATTACK: Girl (8) in terror mask ordeal

LENGTH: 122 words


TWO men wearing "Scream" Halloween masks jumped out on a young girl in broad
daylight - and one made a grab for her, police have revealed.

The eight-year-old was playing in a wooded area near Belvoir Way, in Welland,
Peterborough, when the men - who were in their 30s - jumped out at her.

One grabbed her but the girl managed to break free and run away.

The incident happened on Monday, October 25, at about 2.30pm, but details have
only just been revealed by police

The attack left the girl shaken.

Pc Carl Pleasance, who is investigating, said: "We would like to appeal to
anyone who was in the area who may have seen these two men."

? Anyone with information should call police on 01733 563232.


LOAD-DATE: November 3, 2004

LANGUAGE: English

                           © 2004 Johnston Press Plc

                              234 of 301 DOCUMENTS



                                  M2 Presswire

                                November 3, 2004

Norwegian Government: Norwegian Foreign Minister Jan Petersen condemns
yesterday's terrorist attack in Tel Aviv

LENGTH: 175 words


M2 PRESSWIRE-NOVEMBER 3, 2004-Norwegian Government: Norwegian Foreign Minister
Jan Petersen condemns yesterday's terrorist attack in Tel Aviv ©1994-2004 M2
COMMUNICATIONS LTD

We strongly condemn yesterday's terrorist attack in Tel Aviv, which according to
preliminary reports killed and wounded several people," said Foreign Minister
Jan Petersen.

"The Palestinian authorities must do their utmost to prevent any more attacks.
The terrorists responsible for yesterday's attack must be found and brought to
justice," continued the Foreign Minister.

"We hope that the planned Israeli withdrawal from Gaza and the four settlements
on the West Bank will give new momentum to the peace efforts in the Middle East.
Fresh violence will certainly not contribute to rapid withdrawal," concluded Mr
Petersen.

(M2 Communications Ltd disclaims all liability for information provided within
M2 PressWIRE. Data supplied by named party/parties. Further information on M2
PressWIRE can be obtained at http://www.presswire.net on the world wide web.
Inquiries to info@m2.com).

LOAD-DATE: November 3, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSWIRE


                     Copyright  2004 Normans Media Limited
                              All rights reserved

                              235 of 301 DOCUMENTS

                                  Isle Of Man

                                November 4, 2004

POLICE NOT EQUIPPED TO DEAL WITH TERROR ATTACKS

LENGTH: 187 words


POLICE could not cope with a terrorist attack in the Island, a former head of
the Royal Ulster Constabulary has warned.

Sir Ronnie Flanagan gave the stark warning the force 'has no capability' to deal
with an attack using biological, nuclear or chemical weapons, despite the
heightened fear of terror activity internationally.

The highly respected former police chief also claims measures to tackle force
corruption are not appropriate and officers are being put at risk because of a
lack of training in using safety equipment.

Criticising the lack of resources to tackle terrorism, Sir Ronnie admits a force
the size of the Island's has finite resources, but says contingency plans need
to be under constant review.

'The force has no capability for CBRN (chemical, biological, radioactive or
nuclear) incident response and no rapid intervention capability for siege
incidents,' he said. 'Whilst with finite resources, these are understandably
absent, contingencies to access these specialist resources from other sources
need to be regularly reviewed.'

Full story in today's Manx Independent.


LOAD-DATE: November 5, 2004

LANGUAGE: English

                           © 2004 Johnston Press Plc

                              236 of 301 DOCUMENTS

                            Daily Post (North Wales)

                           November 6, 2004, Saturday

BIGLEY MURDERERS CLAIM ATTACK ON BLACK WATCH;
 TERROR LEADER: WE KILLED SOLDIERS

BYLINE: RUSSELL FALLIS

SECTION: NW Merseyside Edition; NEWS; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 409 words


AL-QAIDA-linked followers of Jordanian militant Abu Musab al-Zarqawi have
claimed responsibility for the suicide attack which killed three British
soldiers south of Baghdad, according to a statement posted last night on an
Islamist website.

Zarqawi is believed to have murdered British hostage Ken Bigley and two
Americans kidnapped with him last month.

Last night's statement said: "A lion of the Martyrs' Brigade managed to ram into
a British military convoy south of Baghdad. " It added that the group "will not
let the infidels have homes in our lands".

"We will strike with an iron fist at anyone who enters our country, fighting us,
" the statement added.

Meanwhile, relatives of Black Watch soldiers killed in a suicide attack in
Iraq's Triangle of Death yesterday condemned the decision to go to war.

Private Paul Lowe, 19, Sergeant Stuart Gray, 31, and Private Scott McArdle, 22,
all from Fife, died in the blast at a vehicle checkpoint.

And according to his brother, Pte Lowe did not believe in the war which claimed
his life.

Fellow Black Watch soldier Craig Lowe, 18, called for the urgent withdrawal of
troops from Iraq to prevent the loss of any more lives.

The private, who only returned from Basra last month, said: "He thought they
shouldn't be there. They should all just be back here because it's a war which
nobody knows why it was started or what it was done for. "

Craig said the whole family, including his younger brothers, Stuart, Shaun and
Jordan, and mother Helen were "heartbroken" by the news.

Speaking at home in Kelty, Fife, Craig said his brother had loved his job but
thought little of US President George Bush and his reasons for going to war.

He said: "He just thought he was an a hole for starting a war over nothing,
trying to get money and oil.

"That's what we thought ourselves, that's what Paul thought as well, we all
thought that. "

Craig last spoke to his brother on Sunday and hedisclosed: "He was just saying
he was missing us all, that he couldn't wait to come home and hoped he would be
home for Christmas. "

Relatives of Scott McArdle said they were devastated by his death.

In a statement Black Watch Royal Highland Regiment spokesman Captain Bob Reid
said: "We are left saddened by the news that we have lost three friends.

"We are a professional military regiment with a long history and the men will
concentrate on the tasks they have to do. "

LOAD-DATE: November 7, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Floral tributes outside St Giles garrison church, Warminster, where the
Black Watch are based; Picture: TIM OCKENDEN; Stuart Gray; Paul Lowe; William
McArdle

TYPE: Newspaper

               Copyright 2004 The Liverpool Daily Post & Echo Ltd

                              237 of 301 DOCUMENTS

                            Manchester Evening News

                                November 6, 2004

Strip-attack terror

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 84 words



POLICE are warning women to be on their guard after armed men stripped and
robbed a girl aged 13. The girl was walking along Crofton Street, Moss Side, at
6.40pm on Thursday when two men rode up behind her on bikes. One put a knife to
her throat before dragging her backwards down an alleyway where he threatened to
stab her.  Both men then started to pull at the girl's clothes, removing her
jacket, trainers and top, before punching her in the face. They were disturbed
by a passer-by.

LOAD-DATE: November 6, 2004

LANGUAGE: English

                     Copyright 2004 Manchester Evening News

                              238 of 301 DOCUMENTS



                                  M2 Presswire

                                November 8, 2004

QinetiQ: Bosses fear cyber attacks more than terrorist threats

LENGTH: 614 words


M2 PRESSWIRE-NOVEMBER 8, 2004-QinetiQ: Bosses fear cyber attacks more than
terrorist threats ©1994-2004 M2 COMMUNICATIONS LTD

IT is still the greatest security concern among senior executives, according to
research from security and technology specialists QinetiQ and the CBI. Almost
all (95 per cent) of business leaders interviewed cited IT security as a
concern, while 79 per cent were also worried about insecure communications
infrastructures such as mobile and wireless networks.

The CBI/QinetiQ Business Security Survey, published yesterday, examined the
attitudes of 100 CBI member companies across a broad range of security issues.

The in-depth telephone research carried out by MORI* confirmed that security
issues as a whole are top of the agenda for corporate Britain with 97 per cent
describing it as a matter of great or some concern. The survey measured
attitudes on all aspects of security from terrorism and homeland security, to
the impact of security on brand value and ability to recruit and retain staff.

IT issues were a running theme in the findings and these fears far outweighed
the physical threat posed to a business by individuals and even suspect
packages. One in three (36 per cent) said that staff background checks and
screening were of no concern to them.

The high levels of concern for IT is at odds with relative unimportance of
screening - so while IT security is front of mind, background screening of IT
administrators may not be.

Duncan Hine, director of QinetiQ's Trusted Information Management Group said:
"There has been a fair amount of scare-mongering on this topic recently, but
breaches to IT infrastructures are becoming more frequent than security breaches
of a physical nature - so are perceived as a more real and present danger to the
chief executive."

Other types of security incident causing the most worry are terrorist action,
environmental terrorism and even animal rights activity.

Nearly two-thirds of companies had a strategic overhaul of their entire security
arrangements this year, with 82 per cent involved in detailed security
discussions at Board level. Two in three companies now employ a Chief Security
Officer, with one in five actually on the Board.

Yet despite the high level attention, confidence building business plans and
financial outlay, companies admit to feeling vulnerable. Sixty per cent said
that they had residual concerns about their organisation's state of
preparedness, that concern rises to 70 per cent in smaller businesses.

The research also highlighted a number of different sources of advice and
guidance that companies turn to with around three-quarters (74 per cent) likely
to call on providers of security technology and IT consultants.

Commenting on the survey findings, CBI Director-General Digby Jones said:
"Corporate Britain understands the meaning of risk and is working hard to
calibrate the additional risks posed by security. But how much easier life would
be if there was greater transparency from government and other key agencies.
Business needs to have more confidence that it is getting its risk assessments
right".

* The research was undertaken between August 4 and September 29

Note to Editors: MORI interviewed 100 CBI member companies by telephone between
4 August and 29 September 2004.

CONTACT: CBI press office Tel: +44 (0)20 7395 8239 Adam Keal/Rachel Jones/Simon
Matthews, Fishburn Hedges for QinetiQ Tel: +44 (0)20 7839 4321

(M2 Communications Ltd disclaims all liability for information provided within
M2 PressWIRE. Data supplied by named party/parties. Further information on M2
PressWIRE can be obtained at http://www.presswire.net on the world wide web.
Inquiries to info@m2.com).

LOAD-DATE: November 8, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSWIRE


                     Copyright  2004 Normans Media Limited
                              All rights reserved

                              239 of 301 DOCUMENTS

                        Western Morning News (Plymouth)

                                November 8, 2004

Video Shows Terrorist Attack On British Soldiers

SECTION: News; Other; Others; Pg. 30

LENGTH: 402 words


A video purportedly showing a suicide attack on three British troops outside
Baghdad was posted on an Islamic website yesterday.  Al Qaida-linked followers
of Jordanian militant Abu Musab al-Zarqawi had earlier claimed responsibility
for an attack on Thursday that killed three British soldiers south of Baghdad. A
subtitle claims: "The first martyrdom operation against the British forces in
Baghdad" before the video shows a car slowly driving down a road before it
bursts into flames. No military vehicle is seen nearby.

Off-camera, a voice yells out "Allahu Akar," or "God is Great." On Thursday,
soldiers from Britain's Black Watch regiment were manning a vehicle checkpoint
east of the Euphrates River when a suicide bomber blew up his vehicle and other
insurgents fired mortars at the position, killing three soldiers and wounding
eight more, according to British officials.

The three deaths represented the worst combat loss suffered by British troops
since August 23, 2003, when three Royal Military Police were killed in southern
Iraq. So far, 73 British troops have been killed.

An Iraqi interpreter, who had postponed his wedding to travel to central Iraq
with the troops, was also killed, British officials said.

Al Zarqawi's group, formerly known as Tawhid and Jihad, are believed to be
responsible for numerous car bombings and beheadings of foreign hostages,
including Briton Kenneth Bigley.

Elsewhere, rebels launched a wave of deadly attacks against police stations in
western Anbar province for the second day in a row yesterday, killing at least
22 people.

At dawn, armed militants clashed with police then set off explosions at police
stations in the neighbouring towns of Haditha and Haqlaniyah, 137 miles north
west of Baghdad, said Capt Nasser Abdullah of the K3 police station in
Haqlaniyah.

At least six policemen were killed at the Haqlaniyah police station, he said.
Also killed was the manager of security police for the western Anbar sector,
Shahir al Ghureifi.

A third police station, the K3 station, also came under attack as rebels clashed
with Iraqi forces, he said. Guards at the Haditha Dam were also attacked.

Later, the Iraqi government declared a state of emergency for 60 days throughout
the country except for Kurdish-run areas of the north as US and Iraqi forces
prepare for an expected all-out assault on rebels in Fallujah.


LOAD-DATE: November 9, 2004

LANGUAGE: English

                      Copyright 2004 Western Morning News

                              240 of 301 DOCUMENTS

                            Birmingham Evening Mail

                           November 9, 2004, Tuesday

TERROR ATTACKS WARNING

SECTION: First Edition; BUSINESS; Pg. 31

LENGTH: 80 words


BRITONS face a 'serious and sustained threat' of terror attacks, MI5 chief Eliza
Manningham-Buller has warned. Despite the arrest and killing of many al Qaida
leaders, the organisation can still mount attacks, she said.

And Osama bin Laden's group has 'inspired' other fanatics, Ms Manningham-Buller
told the CBI conference.

'There is a serious and sustained threat of terrorist attacks against UK
interests , including against the business community,' she said.

LOAD-DATE: November 10, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

               Copyright 2004 Midland Independent Newspapers plc

                              241 of 301 DOCUMENTS

                           Aberdeen Press and Journal

                               November 10, 2004

Sculptor carves out memorial to British victims of terror attack

BYLINE: Iain Grant

SECTION: News; Other; Others; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 376 words


A New York-based stone sculptor has set up temporary home in Caithness to
complete his part in what is to be a lasting tribute to the British victims of
the the Twin Towers terrorist attack. Englishman Simon Verity is in the middle
of the demanding job of cutting and engraving over 200 tonnes of stone being
used as the path in the British Memorial Gardens.

He is shaping them into a triangular-shaped jigsaw of place-names, which is
designed to resemble a map of the country.

The large slabs of Caithness flagstone and sandstone from Moray are being worked
in a workshop leased from Norfrost Technology's base in Castletown.

Mr Verity became involved in the project after being hired by Julian and Isabel
Bannerman, who won the contest to design the garden, near Wall Street.

He is a well-known sculptor, who has lived in New York for 15 years after
landing a major contract to work in the city's St John the Divine Cathedral, the
biggest cathedral in the world.

He is just about half-way through the painstaking task of chiselling out the
names of all 95 counties in England, Wales, Ireland and Scotland, together with
19 London boroughs and the 13 British overseas territories.

Mr Verity said yesterday: "There will be Moray stone county lettering in between
the pieces of Caithness sandstone.

"The stones are about a metre long and I carve about six or seven a day. I'm
slowly working anti-clockwise round the British Isles. I'm nearly half-way there
and hope I will be finished by Christmas." Also heavily involved is Norfrost
engineer George Mackay after his firm were sub-contracted to cut the heavy-duty
stone.

He operates a high-pressure computer-controlled water cutter to produce the
variety of sizes and shapes required for the design.

The paving is due to be shipped out next year and laid in the new garden in the
city's Hanover Square.

The memorial to the 67 Britons killed in the World Trade Center attack in 2001
was the brainchild of English-born New York businesswoman Camilla Hellmann.

The flagstone comes from Caithness Stone Industries' quarry in Spittal while the
sandstone was sourced in Elgin.

Highland Councillors in Caithness recently agreed to donate £1,400 towards the
project.


LOAD-DATE: November 11, 2004

LANGUAGE: English

                   Copyright 2004 Aberdeen Press and Journal

                              242 of 301 DOCUMENTS

                                  Daily Record

                          November 10, 2004, Wednesday

I'M LIVING IN TERROR;
 ACID ATTACK VICTIM'S HELL AS HER EX IS RELEASED FROM JAIL

BYLINE: Marie Sharp

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 19

LENGTH: 393 words


ACID victim Louise Duddy told of her terror yesterday after the man who ordered
the attack on her was released from jail.

Her ex-husband Gordon Modiak, who was jailed for hiring a hitman to throw a pint
of sulphuric acid in her face, has been freed early after serving 14 years.

Last night, Louise said knowing he was back on the streets meant she was living
in fear.

Modiak headed for England but Louise claimed: 'He's probably practising his
driving skills for a wee trip back up here.

'I've got to be so careful for my safety.'

Modiak, 52, ordered hitman Kevin Greenhalghse to carry out the attack after
former hairdresser and model Louise, from Edinburgh, plucked up the courage to
leave him.

The small-time crook had put Louise through years of beatings and vowed: 'If I
can't have you, nobody else will.'

Louise lost both eyes in the attack and had to undergo years of plastic surgery.

Modiak's campaign of terror continued from behind bars, with a series of
threatening letters leaving her in fear for her life.

He was released from Dumfries Prison last Friday after serving two-thirds of his
20-year sentence.

He immediately boarded a train for England after rumours that a contract had
been put on his life in Edinburgh.

But Louise, 40, feels it will not be long before he returns to his home city -
and tries to find her.

She said: 'I know Modiak jumped on a train and headed for England the moment he
got out of jail.

'A friend of mine camped overnight outside the jail to see where he went. But
he'll not settle down there.

'I've got to be so careful, I've got two kids to protect.

'I've got no eyes - I've got to have people around me to help me all the time.

'I've been through hell the past 14 years and I don't want anything to start
again. I just want to put it all behind me and move on - try and live a normal
life.'

Louise has two sons, 21-year-old Deane and Ryan, 15.

A neighbour said: 'Louise is permanently cooped up in that house. She does have
a guide dog but he acts more like a sentry for people knocking her door.

'Now he is out, the nightmare has started again.'

After a trial in 1991, both Modiak and martial arts expert Greenhalghse, 45,
were jailed for 20 years.

Modiak's early release has caused outrage and prompted calls for the system to
be changed.

LOAD-DATE: November 10, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: JEALOUS: Modiak and Louise before the attack; ORDEAL: Louise was
blinded in the acid attack arranged by her ex-husband

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

            Copyright 2004 Scottish Daily Record & Sunday Mail Ltd.

                              243 of 301 DOCUMENTS



                                   The Mirror

                          November 10, 2004, Wednesday

I'M AFRAID HE'S GOING TO COME AND GET ME;
 ACID ATTACK WIFE'S TERROR

BYLINE: GORDON TAIT

SECTION: Scots Edition; NEWS; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 320 words

HIGHLIGHT: LIVING HELL: Louise was left blinded and scarred; FREED: Modiak
served 13 years


A BLINDED mum last night told how she fears for her safety after the release of
acid fiend Gordon Modiak.

Terrified mum Louise Duddy was horrifically scarred when he paid a hitman to
throw burning chemicals into her face.

But, despite continuing to terrorise his ex-wife from jail, Modiak was back on
the streets last week after serving just 13 years.

Speaking for the first time since his release, Louise now fears the monster is
plotting his return home to Edinburgh.

Brutal Modiak, 52, was sentenced to 20 years for ordering Kevin Greenhalghse to
launch the sick attack on the ex-model.

The small-time crook had put his pretty, younger wife through years of beatings.

And after she plucked up the courage to leave him, he threatened: "If I can't
have you, nobody else will."

Even behind bars, he sent a series of threatening letters, leaving mum-of-two
Louise fearing for her life - and dreading the day he was freed.

That came last Friday, when he was released from Dumfries Prison.

He boarded a train for England, amid rumours contracts were out on his life.

But Louise, 40, fears it will not be long before he returns home - and tracks
her down. She said: "I know Modiak jumped on a train and headed for England the
moment he got out of jail.

"But he'll not settle down there. He's probably practising his driving skills
for a wee trip up back up here.

"I've got to be so careful for my safety. I've got two kids to protect.

"I've got no eyes - I've got to have people around me to help me all the time.
I've been through hell the past 14 years and I don't want anything to start
again."

She had earlier said: "I have always dreaded his release. Of course I think he
is a serious threat to me. Look what he did to me."

He and Greenhalghse were jailed for 20 years in 1991. But legal rules said
Modiak had to go free after serving two-thirds of his sentence.

LOAD-DATE: November 10, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                            Copyright 2004 MGN Ltd.

                              244 of 301 DOCUMENTS



                             Nordic Business Report

                               November 11, 2004

Danish minister warns that terror attacks could happen in Denmark - report

LENGTH: 133 words


NORDIC BUSINESS REPORT-11 November 2004-Danish minister warns that terror
attacks could happen in Denmark - report ©1998-2004 M2 COMMUNICATIONS LTD
http://www.m2.com

Following the killing of a Dutch filmmaker, the Danish integration minister
Bertel Haarder has reportedly warned that Islamic terror attacks and
assassinations could also occur in Denmark.

The minister said that the Danish government was currently considering
increasing security levels and tightening anti-terror laws to prevent militant
Islamic acts of terror or killings in Denmark.

The minister also called for Danish Muslims to report unusual and suspicious
persons or incidents to the police authorities, reported the Danish online news
service DR Nyheder.

(Comments on this story may be sent to nbr.feedback@nordicbusinessreport.com)

LOAD-DATE: November 11, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newsletter


                     Copyright  2004 M2 Communications Ltd
                              All rights reserved

                              245 of 301 DOCUMENTS

                              The Sentinel (Stoke)

                               November 11, 2004

Manager shot dead in terrorist attack

SECTION: News; Courts; Inquest/Inquiry/FAI; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 352 words


Mr McGillen's body was found in his office, where police found two bullet holes
in the walls.  An American victim, Stephen Laguardia, was tied to the back of
the terrorists' car as they escaped and were pursued by security and police.

Det Sgt Hall told the inquest the pursuit lasted around two hours. As they towed
Mr Laguardia's body around they threw pipe bombs and fired indiscriminantly at a
nearby McDonald's and an international school.

The National Guard joined the chase - with one member becoming the terrorists'
seventh victim - and the four men were eventually gunned down.

The leader of the terrorists was Mustafa Abd Al-Qadir Abid Al-Ansari, who had
been out of the country for 10 years and was on the wanted list.

Det Sgt Hall said as he was dying he confessed the other men were his brother
Ayman Abd Al-Qadir Al-Ansari and Ayman's sons Sami Sulayman Al-Ansari and Samir
Sulayman Abdullah Al-Ansari.

Mr McGillen's partner Linda Shepherd asked the detective whether he thought fake
images of British soldiers mistreating Iraqis, which were shown on Saudi
television hours before the terrorist attack, could have been to blame. He said:
"It may have been totally unconnected or it may have been pre-planned." Home
Office pathologist Dr Kenneth Shorrock said Mr McGillen had four bullet entry
wounds - three in his back and one in his front - and two exit wounds. He also
had a bruise on his right arm where a bullet was lodged.

The doctor, who gave the cause of death as "gun shot wounds to the head and
chest", said he would have died instantly. He said: "Any one of the four bullet
wounds individually could have killed him.

"The four acting together inevitably would have." Dr Shorrock said he could not
say what Mr McGillen was doing at the time he was shot.

He said: "All sorts of scenarios are possible. He could have been felled by the
first bullet, spun around and three bullets fired while he lay down. He could
have sustained them running - it's impossible to say." North Staffordshire
coroner Ian Smith ruled Mr McGillen was unlawfully killed.


LOAD-DATE: November 12, 2004

LANGUAGE: English

                      Copyright 2004 The Sentinel (Stoke)

                              246 of 301 DOCUMENTS

                                Hull Daily Mail

                               November 12, 2004

Girl in cemetery sex attack terror

SECTION: News; 999; Autocrime; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 350 words


Hull: Police were today hunting a man who subjected a teenage girl to a
terrifying sex attack.  The 14-year-old girl needed to be taken to Hull Royal
Infirmary for treatment after the attack in Hull Cemetery last night.

The incident happened close to the Gate House of Spring Bank West Cemetery in
Chanterlands Avenue at 7.15pm A man aged about 19 is wanted in connection with
the attack.

He is described as white, with a closely shaven head and was carrying a Euro
2004 carrier bag.

Anyone with information should call police on (01482) 597500.

Sultan of spin WEST HULL: Former Government spin doctor Alistair Campbell is the
guest speaker at the West Hull and Hessle Labour group's annual dinner tonight.

Mr Campbell, who was Tony Blair's communications chief, resigned from his job in
August last year after the publication of the Hutton inquiry into the death of
Government weapons expert Dr David Kelly.

West Hull and Hessle MP Alan Johnson will also attend the event, to be held at
the KC Stadium.

Teen stabbed HULL: A Polish teenager suffered multiple stab wounds in a brawl.

He was one of four friends involved in a fight with a group of men in Hymers
Avenue, west Hull.

He was taken to hospital by taxi suffering from stab wounds, which included a
7in gash to his leg and two 2in cuts to his shoulder.

Police are trying to trace the taxi driver and two girls who told officers they
witnessed the fight.

Anyone who saw the incident, which happened at about 10pm on Saturday, should
call police on (01482) 597500.

Street robbery EAST HULL: A 22-year-old man was robbed as he walked on Westcott
Street towards Holderness Road.

He was approached by three men and one punched him and stole his wallet and
mobile phone, before hitting him again.

The men walked off on Holderness Road, away from the city centre.

The attacker is described as white, about 5ft 7in, in his mid-20s and wearing a
baseball cap.

Anyone who witnessed the incident, which happened at 2.15pm yesterday, should
call police on (01482) 597500.


LOAD-DATE: November 14, 2004

LANGUAGE: English

                         Copyright 2004 Hull Daily Mail

                              247 of 301 DOCUMENTS

                                  Isle Of Man

                               November 12, 2004

TERROR ATTACKS: ARE WE READY?

LENGTH: 700 words


MAJOR steps have been taken to ensure the Island is ready to react to a terror
attack, according to Home Affairs Minister Phil Braidwood.

"Hopefully the measures will never be needed": Quote by Minister Phil Braidwood

He said there has been investment in training, equipment and infrastructure, but
admitted preparations have been hit by problems gaining support from the UK.

It was revealed last week, in a report written by former Royal Ulster
Constabulary chief Sir Ronnie Flanagan, that the police force 'has no
capability' to deal with an attack using biological, nuclear or chemical
weapons. He accepted Island resources are finite, but said every effort should
be taken to ensure access to specialist resources from outside is available.

Mr Braidwood said major improvements have been made, but confirmed there have
been problems ensuring police officers are at the necessary level of readiness.

He explained the department applied in January for places on courses to train
eight senior officers in controlling gold and silver command - the two highest
levels of command at any major incident - and for 25 places on operational
courses.

'We were refused,' Mr Braidwood said. 'We were told there were no spaces for the
Isle of Man because it was the metropolitan areas that were being focused on
because they were high risk.'

Since then Island officers have managed to attend on silver command courses and
two operational courses, but Mr Braidwood said he feels that is not good enough.
The Department of Home Affairs is now planning to bring trainers to the Island
early next year to run courses.

'Unfortunately we are relying on the UK and that is why we are trying to get the
courses over here,' Mr Braidwood said.

There have also been problems in buying the necessary equipment because of
shortages created by UK demand and delays in the UK agreeing technical
specifications.

Despite that, hundreds of thousands of pounds have been spent in the past 12
months to buy chemical protection suits, decontamination units, gas detectors
and much more. The department has also invested in an Island-wide alert system
using a series of sirens - able to be heard by 82 per cent of the population -
which will be sounded in the event of a major emergency.

The latest development has been the publication, this week, of an advice booklet
on what to do in a major emergency. The 10-page booklet is being delivered to
every home.

Mr Braidwood said it is not intended to cause alarm, but give helpful,
commonsense advice on how to prepare for a major incident and what to do if one
happens. He said the advice is not limited to terror strikes, but can be applied
in the event of accidents or natural disasters.

The public are advised to draw up an emergency plan, including making sure
everyone in the house knows what to do, having a point of contact in case
families get separated, having a meeting place and keeping a record of emergency
service numbers. Every household should also have a basic kit of emergency
supplies, including a battery-operated radio - to listen to the emergency
broadcasts which will be made on local radio stations - first aid kit, torch,
bottled water, ready-to-eat food and copies of personal documents.

There are also first aid tips. The key message is: 'Go in, stay in and tune in.'

'The Isle of Man is a wonderful place to live, but because we are an Island
there are inevitably hazards which we have to prepare to handle,' Mr Braidwood
said. 'As with many things in life, prevention is better than cure and the
booklet gives commonsense advice on the steps that we can take to ward off these
hazards and prepare for dealing with their effects.'

He added: 'A lot has been put in place already, there has been expenditure on
training, infrastructure and equipment and there is still money to be spent.
Last year, when I asked Tynwald for the money, some people asked whether it was
worth spending.

'It was, to be prepared and reassure the public that government takes these
matters seriously.

'Hopefully the measures will never be needed, but we would be rightly criticised
if nothing was in place.'


LOAD-DATE: November 14, 2004

LANGUAGE: English

                           © 2004 Johnston Press Plc

                              248 of 301 DOCUMENTS

                          THE JOURNAL (Newcastle, UK)

                      November 12, 2004, Friday Edition 1

Terror attack by addict

BYLINE: By Hilary Clixby And Paul James, The Journal

SECTION: NEWS LOCAL, Pg. 3

LENGTH: 812 words


   Derek Tight was soundly asleep in the warmth and comfort of his own home in
his close-knit street full of friends and even family members.

He was blissfully unaware that a dangerous criminal, who had taken part in a
robbery involving a knife less than three weeks before, was lurking outside.

Startled after neighbours woke him with reports that his father's Ford Mondeo
car, parked outside the family home, was being broken into, he pulled some
clothes on and hurried outside.

But within minutes Mr Tight had part of his ear bitten off and was subjected to
a terrifying hammer attack by drug addict Peter Todd as he tried to stop him
taking the car.

After being tracked down by DNA evidence, Todd was jailed for nine years at
Newcastle Crown Court yesterday.

The court heard that Todd and a female accomplice arrived in the early hours of
the morning on Gateshead's Beacon Lough Estate on November 26 last year. Tim
Gittins, prosecuting, said Mr Tight, who lived at Stonecrop, got dressed and
made his way to the car and approached Todd.

Mr Gittins said: "As he got there, Todd was getting into the vehicle with the
woman by the driver's side. He challenged them and it would seem went towards
Todd first of all. The girl grabbed him from behind and then Todd got out and
approached him. He took hold of Mr Tight in a bear hug and began to bite at Mr
Tight's left ear in the struggle that followed, taking a portion of the top of
the ear off.

"Mr Tight managed to punch Todd in the stomach and that released his grip and he
began to run off, unfortunately he was pursued. He felt a blow to the back of
the head with some force that was with a hammer. He fell to the ground before
being subjected to further blows with the hammer and Todd kicking into his
body." The court heard Todd and the woman made off and Mr Tight was taken to
hospital where doctors were unable to re-attach the severed flesh to his ear. He
also had a cut to the back of the head requiring four stitches, two broken ribs
and bruising. Todd, 26, of Earsdon Close, West Denton, Newcastle, was traced by
DNA evidence, the court was told.

At the time of the attack in November last year, he had been on bail accused of
a street robbery in which an accomplice was alleged to have threatened a man
with a knife. Todd was jailed yesterday for a total of nine years after
admitting wounding Mr Tight with intent and the earlier street robbery.

Criminals caught by operation after spate of raids

Drug addict Peter Todd was among a number of criminals caught in a police
operation specially set up to investigate a spate of increasingly violent armed
robberies on Tyneside.

Operation Licence was launched by Northumbria Police after a series of attacks
on off-licences and small shops in the Newcastle and Gateshead areas last year.
Hundreds of witnesses were interviewed during the course of the investigation
which resulted in jail terms for Todd and four other men at Newcastle Crown
Court yesterday.

Others arrested during the operation included Craig McDonald, of Thornley Road,
Newcastle, who was jailed for seven years after admitting burglary, handling and
three offences of robbery including an attack which left retired police officer
Brian Wright badly injured. McDonald, 24, had already taken part in armed raids
on the Nisa Store in Beacon Lough and Jessels General Dealers in Low Fell, both
Gateshead, when he and three accomplices targeted the Saltwell Newsagents run by
Mr Wright in the town's Saltwell Road. He and John Todd were both masked when
they confronted Mr Wright, his daughter Cheryl and a customer while another
robber stood at the door and the fourth waited outside in a stolen getaway car.
Mr Wright, 64, suffered wounds to his head and body and a fractured and
dislocated shoulder when he was beaten with a hammer.

Another man arrested during the operation was Gordon Simpson, 27, of Thursby
Gardens, Felling, Gateshead, who was jailed for seven years and 10 months after
being convicted of attempted robbery and admitting theft, attempted theft, and
aggravated burglary. The attempted robbery involved an attack on a middle-aged
woman who suffered a fractured jaw and cuts to her mouth when she was punched by
Simpson as he wrested her shoulder bag from her in Low Fell. Paul McCready, 24,
of Stephenson Street, Gateshead, was jailed for three years after admitting
assisting McDonald and John Todd by providing them with a refuge after the
Saltwell Newsagents raid.

Lee Sherriff, 23, of Audouins Row, Gateshead, was sentenced to 18 months
imprisonment after admitting assisting an offender by disposing of the stolen
getaway car used in the raid at Saltwell Newsagents. Sentence has been adjourned
on John Todd, 23, also of Audouins Row, who admitted the newsagents robbery and
a further robbery at the Londis Store in Lemington, Newcastle.

LOAD-DATE: December 17, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                Copyright 2004 Newcastle Chronicle & Journal Ltd

                              249 of 301 DOCUMENTS

                            Evening Times (Glasgow)

                               November 15, 2004

Terror as man is attacked at city taxi rank;Police hunt three after late -night
assault in west end

BYLINE: By Jonathan Paisley

SECTION: Pg. 2

LENGTH: 386 words


A MAN suffered serious head injuries after being beaten up at a taxi rank

in Glasgow.

Police are hunting three men in connection with the attack on a 23-year-old in
Byres Road, in the west end.

The victim was rushed to the Western Infirmary and later transferred to Glasgow
Royal Infirmary.

His condition was today described as "stable".

Witnesses say the attack took place around 11.40pm on Saturday at a taxi rank
outside Hillhead Subway station.

Police are hunting three men. Two of the attackers were described as white in
their mid 20s to 30s, about 5ft 9in, and of average build. One had short blond
hair.

The other was about the same age and height, but

had dark hair and was more heavily built. He had a tanned complexion.

Anyone who saw the attack or has knowledge of the

persons responsible is asked

to contact Partick CID or Crimestoppers on 0800 555111.

Meanwhile, a man is in

hospital after being stabbed.

The 20-year-old was found seriously injured after a fight in Roystonhill,
Glasgow, at around 5pm on Saturday.

He was taken by ambulance to the Glasgow Royal Infirmary and staff said his
condition was "serious but stable".

Police are treating the incident as attempted murder.

Detective Constable Alan Paterson, of Baird Street CID, is appealing for any
witnesses to the incident or anyone with any information that may assist his
inquiries to contact him.

A teenager was expected to appear at Hamilton Sheriff court today in connection
with an unrelated assault on a

47-year-old. The man was seriously injured on Friday night on Linnet Road,
Bellshill.

A 48-year-old was also expected to appear at Kilmarnock Sheriff Court today in
connection with a robbery and the assault of a 64-year-old man.

The robbery is alleged to have taken place at Craighead Farm in Dalry last
month.

Meanwhile, a former Partick Thistle player has been charged with killing a man
in Iceland.

Midfielder Scott Ramsay, 29, was arrested after a bust-up in a nightclub in
Keflavik. A Danish pilot collapsed and later died of his injuries in hospital.

The player, who left Partick Thistle on a free transfer in 1996, is expected to
be freed today on bail, but will not be allowed to leave Iceland.

jonathan.paisley@

eveningtimes.co.uk

LOAD-DATE: November 16, 2004

LANGUAGE: English

GRAPHIC: CRIME SCENE: the man was attacked near Hillhead Subway

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                Copyright 2004 Scottish Media Newspapers Limited

                              250 of 301 DOCUMENTS

                          THE DAILY TELEGRAPH(LONDON)

                           November 16, 2004, Tuesday

Islamic terrorists 'plotted attack at finals of Euro 2004'

BYLINE: By Ambrose Evans-Pritchard in Brussels

SECTION: News; International Pg. 12

LENGTH: 477 words

A DUTCH Islamic cell linked to the murder of the film-maker Theo Van Gogh
planned a terrorist "spectacular" at the Euro 2004 football championship this
summer, it was revealed yesterday.

Adelino Salvado, the former chief of Portugal's judiciary police, said his men
seized three members of the "hit squad" the day before the tournament began in
June.

The terrorist cell, known as the Hofstad Network, drove a car registered to
Mohammed Bouyeri, the Dutch-Moroccan accused of slitting Mr Van Gogh's throat in
Amsterdam earlier this month. Among the three men was El Fahtni Noreddine, a
Moroccan national who at one point shared a flat in Amsterdam with Bouyeri.

Jose Manuel Barroso, then Portugal's premier and now the incoming president of
the European Commission, was believed to be in imminent danger.

Police confined him to his hotel in Porto on June 11, causing him to miss the
gala dinner celebrating the opening match between Portugal and Greece. It
followed a tip-off by Holland's AIVD intelligence service.  "Everything
indicated they were preparing an attack, and I could never sleep if I did
nothing to prevent it," Mr Salvado told Portugal's Diario de Noticias. The
suspects were later deported rather than put on trial.

The revelation heightens fears that Mr Van Gogh's killer was part of a
far-reaching Islamic cell, able to strike anywhere in Europe, taking advantage
of Holland's tolerant society in a jihad against the West. The Hofstad cell is
also under investigation about suspected plans to strike the Dutch parliament,
Amsterdam's Schiphol airport, and the Borssele nuclear reactor.

Piet Hein Donner, the justice minister, announced yesterday that his government
was launching an international manhunt for the "spiritual leader" of the cell, a
Syrian extradited to Germany before the murder of Mr Van Gogh.

A recent report by AIVD concluded that up to 50,000 of Holland's one
million-strong Muslim community was sympathetic to extreme Islamic causes. The
Hofstadt Network, believed to be linked to al-Qa'eda, is part of the extreme
Islamic movement el-Takfir wa el Hijra.

Mr Van Gogh's killer skewered a five-page letter into his chest, citing obscure
Islamic texts and pledging the destruction of the Netherlands.

The letter included an explicit threat to murder Ayaan Hirsi Ali, a Dutch MP of
Somali origin who has renounced Islam and co-produced a film about the
oppression of Muslim women with Mr Van Gogh. She is now in hiding.

The Dutch police have so far arrested 12 Islamic radicals after a "declaration
of war" by the cabinet against an enemy within that is now threatening the
stability of Dutch society.

New measures include proposals to deport extremists, whether or not they are
Dutch citizens, as the country turns its back on its 30-year experiment as the
world's most easy-going model of multi-culturalism.

LOAD-DATE: November 16, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 2004 Telegraph Group Limited

                              251 of 301 DOCUMENTS

                UK Newsquest Regional Press - This is Lancashire

                               November 18, 2004

Terror attack for woman in carjacking

LENGTH: 219 words


A WOMAN was threatened with a baseball bat and forced out of her vehicle during
a carjacking raid.

Detectives are hunting two men who stole Lorraine Crick's Volkswagen Golf as she
waited for her husband outside the Colliers Arms pub in Tyldesley.

Two men both wearing dark clothing and balaclavas approached the 42-year-old and
opened the driver door.

They threatened a terrified Mrs Crick with baseball bats and ordered her to get
out of the car.

The robbers then drove away in the vehicle towards Tyldesley town centre

The child minder who comes from Wigan was not hurt during the ordeal but was
left extremely shaken.

Mrs Crick had arrived outside the pub to pick up her husband who was finishing
his drink while chatting to friends about his forthcoming holiday.

Police are appealing for witnesses to the carjacking in Hawthorn Close at 8pm on
Sunday.

They are still hunting the vehicle with the registration HG 54DYN which is still
missing.

It follows a violent carjacking in August when a driver was pulled from the
driver seat of his Toyota MR2 in Plodder Lane Farnworth as he waited at traffic
lights.

Anyone with any further information about the Tyldesley incident should contact
Wigan CID on 0161 856 7209 or Crimestoppers anonymously on 0800 555 111

LOAD-DATE: November 18, 2004

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: News

                  Copyright 2004 NewsQuest Media Group Limited

                              252 of 301 DOCUMENTS

                       Travel Trade Gazette UK & Ireland

                               November 19, 2004

Taba terrorist attack fails to put off Red Sea tourists

SECTION: Pg. 28

LENGTH: 325 words


GARY NOAKES

BOOKINGS to Egypt's Red Sea resorts are back to normal after the terrorist
bombing in Taba last month, the Hilton hotel chain claims.

Hilton, which operates 18 properties in Egypt, is re-building its Taba hotel in
the wake of the attack on Israeli tourists. Ashley Spencer, Hilton's Cairo-based
vice-president, said: "We took a 2% dip in the week after, but trading has come
back exactly as it was."

The rebound contrasts with the terrorist massacre at Luxor in 1997. "Luxor took
years to get over that," he said. "But it is a horrible fact of life that people
get used to things like this."

UK visitors are also thought to have perceived the Taba attack as being directly
targeted at Israelis.

"What I can't do is announce that Egypt is safe - that is a ridiculous thing to
say," added Spencer.

"People have to take advice from their travel agent."

He said that despite the attack, Egypt would break its visitor record this year.

"Last year, we got just over six million visitors. By the end of this September,
we have had 7.2 million," he said.

Growth is being spurred by the Red Sea, formerly mainly a diving destination,
which is now attracting families and beach tourists and diversifying Egypt's
appeal away from cultural tourism.

Capacity is being increased by major operators keen to avoid scraps with
no-frills rivals in Europe.

"People are now coming without even thinking about the antiquities," he said.

"We have 22 charters a week arriving in Sharm el Sheikh; in 1989 we had two."

Most of the Red Sea development is based on resort hotels in remote areas. Sharm
now has more than 30,000 five-star rooms.

Development is continuing south along the coast at Marsa Alam, 90 minutes from
Hurghada, where Hilton is building a 360-room property.

However, Spencer said the closeness of the Sudanese border was likely to
prohibit any further building south of Marsa Alam.




LOAD-DATE: November 23, 2004

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Magazine

                       Copyright 2004 CMP Information Ltd

                              253 of 301 DOCUMENTS

                     The Guardian (London) - Final Edition

                               November 20, 2004

Rocket attacks make terror part of army routine: Jamie Wilson who was caught in
latest Camp Dogwood attack

BYLINE: Jamie Wilson

SECTION: Guardian Home Pages, Pg. 1

LENGTH: 602 words


War, they say, is 95% boredom and 5% terror, and for the men of the Black Watch,
even the latter is beginning to feel routine.

Nearly three weeks since the regiment arrived at Camp Dogwood, and with the
exception of a brief respite over the Muslim holiday of Eid, rockets and mortars
have fallen inside their bleak and uncomfortable base almost every day.

But the distant crump, followed by a high-pitched whistle, and the shouts of
"get down" drowned out by the boom of the explosion, still manage to raise the
level of adrenaline in even the most experienced soldiers.

Two rockets arrived before breakfast yesterday, with three more whistling in
around elevenses. The second salvo came just as a squad of Royal Engineers was
starting an ex ercise on a patch of desert that doubles as a parade ground.

At the first explosion, all nine men - and a small group of unsuspecting
journalists - threw themselves to the ground. The second was accompanied by the
confusing commands to "get down" and "run like shit" and, by the time the third
rocket arrived, much of the assembled company was trying to cram into the front
shovel of a digger. No one was injured in the attacks.

The regiment's commanding officer, Lt Col James Cowan, calls them a "nuisance",
but Corporal Paul Brown, 34, from Gosport, might disagree. Last week, he became
one of only two soldiers to be injured in the attacks within the camp, and a
small piece of shrapnel is still embedded in his neck.

"They told me it will probably work its way out at some point," he said.

But while it is hard to imagine anywhere more unforgiving, for most of the
850-strong battle group the war being fought around Camp Dogwood is dusty and
dirty, but it is not hell. Instead, it is an ex ercise in what the engineers
call discomfort management.

As they lolled around, a whistle sounded from the far end of the corridor.
Briefly, the men tensed, before Sergeant Dave Parsley, the troop leader,
growled: "If you do that again, I'll rip your fucking lips off."

"They're a lot better at this game than those we have come up against down
south," said Sgt Parsley of the insurgents as he chewed on a fat cigar. He
should know. The paperweight next to his army issue camp bed is the top of a
rocket fired into the base last week. It landed about seven feet from where he
had taken cover, but it failed to go off. "I couldn't bloody believe it when I
saw it," he said.

"Welcome to the Dogwood Hilton," reads a sign on the wall of probably the safest
place in the camp. Nobody else wanted the underground bunker. But the 11 members
of the refuelling crew who now call it home spent three days clearing it of
rubble. It doesn't have hot running water, piles of white towels or king-sized
beds, but the soldiers have done their best.

"We filled every spare little bit of space on the truck," said Corporal Robert
Smith, 29, from Dundee. "We bought a DVD player and a stereo, and darts, of
course."

The insurgents remain an elusive enemy, firing their rockets from the lush east
bank of the Euphrates.

For most of the soldiers, the only contact they will have with their shadowy foe
will come in the form of the metre-long metal tubes similar to the one a bomb
disposal officer attached wires to yesterday. After his retreat, a loud
explosion sent a column of dust and smoke into the clear blue sky, a reminder,
amid the boredom, of the danger the soldiers face.

"I never, ever, want to see this place again," one soldier said, no doubt
speaking for many.

US steps up hunt for insurgents, page 17

guardian.co.uk/iraq


LOAD-DATE: November 20, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 2004 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              254 of 301 DOCUMENTS

                            Daily Post (North Wales)

                           November 23, 2004, Tuesday

BIGLEY'S DEATH CELL IS FOUND;
 IRAQ DISCOVERY AS LONDON TERROR ATTACKS ARE THWARTED

BYLINE: ALAN WESTON

SECTION: NW Merseyside Edition; NEWS; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 186 words


THE house in which Liverpool-born hostage Ken Bigley was brutally murdered by
Islamic militants last month has been found.

American military officers believe the house in Fallujah is where the
62-year-old civil engineer was held, along with other hostages.

The discovery was made as reports emerged last night that British security
services had thwarted September 11-style terror attacks on London's Heathrow
Airport and Canary Wharf.

Mr Bigley was shown being beheaded in a video sent to an Arab TV station in
early October. His body has still not been recovered.

In the weeks leading up to his death, he was also shown in a chicken-wire cage,
pleading with Prime Minister Tony Blair to intervene and help to save his life.

Mr Bigley was kidnapped in Baghdad on September 16, along with two American
colleagues, who were also beheaded.

An Iraqi insurgent captured in southern Fallujah on Friday led Iraqi forces to
the city centre house where he said a British hostage had been held, as well as
other "foreign hostages. "

US military officials believe his claims to be "credible".

LOAD-DATE: November 23, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Newspaper

               Copyright 2004 The Liverpool Daily Post & Echo Ltd

                              255 of 301 DOCUMENTS

                            Daily Post (North Wales)

                           November 23, 2004, Tuesday

TERROR ATTACKS ON LONDON FOILED

BYLINE: JAMES LYONS

SECTION: NW Merseyside Edition; NEWS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 406 words


BRITISH security services have thwarted September 11-style terror attacks on
London's Heathrow Airport and Canary Wharf, it emerged last night.

Plans to crash planes on the two high-profile targets are among four or five al
Qaida strikes that security chiefs believe they have stopped.

Training programmes for suicide pilots had been disrupted, a senior
authoritative source told ITV News.

The Home Office and Metropolitan Police declined to comment on the report.

News of the plots came ahead of a Queen's Speech which is expected to be
dominated by the issue of security.

Numerous Bills tackling terrorism, organised crime and antisocial behaviour have
been trailed.

Home Secretary David Blunkett's more controversial proposals, such as the use in
court of evidence acquired by wire taps, will be shelved until after the general
election expected in May.

However, the Government's programme will set the scene for a poll campaign Tony
Blair is said to want to fight on security. Opponents have accused the Home
Secretary of deliberately creating a climate of fear.

Mr Blunkett has recently insisted that Labour will campaign on hope not fear,
but then warned that forthcoming trials will show al Qaida are "on our doorstep
and threatening lives. "

His comments came after Metropolitan Police Commissioner Sir John Stevens spoke
of his frustration at not being able to talk about anti-terror successes.

MI5 chief Eliza Manningham-Buller also spoke publicly about Britain's success in
thwarting fanatics.

Mr Blair faced accusations of alarmism 18 months ago when troops in armoured
vehicles surrounded Heathrow Airport.

However, the Government insisted that the dramatic action came in response to
specific intelligence.

It was not clear whether it was this event that thwarted one of up to five
strikes reportedly prevented since the 2001 US attacks, and which ITV News was
reporting last night.

Just as in America, pilots were reportedly being trained to crash an aircraft on
the Canary Wharf landmark tower block in London's docklands. The capital's key
airport was also a target, the programme reported.

There were no details of when or where the plot was uncovered, or how close the
fanatics were to success.

One of the most controversial measures the Queen is expected to announce in her
speech today is a move towards the introduction of ID cards as a security
measure.

LOAD-DATE: November 23, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: David Blunkett

TYPE: Newspaper

               Copyright 2004 The Liverpool Daily Post & Echo Ltd

                              256 of 301 DOCUMENTS

                                   Irish News

                               November 23, 2004

Terrorist attacks 'thwarted';

SECTION:  Pg. 3

LENGTH: 178 words


SEPTEMBER 11-style terror attacks on Heathrow Airport and Canary Wharf in London
have been thwarted, it was claimed last night. Plans to crash planes on the two
highprofile targets are among up to five al-Qaida strikes that top British
security officials believe they have stopped. Training programmes for suicide
pilots have been disrupted, a senior source told ITV News. The Home Office and
Metropolitan Police declined to comment. Prime Minister Tony Blair faced
accusations of alarmism 18 months ago when troops in armoured vehicles
surrounded Heathrow Airport. However, the government insisted that the action
had come in response to specific intelligence. It was unclear whether it was
this event that thwarted one of the strikes reportedly prevented since the 2001
US attacks. Just as in America, pilots were being trained to crash an aircraft
on the Canary Wharf landmark tower block in London's docklands, the ITV
programme reported. There were no details of when or where the plot had been
uncovered, nor how close the plans had been to conclusion.

LOAD-DATE: December 23, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 2004 The Irish News Limited

                              257 of 301 DOCUMENTS

                              Liverpool Daily Echo

                           November 23, 2004, Tuesday

TROOPS FIND HOUSE WHERE BIGLEY DIED;
 _ LONDON TERRORIST ATTACKS THWARTED

BYLINE: ALAN WESTON ECHO CORRESPONDENT

SECTION: First Edition; NEWS; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 348 words


THE house in which Liverpoolborn hostage Ken Bigley was murdered by Islamic
militants last month has been found.

American military officers believe the house in Fallujah is where the 62- year
old civil engineer was held, along with other hostages.

The discovery was made as reports emerged last night that British security
services had thwarted September 11 style terror attacks on London's Heathrow
airport and Canary Wharf.

Mr Bigley was kidnapped in Baghdad on September 16, with two American
colleagues. He was shown being beheaded in a video sent to an Arab TV station in
October.

Mr Bigley, whose body has still not been recovered, was filmed in the weeks
leading up to his death in a chicken wire cage, pleading with prime minister
Tony Blair to help save his life.

An Iraqi insurgent captured in southern Fallujah led Iraqi forces to the city
centre house on Friday where he said a British hostage had been held.

US military officials believe his claims to be "credible".

Meanwhile, security chiefs believe they have stopped plans to crash aircraft
into the three skyscrapers in London's docklands, it was reported today.

Heathrow airport was a high-profile target for a possible simultaneous strike,
it was claimed, although there were no details of when or where the plot was
uncovered, or how close the fanatics were to success.

Downing Street, the home office and the metropolitan police declined to comment.

Some of the City's leading companies operate from the Canary Wharf office
complex, including Trinity Mirror, owners of the Liverpool ECHO, and the
Telegraph Group.

The tallest of the three towers reportedly targeted is the 771ft, One Canada
Square 50-storey building and twin neighbours, both 45 storeys high.

Mr Blair faced accusations of alarmism 18 months ago when troops surrounded
Heathrow. The government insisted that the dramatic action came in response to
specific intelligence.

It was not clear whether it was this event that thwarted one of up to five
strikes reportedly prevented since the 2001 US attacks.

LOAD-DATE: November 24, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: LOSS: Ken and wife Sombat

TYPE: Newspaper

               Copyright 2004 The Liverpool Daily Post & Echo Ltd

                              258 of 301 DOCUMENTS

                  UK Newsquest Regional Press - This is Dorset

                               November 23, 2004

ATTACK TERROR ORDEAL OF GIRL 7

BYLINE: Emma Joseph (emma.joseph@bournemouthechoc.o.uk)

LENGTH: 386 words

DATELINE: Dorset


A SEVEN-year-old girl was left bruised and shocked after a man grabbed her in a
terrifying attack outside a Poole school.

She suffered bruised ribs after her attacker threw her to the ground.

Samantha Fudge had been escorted to Hillbourne First School in Kitchener
Crescent in the morning by her older sister Jade 10 who had just left her to
carry on to nearby Haymoor Middle. The man who Samantha later told her mother
had black spiky hair a horrible smell and a squeaky voice grabbed the little
girl from behind putting his arms right around her. He squeezed her tight while
telling her to shut up and then threw her to the ground before running off.

Samantha spent the day at school and did not tell anyone about the attack until
later that evening.

Her mum Linda Ebrahim from nearby Sopers Lane said: "She had a tummy ache and
she was crying when she came home from school.

"I was on the phone trying to get her a doctor's appointment for the next day
and all of a sudden she just blurted out 'Maybe it was the man'.

"She said 'There was a man and he grabbed me'. I just phoned the police straight
away."

Police only released details on Friday of the incident which happened on Monday
at 8.55am.

Ms Ebrahim said Jade had also seen the man but the incident did not happen until
Samantha was on her own.

She added: "I just keep thinking 'if if if'. You hear about these kids that have
been abducted and I'm just so lucky I have her.

"She won't leave the house at the moment she's too scared. The doctor said I
should try and get her back to normal so she went to school on Friday but she
didn't want to go."

Samantha was taken to Poole Hospital for a check-up and is now recovering from
the bruised ribs she suffered during the assault.

Hillbourne First School has since sent out letters to parents informing them of
the incident.

PC Mandy Lawrence from Gravel Hill Police Station said: "This is a frightening
experience for the young girl.

"I'm appealing for anyone who saw the incident the man running away or who saw
suspicious activity in the vicinity of the school to contact Dorset Police in
confidence."

*Anyone with information should call Dorset Police on 01202 222222 in confidence
or Crimestoppers on 0800 555111.

First published: November 20

LOAD-DATE: November 23, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: ATTACK: Samantha Fudge was grabbed outside school;

                  Copyright 2004 NewsQuest Media Group Limited

                              259 of 301 DOCUMENTS

                          THE DAILY TELEGRAPH(LONDON)

                          November 24, 2004, Wednesday

Mayor told of 74 terror plots to attack London

BYLINE: By Celia Walden

SECTION: Features; Spy Pg. 25

LENGTH: 159 words

News that Canary Wharf has been the subject of terrorist plots will come as no
surprise to the Mayor of London, Ken Livingstone.

While security services have been briefing journalists that there have been five
attempted terrorist attacks on London, Livingstone has been privy to much more
extensive information.

"The Mayor of London is briefed on security issues relating to the capital,"
says my highly placed source.

"The last figure discussed was 74 potential attacks over the past 18 months or
so. There are constant attempts to hit high-profile places and people in London,
but the public are never told," he adds.

"The more you beef up security around places such as Westminster, the more
likely it is for terrorists to look for softer targets like schools and
colleges."

The Mayor's office is naturally reluctant to discuss the finer details of these
private meetings. "This is obviously a confidential matter," says his spokesman.

LOAD-DATE: November 24, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 2004 Telegraph Group Limited

                              260 of 301 DOCUMENTS

                UK Newsquest Regional Press - This is Hampshire

                               November 24, 2004

Sisters' terror after bully attack on bus .

BYLINE: Claire Moriarty (author email claire.moriarty@soton-echo.co.uk)

SECTION: News

LENGTH: 629 words

DATELINE: Southampton



A SOUTHAMPTON girl suffered a broken nose, head injuries and a suspected broken
ankle after she and her sister were bullied.

The two girls Rebecca, 12 and her sister, Krystal, 11, were on their way to
school when the attack took place on a bus.

Police are investigating the incident which left Krystal in need of hospital
treatment after she tried to defend her older sister, Rebecca from being
bullied.

Donna Peat, of Magnolia Road, Merry Oak, said her daughters were on their way to
St Anne's Convent School in the city.

They sat upstairs on the bus when a gang of about seven girls and three boys got
on at the Itchen Bridge and told the sisters to move from their seats.

Mrs Peat said: "A girl started pushing my elder daughter, Rebecca, around and
took her glasses. My younger daughter then stepped in and told them to stop and
one of the girls punched her five times in the head, breaking her nose.

"She also sat on Krystal and kicked her in the ankle and a doctor said she might
have sprained or broken her ankle."

But when the girls got to school the torment continued.

Mrs Peat said: "They told Krystal that if she told anyone they would set her
hair alight. So when teachers asked what happened she said she had walked into a
pole."

Krystal went to the school's medical room and a secretary called Mrs Peat who
then collected her daughter.

But when the end of the day neared with Rebecca still at school Krystal broke
down in tears and admitted they had been bullied.

Krystal begged her mother to collect Rebecca before she was attacked again.

"It turns out it has been going on for a while with nobody noticing," said Mrs
Peat.

A spokesman for Hampshire police confirmed the incident had been reported and an
investigation carried out into the attack last Friday.

She said: "A member of the public tried to intervene but was told to keep away.
Officers are looking at CCTV footage. The girls are being interviewed and
inquiries have been carried out at the school and at the hospital into the
extent of the injuries."

Catherine Hargaden, head teacher of St Anne's Convent School, said one girl had
carried out the bullying and disciplinary action had begun.

She said: "We are indeed taking action and take a very strong line on bullying.
There is no doubt that Krystal was hit by another girl on the bus as she
defended her sister. It was just one girl who carried out the bullying. We have
taken statements.

"We do not allow this type of behaviour in our school and it was not until later
in the day that I heard about this incident."

Anyone with information about the attack should call PC Paul Tarr at Bitterne
police station on 0845 045 4545.

ANTI-BULLING CAMPAIGN:

A MAJOR new national campaign has been launched to combat bullying across the
country.

This week more than 50 organisations, including children's charities, schools
and education authorities, are due to participate in Anti-Bullying Week.

More than two-thirds of parents are concerned about bullying in their child's
school and 86 per cent think schools and teachers would benefit from more
support and advice to tackle the problem, according to a new poll.

This week also sees the launch of a series of resources, including lesson plans
and assembly ideas for schools, guidance on effective approaches to tackling
bullying and advice for parents on bullying and the law.

"Parents understandably want to feel reassured that everything is being done to
keep their children safe at school," said Alison O'Brien, chairman of the
Anti-Bullying Alliance and education adviser for the NSPCC.

"We hope that Anti-Bullying Week will kick-start activity in schools and
motivate those working with children to look at methods which are proven to be
successful."


LOAD-DATE: November 24, 2004

LANGUAGE: English

                  Copyright 2004 NewsQuest Media Group Limited

                              261 of 301 DOCUMENTS

                             Yorkshire Evening Post

                               November 24, 2004

Samurai sword attack terror

SOURCE: Yorkshire Evening Post

LENGTH: 365 words


Court told of couple's ordeal on hunt for car

by Geoff Fox

A MAN accompanied by his wife, making enquiries about their car in Batley, was
attacked with a samurai sword, Leeds Crown Court has heard.

During dramatic evidence the man said the words Chop him again were the last he
heard after being attacked by two men - one of whom was wielding the sword.

Tyrone Pringle, from Leeds, told the jury he was slashed across the face and
across the arm by Errol Freeman and Ronald Richards - known as The Terminator -
during the alleged attack in December.

A jury at Leeds Crown Court was yesterday told how his alleged attackers chased
him and his wife for no apparent reason on the afternoon of December 14.

Mr Pringle told the court he had gone to Batley to retrieve his car after
lending it to a friend called Tony. But Tony told him the car had been taken.

Mr Pringle went to the nearby block of flats to speak to a man called Shaun
about his car but his flatmate would not allow him into the flat.

Returning to Tony's flat to pick up his tools Mr Pringle was then joined by his
wife Michelle. They were then approached by the two defendants who Mr Pringle
said were acting in a threatening manner.

Mr Pringle said: They came up towards me and my wife. It was a macho thing. They
both came up and attacked me although not physically.

Richards, 47, of Beckhill Grove, Meanwood and Freeman, 23, of Scott Hall Avenue,
each deny two charges of wounding with intent and affray.

David Cadman, prosecuting, told the jury that at this point Freeman pulled out a
samurai sword from a sheath hidden in Richards' trousers before threatening the
couple.

When Mrs Pringle was spotted trying to call the police on her mobile phone
Freeman allegedly threw a metal pipe at her.

Richards then moved towards Mrs Pringle before he used the sword to strike her
husband twice, first on the arm and then across the face.

Despite denying they knew nothing of the incident in police interviews Mr Cadman
said the jury would hear evidence that showed items had been recovered which
linked them to the attack, namely a pair of Richards' shoes with Tyrone
Pringle's blood on them.

LOAD-DATE: November 25, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                       Copyright 2004 Johnston Press Plc

                              262 of 301 DOCUMENTS

                         The Evening Standard (London)

                               November 25, 2004

100 terror attacks on animal lab staff

BYLINE: BEN LEAPMAN

SECTION: A; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 221 words


ANIMAL rights extremists have launched more than 100 terrifying attacks on the
homes of laboratory workers this year, it emerged today.

In night-time raids, cars were smashed on driveways and Animal Liberation Front
graffiti was daubed on front doors and walls.

The victims all worked for Huntingdon Life Sciences, the company at the centre
of a four-year campaign of violence and intimidation.

The scale of the hate campaign was disclosed by HLS managing director Brian Cass
as the Government unveiled proposals to curb extremists.

Mr Cass, who was beaten by three masked thugs with baseball bats three years
ago, welcomed the moves but warned the clampdown would fail without extra money
for policing.

He estimated between 100 and 150 HLS employees have been targeted in the past 12
months despite an injunction banning protests at their homes. He said: "The most
harrowing part, and the activists know this, is when you take it to someone's
home and family, particularly when there are young children involved."

The proposals include: . a ban on extremists causing harassment, alarm or
distress at their targets' homes.

. powers for police to order protesters away from homes for up to three months.

. extension of anti-harassment laws to protect groups of employees from the same
firm.

LOAD-DATE: November 26, 2004

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                   Copyright 2004 Associated Newspapers Ltd.

                              263 of 301 DOCUMENTS

                                  The Express

                               November 25, 2004

IRAQ TERROR TAPE ATTACKS MUSLIMS; AROUND THE WORLD

SECTION: U.K. 1st Edition; NEWS; Pg. 33

LENGTH: 83 words


FALLUJAH: AN audiotape supposedly made by Jordanian terrorist Abu Musab
al-Zarqawi, and put on the Internet yesterday, attacked Muslim scholars for not
speaking out against American actions in Iraq and Afghanistan.

"You have let us down in the darkest circumstances, " he said.

"Hundreds of thousands of the nation's sons are being slaughtered because of
your silence." Security forces were still hunting al-Zarqawi, leader of Al Qaeda
in Iraq - who is thought to have fled Fallujah.

LOAD-DATE: November 25, 2004

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Newspaper

                       Copyright 2004 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS

                              264 of 301 DOCUMENTS

                            The Independent (London)

                          November 25, 2004, Thursday

THE QUEEN'S SPEECH: KENNEDY ATTACKS HAIN OVER TERROR CLAIMS

BYLINE: ANDREW GRICE POLITICAL EDITOR Peter Hain: Attacked for partisan views on
security; Charles Kennedy attacked Mr Hain's claim as irresponsible and counter-
productive' John Voos

SECTION: First Edition; NEWS; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 776 words


TONY BLAIR was urged last night to stop his ministers "playing politics" with
terrorism after the Leader of the Commons, Peter Hain provoked a storm of
protest by claiming Britain would be safer under Labour than other parties.

Charles Kennedy, the Liberal Democrat leader, wrote to the Prime Minister
expressing his "profound concerns" that terrorism was in danger of becoming a
"party political matter". He condemned as "irresponsible and counterproductive"
the claim by Mr Hain that the terrorist threat would be lower under Labour
because the Government had boosted the security services' budget.

Mr Kennedy said: "At no stage have the Liberal Democrats - nor, to the best of
my knowledge for that matter the Conservatives - have been anything other than
supportive of the substantial additional resources which have been made
available to our vital security services." Calling for the traditional
cross-party consensus on terrorism to be maintained, he asked Mr Blair to make
clear that Mr Hain's remarks would not be repeated.

Downing Street and the Home Office distanced themselves from Mr Hain's claim as
he came under fire from politicians in all parties, including Labour. The row
undermined Mr Blair's attempts to use Tuesday's Queen's Speech to focus the
political spotlight on law and order in the run-up to the general election which
is expected next May.

The outspoken Commons Leader, who first made his claim on Tuesday, repeated it
yesterday when he said: "Britain obviously is vulnerable to terrorist attack and
you can't predict where it would come under any government. My point is if we
are tough on crime and on terrorism as Labour is, then I think Britain will be
safer under Labour, yes.

"The Tories and Liberal Democrats oppose lots of our measures against terrorism
and lots of our measures in tackling crime."

He added that the Tories and Liberal Democrats were "wriggling" because they did
not have a clear alternative.

But John Denham, formerly the Home Office minister responsible for terrorism,
said: "It is obviously the case that, to the security services, to the police,
to the other people professionally involved in protecting us, it will make no
difference to their personal and professional commitment which political party
is in power. You do have to be careful not to suggest that these services are
more on the side of one party than another, because clearly they are not."

Baroness Kennedy, the lawyer and Labour peer, said: "How do we know if Britain
will be less safe under the Conservatives? This American-style campaigning is
regrettable. I want to see a Labour government returned, but I don't want us to
run a campaign based on the idea that it is all about security."

Dame Pauline Neville-Jones, former chairman of the Joint Intelligence Committee,
said: "It is dangerous to start making this into a party political issue. What
we need is trust, and trust means you don't actually try to gain political
advantage out of a very serious issue."

John Major, who was Prime Minister during the 1991 Gulf War, said: "It seems to
be rather a desperate comment that the nation is safer under any one political
party. To make that point is very silly. Did people feel safer after Gulf War
One, when we had a Conservative government, or after Gulf War Two, when we had a
Labour government?"

Michael Ancram, the shadow Foreign Secretary, accused Mr Hain of trying to
create "a climate of fear". He added: "If he goes around saying we are safe from
terrorism under Labour, that is a challenge to the terrorist. It is an
irresponsible thing to do. He is playing party politics with an issue which
really should be above and beyond party politics."

Asked if Mr Blair agreed with Mr Hain's remarks, Downing Street replied: "The
threat we face is real. What the Government is proposing to do is to take
measures which allow it to address that threat in a way that is practical,
sensible and commensurate with the nature of the threat." It denied that the
Government was fostering a climate of fear.

Hazel Blears, the Home Office minister with responsibility for terrorism,
refused to back Mr Hain's warning. Asked if Britain would be a less safe place
under the Tories, she said: "The measures we're bringing in, people have
characterised them as being about fear and insecurity. I would say absolutely
the opposite is the case - it's about bringing safety and security to
communities."

David Blunkett, the Home Secretary, said: "None of us believe that countering
terrorism is about party politics. That is not what Peter was saying, nor is it
what I am advocating."

LOAD-DATE: November 25, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 2004 Independent Print Ltd

                              265 of 301 DOCUMENTS

                                Rugby Advertiser

                               November 25, 2004

Terror at gas attack robbery

LENGTH: 463 words


A TAXI driver from Rugby has described the terrifying moment he was robbed and
attacked with CS spray - but said police are doing little to catch the culprits.

Alvito Desouza, 29, of Craven Road, had just finished his shift at 3.30am on
Friday when the assault happened.

He is now reluctant to return to work and fears the thieves are still at large.
He said: "I don't know if I want to go back to work or not. I've been a driver
for four years and I've had a couple of run-ins before but nothing like this,
where I was actually assaulted. I just thought, why me?

"But I am not going to let them persecute me in my own town. It's nearly
Christmas as well."

Mr. Desouza had parked outside Tesco, in Leicester Road, when he was approached
by a man wanting to go to Brownsover. But just after the man got in the cab, Mr.
Desouza was told to stop the car and two more men got in.

He said: "When I normally finish my shift I go back to the base, but I thought I
may as well take them.

"But then one of them said to me, 'I'm going to f*****g rob you.' I just felt
very angry because I was doing them a favour."

Mr. Desouza tried to turn the car back towards the town but the robbers had not
finished.

He explained: "I tried my best to get back to Leicester Road. God knows how I
did it. But one of the robbers leaned over my seat and tried to grab the
steering wheel. He was leaning right over my shoulder. So I stopped the car,
grabbed the float bag and just ran out.

"I tried running but one of them was after me. He kicked me in my left leg and
shouted, 'Give me your money.'

"He then picked something out of his pocket and sprayed CS gas at me. I was
finding it hard to see and my face was stinging. But if I hadn't worn my glasses
it would have been a lot worse."

After the attack, the robbers ran off towards Brownsover with the float bag,
containing about £60.

A lorry driver saw the incident and stayed with Mr. Desouza until the police
came. He said: "That was quite nice of him. Also one of our drivers, Ian Jones,
came to help me which I really appreciated."

Mr. Desouza has worked for People Express taxi firm for a year and manager
Adrian Watts said: "It's a very unusual occurrence and not something we see very
often. He was just in the wrong place at the wrong time."

At the time of going to press, nobody had been charged with the attack but Mr.
Desouza claims he saw the culprit on Monday.

"I went to the police station and told them, but I was told the officer wasn't
available until Wednesday. I just want the police to deal with it and I want to
get on with my life," he said.

Inspector Pete Wright, of Rugby Police, said: "We are actively pursuing a line
of enquiry."

nicola.clarke@hoenews.com


LOAD-DATE: November 26, 2004

LANGUAGE: English

                           © 2004 Johnston Press Plc

                              266 of 301 DOCUMENTS



                                  M2 Presswire

                               November 26, 2004

Research and Markets: Research and Markets: Wireless Information Warfare: Is it
A New Platform for Terrorist Attack and Communications?

LENGTH: 542 words


M2 PRESSWIRE-NOVEMBER 26, 2004-Research and Markets: Research and Markets:
Wireless Information Warfare: Is it A New Platform for Terrorist Attack and
Communications? ©1994-2004 M2 COMMUNICATIONS LTD

Information warfare changes as technology changes. Technology is used both as a
digital sword and a digital ploughshare. While industry and government work to
develop the democratisation of the Internet and its many supporting
technologies, including wireless appliances and networks, terrorists, drug
cartels, organized crime and many others use these technologies as attack tools
and in scams and fraud that span the scope of the non-digital world. There is a
clear distinction to be drawn between legitimate and illegitimate, right and
wrong, uses of e-commerce and technology tools. But as so often occurs with new
technologies, sometimes the lines of distinction are blurred by a lack of
familiarity with the technology by those who seem to proliferate for the good of
society. Unfortunately, this is the case with wireless technology. For example,
the United Nations, the International Monetary Fund, the World Bank, and many
technology companies envision a wireless world in which the have-not nations
become the recipients of wireless networks.

Research and Markets (http://www.researchandmarkets.com/reports/c10189) has
announced the addition of Wireless Information Warfare: A New Platform for
Terrorist Attack and Communications to their offering

Not only is the growth potential nearly unlimited, such networks can be deployed
swiftly, bringing opportunity to every nation. These, clearly, are laudable
goals. However, the law of unintended consequences illustrates how much these
institutions do not know about security, and why these wireless deployments can
help create wireless attack platforms from which terrorists and others may
operate with anonymity and impunity. The integration of Internet and mobile
technologies has created a sea-change momentum that has a decided dark
underside. Once again, the rapid advance of technology is dramatically outpacing
the ability to secure it. While history shows that this dynamic is nothing new,
these deployments are creating new threats that have not been well-defined, let
alone considered as exploitable vulnerabilities and how to prevent them.

This market report examines the threats associated with Wireless Information.

Topics covered include:

- The Unreliability of Information

- Setting the Stage for the Wireless Cyber Threat

- Converging Threats

- Security Versus Technology: The Classic Conflict

- Wireless Proliferation

- Wireless Technology and the United Nations: An Unintended Consequence

- Critical Infrastructure Risk and Wireless

- Wireless Threats and the Future

- Wireless Responsibility

- Conclusion

For more information visit http://www.researchandmarkets.com/reports/c10189

CONTACT: Laura Wood, Senior Manager, Research and Markets Fax: +353 1 4100 980
e-mail: press@researchandmarkets.com e-mail: laura@researchandmarkets.com

(M2 Communications Ltd disclaims all liability for information provided within
M2 PressWIRE. Data supplied by named party/parties. Further information on M2
PressWIRE can be obtained at http://www.presswire.net on the world wide web.
Inquiries to info@m2.com).

LOAD-DATE: December 9, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSWIRE


                     Copyright  2004 Normans Media Limited
                              All rights reserved

                              267 of 301 DOCUMENTS

                     Belfast News Letter (Northern Ireland)

                           November 29, 2004, Monday

GUN ATTACK TERROR

SECTION: 1st Edition; NEWS; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 93 words


THIRTEEN people in the living-room of a house in Portadown escaped injury after
a number of shots were fired in an early morning gun attack yesterday.

One round struck the frame of the living-room window in the nationalist Garvaghy
Road at around 4am.

Police do not believe it was racially motivated or sectarian.

The incident was condemned by nationalist SDLP Assembly member Dolores Kelly.

"Details surrounding this incident are still a bit sketchy, but no matter what
the motive for such action it is completely wrong ," she said.

LOAD-DATE: November 30, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

                   Copyright 2004 Century Newspapers Limited

                              268 of 301 DOCUMENTS

                     The Guardian (London) - Final Edition

                               November 30, 2004

Aznar asserts ties between Eta and Islamists over Madrid terror attack

BYLINE: Giles Tremlett in Madrid

SECTION: Guardian Foreign Pages, Pg. 12

LENGTH: 621 words


The former Spanish prime minister Jose Maria Aznar gave his implicit backing
yesterday to a conspiracy theory winning support on Spain's political right,
which claims that the Basque terrorist group Eta was involved in the train
bombings in Madrid which killed 191 people.

"There is absolute proof that shows . . . a connection between Eta terrorists
and Islamic terrorism," he said during an eleven-hour appearance before a
parliamentary investigation, in which he was challenged over his government's
handling of the bombings last March.

"I ask that all this connection be investigated without reservations and the
results of this investigation be made public," he said. "What is strange to me
is that there is no will to investigate it. I am one of those who believe that
all (forms of) terrorism end up being connected."

Mr Aznar's conservative People's party lost an election three days after the
attacks partly because voters mistrusted his government's initial insistence
that Eta, rather than Islamists, was to blame.

Videotapes made by a group of armed Islamists who blew themselves up when
surrounded by police, a few weeks later in a Madrid dormitory town have since
shown that they and other Islamist radicals carried out the attacks with a dozen
bombs planted on four commuter trains.

Few independent experts give credence to the conspiracy theory despite a growing
insistence in some circles that certain coincidences cannot be explained by
luck. These coincidences include contacts between Eta members and Islamists in
Spanish jails as well as the fact that the bombers and Eta chose the same day to
move large quantities of explosives towards Madrid.

Police investigators have said that no Eta connection to the attacks has been
proven.

Mr Aznar denied allegations that his government either lied or tried to cover-up
the truth about the Islamist authorship of the attacks. "My conscience is clear
. . . we told the truth about what we knew," he said. "The judgment of the
police was that there was more than enough background and recent precedent to
think that it was (Eta) that committed the attacks."

The former prime minister also denied that the attacks had anything to do with
his support for President George Bush and the war in Iraq. "These attacks were
being prepared long before the Iraq war. They were not the result of the Iraq
war even though many people said so," he said.

The attacks had been planned in order to change the results of elections that
his party had been expected to win, he said. "They sought to overturn the
electoral situation in Spain," Mr Aznar said.

"Your government lied and for this reason on March 14 there was an electoral
surprise. That's all there is to it," one parliamentary commission member, Joan
Puig of the Republican Left of Catalonia, said.

The Socialist party, through organisation secretary Jose Blanco, accused Mr
Aznar of presenting himself "as a victim of a universal plot including
terrorists, political parties, journalists and all the citizens who did not vote
for the People's party."

Small groups of demonstrators gathered in the street leading up to the
parliament building in Madrid yesterday, with some waving Spanish flags and
shouting "Aznar, you will always be my president!"

A separate group that said it represented relatives of those killed and maimed
by the bombings held up hands painted in red and shouted: "Aznar is
responsible!"

Jose Luis Rodriguez Zapatero, the prime minister, is due to testify on December
13.

Sixteen people, mostly of Moroccan origin, have been jailed on provisional
charges of mass murder or terrorism in connection with the bombings.

guardian.co.uk/spain


LOAD-DATE: November 30, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 2004 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              269 of 301 DOCUMENTS

                                Hull Daily Mail

                               November 30, 2004

Nurse's knife attack terror

SECTION: News; Other; Others; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 251 words


A Nurse slashed by a man wielding a craft knife on her way home from a night out
has spoken of her ordeal.  The 25-year-old, who is too frightened to be named,
was cornered by four men as she walked a short distance to her Bilton home after
being dropped off in a taxi.

One of the men held a knife to her face and ordered her to hand over her bag.

The terrified woman turned and tried to escape and it was then she realised she
had been cornered by the gang.

She tried to escape again and as she ran, holding her bag, one of the men lashed
out at her with the knife. It left a deep one-inch long cut near her eye.

"I thought they were going to rape me. I was so frightened. I didn't consciously
decide not to hand over my bag. I was just looking for a way out.

"I knew he wanted to hurt me what- ever. I suppose I was lucky, he could have
blinded me." She was attacked at about 11pm on Sunday, November 7, in a lit
alley between Diadem Grove and Tedworth Road. The Hull Royal Infirmary Nurse,
who is back at work, said she would never walk that route again.

She was so traumatised by the attack she slept alongside her mum, also a nurse,
for days after.

She has only just returned to her own home of four months and will not leave it
with out an escort.

"My dad takes me everywhere, including work." Police described the attack as
"terrifying" and are appealing for witnesses.

Anyone with information should call Humberside Police on (01482) 597 500.


LOAD-DATE: December 1, 2004

LANGUAGE: English

                         Copyright 2004 Hull Daily Mail

                              270 of 301 DOCUMENTS

                            Lancashire Evening Post

                               November 30, 2004

Women warned after terror attack

SOURCE: Lancashire Evening Post

LENGTH: 361 words


This is the man believed to have launched a daylight attack on a Leyland woman.


Now police are warning other women to be on their guard after the mugging in
Moss Side.


At 12.25pm on Monday November 15, the 39-year-old woman left her mother's house
to go to the post


office in Dunkirk Lane.


She walked from Slater Lane across a footpath and into the post office, but, as
she left, she saw a man loitering in the area.


At first the woman thought the man was waiting for a woman, aged about 60, to
pass.


But, as she walked along the lane, the man approached her and said: "Give me
your money and I'll leave you alone."


The woman went into shock and broke down in tears, telling her attacker that she
did not have any money to give him.


The man told her to hand over her purse, saying: "If you hand it over I won't
harm you."


The woman again insisted she had no money and a scuffle broke out.


The woman fell to the ground and the robber put his hand over her nose and
mouth.


He straddled his terrified victim on the pavement, ordering her not to scream.


The woman was gasping for breath as the mugger grabbed the strap of her bag,
swearing and accusing her of lying.


The robber climbed off her and made off empty handed towards Slater Lane when
she started crying again.


Police are hunting the attacker and have warned women to be on their guard.


The man has been seen in the area on a number of occasions and police urge women
to beware when out alone.


After the attack the woman told police her attacker was between 18 and 20, of
medium build, with quite a broad face.


He had large, chubby hands, was about 5ft 7in to 5ft 8in and was quite muscular.
He wore blue denim jeans, a canvas waist-length jacket and a grey beanie hat.


He was unshaven, with short dark hair, and smelled unclean and of tobacco.


Anyone with information should contact Leyland CID on 01772 415845 or
Crimestoppers on 0800 555 111.


Police particularly want to speak to the pensioner who was spotted in the area
at the time of the attack.


LOAD-DATE: December 1, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                       Copyright 2004 Johnston Press Plc

                              271 of 301 DOCUMENTS

                                Birmingham Post

                           December 4, 2004, Saturday

BAGHDAD TERROR ATTACKS KILL 30 AS AL-ZARQAWI FANATICS RISE AGAIN

SECTION: First Edition; NEWS; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 358 words


In some of the worst violence in recent weeks in Baghdad, rebels launched
attacks against Iraqi security forces in the capital yesterday, killing at least
30 people.

The surge in violence appeared to indicate that militants still can stage
attacks, despite major military campaigns aimed at quelling the insurgency.

A statement posted on an Islamic Web site in the name of Jordanian terrorist Abu
Musab al-Zarqawi, claimed responsibility for a raid on a police station in
Baghdad and for attacks elsewhere in Iraq. His group also beheaded British
hostage Ken Bigley.

US commanders and Iraq's interim authorities hope to boost security in the
mainly Sunni areas of central and northern Iraq ahead of next month's national
elections, following calls by prominent Sunni politicians who urged them to
postpone the ballot in view of the escalating violence.

The visiting Nato commander expressed surprise yesterday that the insurgency in
Iraq had proven so resilient, in contrast to the situation in Afghanistan where
he said the security situation had improved significantly.

'I am very pleased with what is going on in Afghanistan ... but at the beginning
I would have projected the opposite with Iraq coming along faster,' General
James Jones said in Baghdad.

The apparently coordinated attacks in Baghdad began just before 6am local time,
when 11 carloads of gunmen drove up to the police station in the city's western
Amil district and attacked it with rocket-propelled grenades and small-arms
fire.

They broke into the building, killing 16 policemen, looting weapons, torching
several cars and setting free about 35 detainees.

The claim from al-Zarqawi's group said 30 people were killed in the Amil attack
and only two escaped.

Later in the morning, in the Sunni Muslim stronghold of Azamiyah, a car bomb
exploded at a Shi'ite mosque called Hameed al-Najar - killing 14 people and
wounding 19, hospital sources said.

The imam of the nearby Sunni Abu Hanifa mosque immediately condemned the attack.
saying that 'innocent people' were killed and that mosques as well as market
places should not be targeted.

LOAD-DATE: December 5, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

               Copyright 2004 Midland Independent Newspapers plc

                              272 of 301 DOCUMENTS

                               Belfast Telegraph

                                December 6, 2004

Ukraine government ready to fake terrorist attacks, says official

BYLINE: By Askold Krushelnycky in Kiev

LENGTH: 574 words


Ukraine's embattled government is ready to stage faked terrorist attacks to
destabilise the country and discredit the opposition ahead of a rerun of the
presidential vote, a senior government source has told The Independent.

The official, who works for the government of the Moscow-backed candidate and
current Prime Minister Viktor Yanukovych, said: "One of the plans is to blow up
a pipeline and blame it on opposition supporters. Ukraine is the key transit
country for Russian gas supplies to the West."

Mr Yanukovych's backers fear the prospect of their candidate losing to Viktor
Yushchenko and are ready to plunge the country into economic chaos, the source
revealed. "They are planning to use criminals - plain bandits - that they have a
hold over." The source said that a senior member of the government had been
tasked with overseeing terrorist acts.

A fortnight of peaceful demonstrations by supporters of Mr Yushchenko have
brought the capital, Kiev, and other cities to a standstill. They accused the
government of massive electoral fraud in a presidential election on 21 November.
The opposition claims were backed up by Western governments and election
monitors who reported that intimidation, bribery and falsification were used to
hand victory to Mr Yanukovych.

Ukraine's supreme court accepted opposition claims and last Friday cancelled the
result of the election, ordering a fresh ballot for 26 December.

Supporters of Mr Yanukovych and the current President Leonid Kuchma will also
seek to play on fears that inflation will wipe out people's savings as it did
after the disintegration of the Soviet Union.

There has already been a run on banks and black market money changers are
returning to the streets with far higher dollar and euro exchange rates.

The government has already suggested that it will not be able to pay pensions
and government salaries in December, although the opposition claims there are
adequate reserves to pay everything.

Last week, the opposition passed a motion in parliament firing Mr Yanukovych and
his government. But his political mentor, Mr Kuchma - himself facing accusations
of rampant corruption and involvement in murder - has refused to approve the
dismissal or change the composition of the election commission blamed for
supervising the electoral fraud.

Russia has openly backed Mr Yanukovych, and President Vladimir Putin visited
Ukraine twice to rally the country's Russian ethnic population to vote for the
Prime Minister.

The government source told The Independent that Mr Putin said, at a meeting with
Mr Kuchma in Moscow last Thursday, that Russia will back the Ukrainian
government whatever measures it takes, including force, in order to stop Mr
Yushchenko winning.

Many sections of the Ukrainian armed forces and police have either said they
will not take action against Ukrainian demonstrators or will defend the
opposition if necessary.

The opposition yesterdaycompiled lists of supporters, seeking to recruit as many
as possible to act as election monitors and campaign workers in the 26 December
vote. Mr Yushchenko has called on the international community to send as many
observers as possible to the elections.

There has been speculation that the opposition is facing a rift after a spat in
parliament this weekend between Mr Yushchenko's coalition and the Socialist
leader Aleksander Moroz, an ally of the opposition.


LOAD-DATE: December 6, 2004

LANGUAGE: English

TYPE: Paper

                Copyright 2004 Belfast Telegraph Newspapers Ltd.

                              273 of 301 DOCUMENTS

                            The Independent (London)

                            December 6, 2004, Monday

OPPOSITION WAS TO BE SMEARED WITH TERROR ATTACK, SAYS OFFICIAL

BYLINE: ASKOLD KRUSHELNYCKY IN KIEV Leonid Kuchma: Facing allegations of
corruption; Yushchenko supporters in Kiev's main square receiving leaflets
yesterday thanking them for their support AP

SECTION: Final Edition; FOREIGN NEWS; Pg. 19

LENGTH: 575 words


UKRAINE'S EMBATTLED government is ready to stage faked terrorist attacks to
destabilise the country and discredit the opposition ahead of a rerun of the
presidential vote, a senior government source has told The Independent.

The official, who works for the government of the Moscow-backed candidate and
current Prime Minister Viktor Yanukovych, said: "One of the plans is to blow up
a pipeline and blame it on opposition supporters. Ukraine is the key transit
country for Russian gas supplies to the West."

Mr Yanukovych's backers fear the prospect of their candidate losing to Viktor
Yushchenko and are ready to plunge the country into economic chaos, the source
revealed. "They are planning to use criminals - plain bandits - that they have a
hold over." The source said that a senior member of the government had been
tasked with overseeing terrorist acts.

A fortnight of peaceful demonstrations by supporters of Mr Yushchenko have
brought the capital, Kiev, and other cities to a standstill. They accused the
government of massive electoral fraud in a presidential election on 21 November.
The opposition claims were backed up by Western governments and election
monitors who reported that intimidation, bribery and falsification were used to
hand victory to Mr Yanukovych.

Ukraine's supreme court accepted opposition claims and last Friday cancelled the
result of the election, ordering a fresh ballot for 26 December.

Supporters of Mr Yanukovych and the current President Leonid Kuchma will also
seek to play on fears that inflation will wipe out people's savings as it did
after the disintegration of the Soviet Union.

There has already been a run on banks and black market money changers are
returning to the streets with far higher dollar and euro exchange rates.

The government has already suggested that it will not be able to pay pensions
and government salaries in December, although the opposition claims there are
adequate reserves to pay everything.

Last week, the opposition passed a motion in parliament firing Mr Yanukovych and
his government. But his political mentor, Mr Kuchma - himself facing accusations
of rampant corruption and involvement in murder - has refused to approve the
dismissal or change the composition of the election commission blamed for
supervising the electoral fraud.

Russia has openly backed Mr Yanukovych, and President Vladimir Putin visited
Ukraine twice to rally the country's Russian ethnic population to vote for the
Prime Minister.

The government source told The Independent that Mr Putin said, at a meeting with
Mr Kuchma in Moscow last Thursday, that Russia will back the Ukrainian
government whatever measures it takes, including force, in order to stop Mr
Yushchenko winning.

Many sections of the Ukrainian armed forces and police have either said they
will not take action against Ukrainian demonstrators or will defend the
opposition if necessary.

The opposition yesterday compiled lists of supporters, seeking to recruit as
many as possible to act as election monitors and campaign workers in the 26
December vote. Mr Yushchenko has called on the international community to send
as many observers as possible to monitor the elections.

There has been speculation that the opposition is facing a rift after a spat in
parliament this weekend between Mr Yushchenko's coalition and the Socialist
leader Aleksander Moroz, an ally of the opposition.

LOAD-DATE: December 6, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 2004 Independent Print Ltd

                              274 of 301 DOCUMENTS

                               Belfast Telegraph

                                December 7, 2004

Israeli jailed for role in terror group that attacked Arab schools

BYLINE: By Donald Macintyre in Jerusalem

LENGTH: 436 words


An extreme right Jewish settler convicted under counter-terrorism legislation
for membership of an organisation that killed eight Palestinian civilians was
jailed for eight years yesterday.

Shahar Dvir-Zeliger, a member of the "new Jewish underground" was also found
guilty in Jerusalem district court of illegal possession of arms stolen from the
Israeli Defence Forces stores. Zeliger belonged to the "Bat Ayin" group, held
responsible for several attacks including one which killed a baby, and an ambush
on a car in July, 2001, in which three Palestinians were shot dead.

During the investigation, Zeliger led police to the group's massive weapons
cache containing guns, anti-tank rockets, and ammunition stolen from Israeli
Army weapons stores and bunkers in the West Bank. The cache was hidden in caves
near his home in the West Bank settlement of Adi Ad.

The counter-terrorism order under which Zeliger was convicted was last used in
the 1980s against members of the "Jewish underground" who bombed the cars of
Arab mayors in the West Bank and mounted a shooting attack at the Islamic
University in Hebron in which three students were killed.

Judge Yoram Noam said the prison term was the longest he could impose in view of
the cooperation shown by Zeliger during the police investigation, which
established that some of the weapons had been used to kill Palestinians. But he
declared: "The phenomenon of Jewish citizens of Israel belonging to a terrorist
organisation aiming to harm Arab residents needs to be eradicated by severe
punishment."

In September, Judge Noam acquitted Zeliger of charges of breaking into a
building and stealing weapons, arguing that it was likely that someone else
stole the weapons. He was also acquitted of possession of TNT.

Eight people were arrested on the basis of the defendant's testimony, most of
whom were subsequently released for lack of evidence. Although Zeliger admitted
last year that he was a member of a group that shot Palestinians to death,
police were unable to link Zeliger directly to the killings.

But three members of the same group were convicted in 2003 for a bombing at a
Palestinian school in east Jerusalem in 2002 that injured a teacher and four
children. Four other Bat Ayin members, arrested with a bomb they were accused of
planning to use against another Arab school, were released in a plea bargain.

The prosecutor, Dan Eldad, said yesterday: "This is the first time an Israeli
court has ruled that there are Jewish terrorist organisations aiming to hurt
innocent Arabs, especially children in schools."


LOAD-DATE: December 7, 2004

LANGUAGE: English

TYPE: Paper

                Copyright 2004 Belfast Telegraph Newspapers Ltd.

                              275 of 301 DOCUMENTS

                                THE BRISTOL POST

                                December 7, 2004

Mock terrorist attacks are a success

SECTION: News; Other; Others; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 415 words


A Number of mock terrorist attacks have been staged in the last couple of years
to see how emergency services would cope with the real thing.  One of the
largest was held at a London Underground station in September 2003. Dozens of
police cadets pretended to be casualties of a chemical attack on a train, with
firefighters and ambulance crews getting the chance to test millions of pounds
worth of new equipment.

The exercise began when the train driver reported the attack and stopped the
tube in a tunnel 50 yards short of Bank station. About 500 firefighters,
paramedics and transport workers then worked to recover and treat the 60
'casualties' on board, bringing them to street level to decontaminate them in
special shower tents.

The area immediately surrounding Bank station was cordoned off and designated as
a "hot zone", while decontamination units were set up in a surrounding "warm
zone" upwind of the centre of the site.  Staff at University College Hospital,
which closed its doors for three hours during the operation, were also involved.
'Victims' arrived at the hospital about 90 minutes after the mock incident and
were treated by medical staff in protective clothing.

Another exercise to train troops and emergency services to deal with a chemical
attack was held in November 2003. Nearly 900 soldiers, police officers,
firefighters and paramedics took part in the simulated incident at Dalton
Barracks, near Abingdon, Oxfordshire.

The Territorial Army troops involved - from the Thames Valley and Hampshire -
were part of the new Civil Contingencies Reaction Force (CCRF).

Set up in the aftermath of the terror attacks of September 11 attacks, the force
is designated to come under police command in the event of natural disasters,
accidents or terrorist attacks.

The exercise saw those troops establishing a centre to cope with a large-scale
evacuation after a "major chemical incident". Meanwhile, fire and rescue
services from Oxfordshire, Buckinghamshire and Berkshire sealed off the area and
began a mock decontamination.

More recently, in June this year, a major anti- terrorism operation in Scotland
was hailed a success by police.

The training exercise reportedly involved a mock terrorist attack on an oil
platform, requiring special forces troops to storm the platform.

Details were kept tightly under wraps before hand, but internet leaks revealed
that up to 11 Lynx, Sea King and Chinook helicopters were involved.


LOAD-DATE: December 8, 2004 0712BRISEP2F4mockt

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: News

                      Copyright 2004 Bristol United Press

                              276 of 301 DOCUMENTS



                              Flight International

                                December 7, 2004

Terror Shields;
Israeli companies are leading the way in developing countermeasures equipment to
protect airliners from terrorist missile attacks

BYLINE: Craig Hoyle / Ashdod, Haifa, Ramat Hasharon & Tel Aviv

SECTION: FEATURES; Israel: Countermeasures; Pg. 46

LENGTH: 590  words


Israeli industry has for many years developed sophisticated countermeasures
equipment for use by military operators, with its systems protecting fighters,
attack and utility helicopters and transport aircraft. However, Israel is now
leading the way in equipping its airliners with a self-protection capability.
This requirement emerged in the wake of a failed terrorist attempt to shoot down
an Arkia-operated Boeing 757 departing Mombasa in Kenya in November 2002 using
shoulder-launched surface-to-air missiles.

'Dark flares'

Israel Aircraft Industries' Elta Systems subsidiary will this month begin work
to install its Flight Guard countermeasures system on an El Al aircraft, with a
later decision expected to extend this work to the airline's all-Boeing fleet of
30 aircraft, which comprises 737, 747, 757, 767 and 777 models. The
modifications are expected to cost around $1 million per airframe, and will
equip the aircraft with a missile approach warning system and "dark flares" to
defeat incoming heat-seeking missiles. Israel Military Industries is teamed with
Elta in developing and marketing the design.

Long term, Elta is working on an infrared (IR)-based countermeasures system for
aircraft that will develop a detector currently in use aboard naval vessels.
However, the company believes it will be another three to eight years before
such technology matures, giving its Flight Guard design a short-term advantage
over a second Israeli team now pursuing airliner protection deals.

Elisra -- in which Elta has a 30% shareholding -- has joined Elbit Systems and
Rafael to develop a directed infrared countermeasures system. Already selected
for future integration with commercial aircraft, the Lorica design will use an
eye-safe laser, have a low cost of use and a low false alarm rate, says Elisra's
senior vice-president Menahem Oren.

Lorica is a further development of Elisra's passive approach warning system,
which equips the Israeli air force's Bell AH-1 Cobra attack helicopter fleet and
is being integrated with the service's new and modified Boeing AH-64D Apache
Longbows. The design is in use on around 410 helicopters of 14 types, with
operators including Australia, Canada, Germany and Romania, and is also being
promoted to the UK. A version of the system is also in service with the Israeli
air force's Lockheed Martin F-16I multirole fighters.

Jamming

Rafael is a leading supplier of electronic warfare and countermeasures systems,
including the X-Guard towed decoy promoted for large aircraft such as the Airbus
Military A400M and Lockheed Martin C-130J. It is also developing the Top Scan
radar warning receiver to provide accurate geo-location information on
battlefield threats, potentially for targeting purposes.

The Skyshield support jamming system, also in development, is designed to
protect a formation of up to 20 aircraft without the need to field a dedicated
jamming aircraft type. System elements have already been tested sat Israel's
national electronic warfare range -- run by Rafael -- using an air force
McDonnell Douglas F-4 Phantom. Once operational, Skyshield will provide 360°
coverage in the 1-18GHz range.

Other safety systems developed in Israel include an airbag crash protection
system for large helicopters and modular armour for use in helicopters and
transport aircraft. Privately owned Plasan Sasa has fitted its modular armour
system to Israel's Sikorsky UH-60 Black Hawks and floor and side armour for
Boeing CH-47 Chinook transports for the Netherlands and the UK (Flight
International , 6-12 July).

LOAD-DATE: December 14, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Magazine


 Copyright 2004 Reed Business Information, UK, a division of Reed Elsevier Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              277 of 301 DOCUMENTS

                            The Independent (London)

                           December 7, 2004, Tuesday

ISRAELI JAILED FOR ROLE IN TERROR GROUP THAT ATTACKED ARAB SCHOOLS

BYLINE: DONALD MACINTYRE IN JERUSALEM

SECTION: First Edition; FOREIGN NEWS; Pg. 27

LENGTH: 435 words


AN EXTREME right Jewish settler convicted under counter-terrorism legislation
for membership of an organisation that killed eight Palestinian civilians was
jailed for eight years yesterday.

Shahar Dvir-Zeliger, a member of the "new Jewish underground" was also found
guilty in Jerusalem district court of illegal possession of arms stolen from the
Israeli Defence Forces stores. Zeliger belonged to the "Bat Ayin" group, held
responsible for several attacks including one which killed a baby, and an ambush
on a car in July, 2001, in which three Palestinians were shot dead.

During the investigation, Zeliger led police to the group's massive weapons
cache containing guns, anti-tank rockets, and ammunition stolen from Israeli
Army weapons stores and bunkers in the West Bank. The cache was hidden in caves
near his home in the West Bank settlement of Adi Ad.

The counter-terrorism order under which Zeliger was convicted was last used in
the 1980s against members of the "Jewish underground" who bombed the cars of
Arab mayors in the West Bank and mounted a shooting attack at the Islamic
University in Hebron in which three students were killed.

Judge Yoram Noam said the prison term was the longest he could impose in view of
the cooperation shown by Zeliger during the police investigation, which
established that some of the weapons had been used to kill Palestinians. But he
declared: "The phenomenon of Jewish citizens of Israel belonging to a terrorist
organisation aiming to harm Arab residents needs to be eradicated by severe
punishment."

In September, Judge Noam acquitted Zeliger of charges of breaking into a
building and stealing weapons, arguing that it was likely that someone else
stole the weapons. He was also acquitted of possession of TNT.

Eight people were arrested on the basis of the defendant's testimony, most of
whom were subsequently released for lack of evidence. Although Zeliger admitted
last year that he was a member of a group that shot Palestinians to death,
police were unable to link Zeliger directly to the killings.

But three members of the same group were convicted in 2003 for a bombing at a
Palestinian school in east Jerusalem in 2002 that injured a teacher and four
children. Four other Bat Ayin members, arrested with a bomb they were accused of
planning to use against another Arab school, were released in a plea bargain.

The prosecutor, Dan Eldad, said yesterday: "This is the first time an Israeli
court has ruled that there are Jewish terrorist organisations aiming to hurt
innocent Arabs, especially children in schools."

LOAD-DATE: December 7, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 2004 Independent Print Ltd

                              278 of 301 DOCUMENTS

                                  Irish News
                                   Irish News

                      December 07, 2004 December 07, 2004

Fears over oil output in wake of Saudi terrorist attacks;
 Property firms hit gold at awards;

SECTION:  Pg. 25 Pg. 25

LENGTH: 483 words


OIL prices were forced higher yesterday by an outbreak of violence in Saudi
Arabia and concerns that Opec may cut output.

The cost of a barrel of light, sweet crude oil climbed to S43.31 after gunmen
stormed the US consulate in Jeddah and took several staff hostage.

NORTHERN Ireland companies have struck gold at the Irish Property Awards in
Dublin, organised by Property Week, the UK's leading weekly newspaper for the
commercial property sector.

The north's first and only international outlet centre, Junction One in Antrim,
claimed the Northern Ireland Commercial Development of the Year prize.

The news diverted the attention of traders from a meeting of oil cartel Opec in
Cairo on Friday, which will set output quotas for the first quarter of next
year.

Oil prices fell 14 per cent last week after it emerged that US stocks were
higher than previously thought, ahead of the peak season for demand in January
and February.

It put markets on alert to a possible production cut by Opec to defend oil
prices, or a new target range of S28-35 for the cost of crude.

Opec has been pumping out crude at a record 30 million barrels a day since
September, and Iranian oil officials were yesterday quoted as saying a cut of
500,000 barrels is necessary.

With the US dollar close to a record low against the euro and weak against other
major currencies, a production cut would prop up prices and protect oil revenues
for Opec.

Crude prices were also driven higher yesterday by potential supply disruptions
in southern Nigeria, after protesters forced two oil platforms to shut down
production.

The news contributed to the FTSE 100 Index sliding downwards, and many companies
with high fuel bills were especially affected.

Junction One - whose partnership comprises CUSP, The Kennedy Group, Dunalastair
(Ireland) Ltd and Guinea Group - was praised as an exceptional commercial
design.

Mallusk-based CUSP was named as Northern Ireland Commercial Developer of the
Year for the second time running. As well as Junction One, CUSP was recognised
for projects including the Diamond Centre in Coleraine and Lisburn Square. And
Osborne King scooped the title of Northern Ireland Commercial Agent of the year.

Osborne King has been at the forefront of shopping centre and retail development
in the north for several decades, handling schemes such as CastleCourt and
Forestside in Belfast, the Quays in Newry, Fairhill in Ballymena, Harbour
Exchange at Holywood and Shane Retail Park on Belfast's Boucher Road.

The Irish Property Awards showcase the achievements of the Irish commercial and
residential property scene, with winners voted for by a panel of 30
professionals involved in the sector. Fourteen awards were presented to agencies
and property development companies across Ireland in recognition of outstanding
performances.

LOAD-DATE: December 23, 2004 December 23, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

  Copyright 2004 The Irish News Limited Copyright 2004 The Irish News Limited

                              279 of 301 DOCUMENTS

                        Western Morning News (Plymouth)

                                December 7, 2004

Eight killed in terror attack on us consulate

SECTION: News; Other; Others; Pg. 40

LENGTH: 710 words


Eight people, including five local staff, were killed in a three-hour attack on
the US consulate in the Saudi Arabian city of Jeddah yesterday.  EIGHT people,
including five local staff, were killed in a three-hour attack on the US
consulate in the Saudi Arabian city of Jeddah yesterday.

In a bold attack, Islamic militants threw explosives at the gate of the heavily
guarded consulate and then forced their way into the building and held civilians
at gunpoint, prompting a gun battle.

Al Qaida later claimed responsibility for the attack.

The Interior Ministry said three of the five attackers were killed, with the
other two wounded and in custody.

Saudi security officials initially said four Saudi officers also died, but
Interior Ministry spokesman Brigadier General Mansour al-Turki later said that
no officers were killed. He said one was seriously injured.

No Americans were killed or held at gunpoint, and just one American was slightly
injured as consulate employees were rushed to a safe area in the compound as the
attack began, a State Department official said.

It was the first major strike by militants inside Saudi Arabia since May and
seemed a clear sign that the Saudi government's crackdown on al Qaida linked
extremists has not yet entirely succeeded. President Bush said the attack showed
"terrorists" are trying to intimidate Americans and force the United States to
withdraw from Saudi Arabia and Iraq.

"They want us to grow timid and weary in the face of their willingness to kill
randomly, kill innocent people," Bush said at the White House after a meeting
with interim Iraqi President Ghazi al-Yawer. "That's why these elections in Iraq
are very important." Bush also thanked Saudi Arabia for quelling the attack and
said more would be learned about who was behind it.

The Saudi Cabinet, following a session led by Crown Prince Abdullah, condemned
the attack and reaffirmed "the Saudi kingdom's determination to fight terrorism
in all its aspects and to hunt down perpetrators." The attack prompted the US
Embassy in Riyadh to urge thousands of Americans in the country to "exercise
utmost security precautions." Saudi officials blamed the attack on a "deviant"
group - their way of identifying al Qaida extremists.

The attackers sneaked behind an embassy car that was entering the consulate
through the gate, then lobbed hand grenades at guards to take control of the
area, al-Turki said.

The attackers also used grenades designed to create fires and send up heavy
smoke. Plumes of black smoke could be seen rising in the air shortly after the
attack.

After getting inside the compound's outer security wall, the attackers seized
about 18 people at gunpoint, said a senior Saudi official in Washington.

Those held were mostly either in the area - which is like a courtyard - applying
for visas, or employees who worked there, the official said. The attackers never
made it inside the consulate's buildings, Al-Turki said.

Saudi security forces, including snipers, could be seen on the rooftops around
the consulate compound, and helicopters hovered overhead.

At one point, the attackers called a local police station to report they had
hostages and would begin killing them unless Saudi security forces backed away
from the compound, according to the Saudi official in Washington.

As the call was ending, Saudi security forces stormed the area and fought a
short gun battle, the official said.

Al-Turki denied anyone was held hostage, but said the attackers did hurt those
they came across in the courtyard area.

The attack came a week after the deputy leader of al Qaida, Ayman al-Zawahri,
warned in a videotape that Washington must change its policies or face more
attacks by the terror group.

Saudi and US officials have blamed al Qaida, led by Saudi-born Osama bin Laden,
for all major militant attacks in the kingdom since May 2003.

On Islamic militant websites, contributors began hailing the attack even before
it was over, with one person praising it as "destruction of a bastion of
atheism".

"We were afraid about our brothers in the Arab peninsula, but this proves that
they are well and sound, thank God," said the person who made the posting.


LOAD-DATE: March 29, 2005

LANGUAGE: English

                      Copyright 2004 Western Morning News

                              280 of 301 DOCUMENTS

                           Coventry Evening Telegraph

                          December 8, 2004, Wednesday

US WARNS OF MORE TERROR ATTACKS

SECTION: First Edition; NEWS; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 79 words


THE attack this week on the US consulate in Jiddah could be followed by more
terror attacks in Saudi Arabia, the US State Department has said.

A new travel warning to discourage US citizens from going there was issued late
yesterday. The warning cited this week's attack and also "the continuing serious
threat to their safety."

Nevertheless, the US consulate in Jiddah was to be reopened soon, and the
embassy in Riyadh was preparing to reopen, as well.

LOAD-DATE: December 9, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

                   Copyright 2004 Coventry Newspapers Limited

                              281 of 301 DOCUMENTS

                         The Evening Standard (London)

                                December 8, 2004

Terror attack evacuees 'will go to Norfolk'

SECTION: D; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 69 words


LONDONERS could be evacuated as far away as Norfolk and Dorset in the event of a
catastrophic terrorist attack, writes Ross Lydall.

The details emerged as the emergency services appeared before the London
Assembly today at City Hall to answer questions on how well prepared the capital
is for a terrorist attack.

They said plans had been comprehensively redeveloped following the September 11
attacks.

LOAD-DATE: December 10, 2004

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                   Copyright 2004 Associated Newspapers Ltd.

                              282 of 301 DOCUMENTS

               UK Newsquest Regional Press - This is Local London

                                December 8, 2004

Terror attack plans outlined

BYLINE: Danny Brierley

LENGTH: 343 words


Senior members of London's emergency services gathered yesterday to outline
their proposals for dealing with a possible terrorist attack on the capital.

Representatives of the police fire and ambulance service admitted they did not
know where how when or how big any potential attack would be.

But they assured a London Assembly meeting they were doing all they could to
ensure that the mechanisms to cope with such an attack were in place.

If a major terrorist attack does occur Londoners should Go indoors, close all
doors and windows, listen to the radio and await instructions .

Water supplies are unlikely to be affected by a terrorist attack and
contamination could easily be traced and diverted from people's homes David
Wechsler chairman of the London Local Authorities Emergency Planning Sub
Committee said.

A London Ambulance Service spokesman said that 2 000 hospital beds could be made
available in only 12 hours.

Experts have been preparing for a major terrorist attack in London ever since
the unprecedented attacks on the World Trade Centre in New York in September
2001.

Fire officers hold regular drills to ensure they are able to help combat a
chemical or biological assault.

Roy Bishop deputy commissioner of the London Fire and Emergency Planning
Authority said new hi-tech equipment had been bought to in to make sure "We are
best placed as we can be to secure a recovery of services for Londoners."

There are no plans to evacuate children from London despite concerns from some
Assembly members that an operation similar to that which saw youngsters
dispersed during World War Two might be needed.

Mr Bishop said there was a review of London's "recovery plans" in 2002 and that
they had been given a "clean bill of health".

However Mr Bishop stressed that a "catastrophic" incident would present a unique
and formidable challenge to London.

The Government has also given more financial support to the emergency services
and local authorities to allow them to plan for a terrorist attack

LOAD-DATE: December 9, 2004

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: News

                  Copyright 2004 NewsQuest Media Group Limited

                              283 of 301 DOCUMENTS

                            The Independent (London)

                           December 9, 2004, Thursday

LAST NIGHT'S TELEVISION: AN ATTACK OF THE SITE TERRORS;
 BRICKING IT C4

BYLINE: THOMAS SUTCLIFFE

SECTION: First Edition; FEATURES; Pg. 21

LENGTH: 645 words


"I NEED this to sort of kick-start my career and stuff," said Ricky at the
beginning of Bricking It, Channel 4's latest exercise in Sow's Ear TV. In fact,
Ricky didn't have a career, stalled or otherwise, and what needed a good kicking
was something else entirely - but you get the general drift. Ricky was one of 20
teenagers who had misplaced their feck some time in the last century and who had
been taken on to construct an apartment in a south London development. They had
22 weeks to turn an empty shell into a yuppie passion pad and if they completed
the task to the developer's satisfaction they would share out pounds 50,000
between them. The catch was that the money diminished with every cock-up and
that individual punishments were shared collectively.

Twenty-two weeks struck me as a fairly generous schedule at first - 8,800 man
hours for just one two- bedroom apartment - but I had reckoned without the fact
that several of the team had to be trained to pick up a hammer by the correct
end. Others were eager but utterly incompetent - and apparently sceptical that
the trained builders on hand were qualified to advise them. "I think it'll be
strong enough... but what do I know?" said Lauren sulkily, after the
quality-control inspector had asked her to remove some battening it had taken
her hours to install. She seemed genuinely affronted to find that there were
fields in which her likes and dislikes would carry no weight at all.

Similarly detached from reality was Ricky. "I don't think I've got a problem
with my temper," he said defensively, though the police who had arrested him for
assault over one weekend didn't appear to agree. And neither, in the end, did
Phil, the endlessly patient site manager who spent much of his time trying to
get the team members to be civil to each other. Mindful of the fact that temper
tantrums and nail guns make a bad mix, Phil sacked Ricky after one flare-up too
many.

Shortly afterwards Dan, the cause of Ricky's aggravation, departed too, after
putting a screw through concealed cabling and causing pounds 1,700- worth of
damage. The news of his sacking prompted a general singsong of celebration from
the rest of the team - a cruel moment, but understandable, given Dan's
corrosively self-pitying manner. He had quite a few reasons to feel sorry for
himself - including the recent death of his mother - but unfortunately he did
the job so diligently that no one else felt inclined to help out. If he had
devoted even a fraction of that energy to putting up plasterboard he would
probably still be on site.

Curiously there have been quite a few hopeless-youth programmes this week. On
Tuesday night Locked in Paradise described the regime at Tranquility Bay, an
expensive child-taming facility in Jamaica whose therapeutic techniques leant
towards the KGB school of psychotherapy; while Young, Posh and Penniless offered
an inverted version of Bricking It, sending three trustafarian idlers off for 10
days of minimum-wage labour on the other side of the tracks. "They don't have
any brown sugar," exclaimed Tom after being introduced to the Shropshire farm
where he was going to work as a labourer, "which is a catastrophe!" He survived
this appalling deprivation, as did Ollie (10 days in a Welsh council house,
working at a local chippie) and Donatella (13-hour shifts at a trucker's cafe in
Widnes). Indeed, they all established that though they didn't have to work, they
could, with Donatella in particular showing real grit and charm. The point was,
though, that despite her total insulation from want, she was bricking it. She
thought she would be shown up as a spoilt little brat and was determined to
prove otherwise. Despite the title, several of those taking part in Bricking It
couldn't really have given a toss either way. If it went OK, fine. If it didn't?
Whatever.

LOAD-DATE: December 9, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 2004 Independent Print Ltd

                              284 of 301 DOCUMENTS

                              DAILY MAIL (London)

                               December 10, 2004

Madrid-style terror attack 'foiled in UK'

BYLINE: BEN TAYLOR

SECTION: ED_2ND; Pg. 43

LENGTH: 333 words


A MADRID-STYLE terrorist attack on the UK was foiled by the security services,
Britain's most senior policeman said yesterday.

Sir John Stevens, head of the Metropolitan Police, said a repeat of the Al Qaeda
train bombing in the Spanish capital last March in which 191 people died had
been avoided, but only because of the work of his officers.

Asked if there could have been a similar outrage in London, Sir John replied:
'Yes. I can't discuss it because of court proceedings, but, yes, we have stopped
a Madrid.' Scotland Yard said Sir John did not necessarily mean the thwarted
strike was aimed at the railways.

Sources also stressed that he was speaking 'historically', adding that he did
not refer to any recent threat.

Interviewed on BBC London radio, Sir John said: 'The risk of an attack to London
has not changed. An attack is still inevitable. Thank God to date, and we have
had to work extremely hard, we've thwarted attacks. We are still in a grave area
of great threat.' Anti-terror police have made more than 500 arrests since the
September 11 attacks on New York and Washington in 2001.

Sir John is stepping down as commissioner on January 31 to be replaced by deputy
commissioner Sir Ian Blair.

Meanwhile, it was claimed yesterday that Al Qaeda was plotting a September
11-style attack at sea.

A British security firm said they believe a terror 'spectacular', possibly on
the key Red Sea route linking Europe and Asia, would throw the global economy
into chaos, sending insurance premiums soaring.

The warning came from Aegis Defence Services, headed by Lieutenant Colonel Tim
Spicer, which has a Pounds 152million U.S.

government security contract in Iraq.

The group thinks the attack could come within the 12 months following the
appointment of maritime terror specialist Saud Hamund Al-Utaibi as head of Al
Qaeda in Saudi Arabia. He is thought to have been behind the 2000 attack on the
U.S. destroyer Cole which killed 17 sailors.

LOAD-DATE: December 11, 2004

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                   Copyright 2004 Associated Newspapers Ltd.

                              285 of 301 DOCUMENTS

                            Daily Post (North Wales)

                           December 10, 2004, Friday

TERROR EXPERTS WARN OF MARITIME ATTACKS;
 AL-QAIDA STRIKE WOULD CRIPPLE WORLD ECONOMY

BYLINE: JAMES LYONS

SECTION: North Wales Edition; NEWS; Pg. 19

LENGTH: 466 words


AL-Qaida is set to stage a waterborne September 11-style attack in the next 12
months, claim UK security experts.

The terror "spectacular" would not even have to succeed to throw the global
economy into chaos.

Simply capturing a ship on the key Red Sea route between Europe and Asia could
cause a world trade crisis.

And an attempt can be expected following the recent appointment of maritime
terror specialist Saud Hamund Al Utaibi as head of al-Qaida in Saudi Arabia.

The warning comes from Aegis Defence Services, the British firm headed by
Lieutenant Colonel Tim Spicer that holds a $ 293m US government contract to
provide "security services" in Iraq.

Intelligence director Dominic Armstrong said: "Ideally from their point of view
it would be a spectacular - a big bang to get people's attention - but it would
not need to be. "

Even if attempts to blow up a vessel carrying chemicals or another hazardous
cargo were foiled, the impact on shipping insurance premiums could put the Red
Sea out of bounds.

That would roughly double shipping time for goods from China to the West,
drastically hitting global trade.

Osama bin Laden has repeatedly urged fellow fanatics to pick targets which will
damage Western economies.

Al-Utaibi, thought to be behind the 2000 attack on the USS Cole in the Yemeni
port city of Aden, which killed 17 American sailors and injured 37, has the
experience to make it happen. His appointment follows a string of attacks
against shipping by Islamic extremists. As well as the USS Cole, there was a
bomb attack off Yemen two years ago on the Limberg, a French supertanker, and
maritime targets in Iraq have been attacked.

"There has been a gradual increment in maritime attacks, " Mr Armstrong said.

His firm's annual terrorism report for businesses warns that Al-Utaibi is just
one of a new generation of mujahidin fighters, battle-hardened in Iraq, set to
spread terror around the globe.

"Iraq represents the equivalent of Afghanistan when it was invaded by the Soviet
Union, " the intelligence director said.

"A generation of fighters went there to join the mujahidin.

"That band of brothers, hardened by their experiences, created the group from
which al-Qaida was formed.

"They went back to their homelands and caused trouble around the world Egypt and
Yemen.

"Iraq is the equivalent for a new generation - an opportunity for the ambitious
Jihadist. "

That has already found expression in Saudi Arabia with al-Qaida's bombing of the
US consulate in Jeddah this week.

As more terrorists arrive back home with their new-found skills, Mr Armstrong
adds: "The question is - what will they do?"

The Aegis 2005 Terrorism Report is available on line at www. aegisdef. com _
welshnews@dailypost. co. uk

LOAD-DATE: December 11, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Newspaper

               Copyright 2004 The Liverpool Daily Post & Echo Ltd

                              286 of 301 DOCUMENTS

                                   Daily Star

                               December 10, 2004

TERROR ATTACK THWARTED

BYLINE: by BILL MARTIN

SECTION: Lancashire Edition; NEWS; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 164 words


TERROR attacks on London on the scale of the Madrid bombings have been thwarted
by Britain's security forces.

Metropolitan Police Chief Sir John Stevens said last night: "We are still in a
grave area of great threat."

Asked if there could have been an outrage in London similar to that in Madrid
where rush-hour bombings killed nearly 200 people, Sir John replied "I can't
discuss it because of court proceedings, but yes we have stopped a Madrid."

His comments come after security experts said al-Qaida is set to stage a
September 11style attack by water in the next 12 months.

Even if the terror "spectacular" failed, it would still throw the global economy
into chaos.

Just capturing a ship on the key Red Sea route between Europe and Asia could
cause a world trade crisis.

The warning comes from Aegis Defence Services, the British firm headed by Lieut
Col Tim Spicer with a £150million US government contract to provide "security
services" in Iraq.

LOAD-DATE: December 10, 2004

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Newspaper

                       Copyright 2004 Express Newspapers

                              287 of 301 DOCUMENTS

                       EVENING CHRONICLE (Newcastle, UK)

                      December 10, 2004, Friday Edition 1

Terror attacks foiled chief

BYLINE: By The Evening Chronicle

SECTION: NEWS, Pg. 8

LENGTH: 253 words


   Former North East police chief Sir John Stevens has revealed that a terror
attack similar to the Madrid bombings has been thwarted in London.

The Metropolitan Police commissioner admitted al Qaeda-style terrorists still
pose a threat to Britain.

He disclosed that Scotland Yard has averted at least half a dozen serious
attacks on the capital.

Sir John, who is to retire at the end of this year, said: "Thank God, to date
and we've had to work extremely hard we've thwarted attacks. But the risk of an
attack to London hasn't changed. An attack is still inevitable."

When asked how serious the blocked attacks were, he admitted they had been on
the scale of the Madrid bombings of March 11.

He said: "Yes, I can't discuss it because of court proceedings, but yes, we have
stopped a Madrid."

Since the USA's September 11 attacks in 2001, more than 500 people have been
arrested in Britain on suspicion of terrorism. More than half of these have been
charged, with their cases now going through the courts.

In July, security bosses warned that North East landmarks could also be targeted
by terrorists. Speaking at the launch of a booklet telling people what
precautions they should take in the event of an emergency, Gary Barnett,
Assistant Chief Constable of the Durham Constabulary, said: "If you think of
Newcastle and the North East as a whole, there are a lot of places where a large
number of people gather. Anywhere people get together is a possible place of
interest to a terrorist".

LOAD-DATE: December 15, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                Copyright 2004 Newcastle Chronicle & Journal Ltd

                              288 of 301 DOCUMENTS

                            Mail on Sunday (London)

                               December 12, 2004

Yard chief's feud with Blunkett over 'terror attack' leak

BYLINE: SIMON WALTERS; MARTIN SMITH

SECTION: 3RD_S; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 584 words


DAVID BLUNKETT'S integrity suffered another blow last night after it was
revealed that Britain's top policeman accused him of smearing Scotland Yard's
antiterrorist squad.

Metropolitan Police Commissioner Sir John Stevens demanded an apology from the
Home Secretary after Mr Blunkett blamed the SO13 squad for leaking details of a
planned gas attack on the London Underground.

The two men had a blazing row when Mr Blunkett admitted that he knew the
allegation was false. But he refused to say sorry to Sir John.

The extraordinary disclosure casts new light on Mr Blunkett's vehement denial of
claims by his former lover, Spectator magazine publisher Kimberly Quinn, that he
was responsible for leaking details of their affair.

Yesterday, in a thinly veiled attack on Mr Blunkett's 'obsession' with
American-style policing, Sir John vented his fury at the Home Secretary's
favourite US police chief, Bill Bratton.

'In recent weeks there has been a thread running through newspaper reports
extolling the virtues of US police chiefs and their approaches to law and
order,' Sir John told The Mail on Sunday.

'This has invariably been coupled with an attack on the Metropolitan Police and
on UK policing in general.

We don't know who is driving all this, but crime is not going up in London, it
is going down.' Sir John's outburst follows a two-year private feud with Mr
Blunkett, which started in the run-up to the Iraq war. Sir John was enraged
when, after a report that MI5 had foiled a plot to launch a gas attack on the
London Underground, Mr Blunkett was quoted as blaming 'rogue officers' from SO13
for leaking the story to 'try to cover themselves in glory'.

A furious Sir John had a showdown with Mr Blunkett, who astonishingly admitted
he was responsible for briefing the Press against SO13 and that he knew the
claim was wrong.

'Mr Blunkett's attempt to smear his own police officers to try to get the
Government off the hook over the pre-war hysteria was despicable,' said a senior
police source. 'Sir John found it hard to believe that the Home Secretary could
do such a thing.' On another occasion, the two men clashed when Mr Blunkett said
that unless the Met cut violent crime within six months, the Home Office would
send in its own managers. Sir John was 'seething' because, once again, the first
he knew of Blunkett's bombshell was in a Press report.

Only two days earlier, the two men had dined together in Sir John's private
dining room, but Mr Blunkett gave no hint that he was going to humiliate his
host publicly just 48 hours later.

Just months after he became Home Secretary, Mr Blunkett riled many chief
constables at a London summit when he flew in Bill Bratton, who pioneered '
zerotolerance' policing in New York, to deliver 'inspiration'.

Sir John told The Mail on Sunday: 'Some reports have paid little, if any,
attention to the Met's considerable recent record of achievement. Crime in the
capital is falling and public confidence in policing is rising. Of course, a
great deal of work still needs doing, but we are succeeding in making London
safer.' Last night a senior Scotland Yard source said: 'Sir John has had enough.
He does not need Bill Bratton shoved down his throat.'

Sir John will retire in January to be replaced as Commissioner by his deputy Sir
Ian Blair, regarded by many as more politically correct.

A spokesman for Mr Blunkett said: 'We do not talk about the Home Secretary's
private discussions.'

LOAD-DATE: December 14, 2004

LANGUAGE: English

GRAPHIC: CONFLICT: SIR JOHN BELIEVES BLUNKETT IS 'OBSESSED' WITH AMERICAN-STYLE
POLICING

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                   Copyright 2004 Associated Newspapers Ltd.

                              289 of 301 DOCUMENTS

                                  The Observer

                               December 12, 2004

Business: Special Report: Animal Testing: THE EXTREMISTS: Another night, another
attack: The terror tactics of some anti-vivisectionists have become more violent
and are now being spread abroad, reports Mark Townsend

BYLINE: Mark Townsend

SECTION: Observer Business Pages, Pg. 10

LENGTH: 1236 words


MASKED figures hurl bricks through a kitchen window before running off into the
darkness. Next day, neighbours receive letters claiming the victim - a drugs
company executive - is a paedophile. In the same corner of the Home Counties,
police also investigate an attack on a fleet of refrigerated meat lorries and
find nine sophisticated explosive devices.

Such moves represent an alarming escalation in the terror tactics of Britain's
animal rights extremists, with 2004 being their most prolific and violent. As a
result of their attacks, individuals and firms - even though linked only
remotely with organisations involved in vivisection - have been abandoning
contracts with these institutes or companies at a rate of one every four days
throughout 2004.

More than 250 confirmed attacks were carried out by animal extremists in Britain
last year, with more than £1 million of damage caused to property. Those figures
are certain to be eclipsed this year. A spokesman for the Association of the
British Pharmaceutical Industry, which represents drug companies, admitted last
week that animal rights activists were launching 'more attacks than ever'. The
days when animal rights activists could be dismissed as eccentric 'bunny
huggers' have long gone.

Nor is the problem confined to these shores. Britain's animal rights terrorists
have become increasingly adept at disseminating their tactics to sister groups
in dozens of countries. The FBI has said that the danger posed by animal rights
extremists is now their biggest domestic terror threat - and they blame the UK
for the unwanted import. Recently US officials confirmed they were compiling
intelligence on a number of British citizens they believe could be linked to an
upsurge in attacks on the American mainland.

Andrew Baker, chief executive of Life Sciences Research, the parent company of
Huntingdon Life Sciences, has suffered a number of attacks on his New York home.
During one, extremists sprayed his property with messages warning his life
'would be hell' and started a fire in his front yard. Bomb threats have also
been issued recently to the owners of a Los Angeles medical research laboratory.

Why Britain has proved to be such a fertile breeding ground for animal rights
terrorism is more difficult to explain. 'No one really knows why, although the
fact we are a nation of animal lovers with a longstanding anti-establishment
sentiment has a part to play,' said Barbara Davies, spokesperson for the
Research Defence Society, which represents scientists in industry and academia.

Professor Chris Higgins, of the Medical Research Council, said: 'These people
are motivated more by anti-capitalism views than by pro-animal sym--- pathies.
Their actions indicate that what they really want to do is to stop big industry.
That is why they target Huntingdon Life Sciences - this is a company that does
testing for the pharmaceuticals industry, and so is a prime target.'

For their part, activists claim that civil disobedience has been crucial in many
great British historical acts - abolishing slavery and extending civil rights,
for example - and they are merely extending such emancipation. The notion that
dialogue can solve such conflicts is dismissed as naive.

Principal among those who prefer intimidation to debate is the Animal Liberation
Front, an ultra-violent umbrella group for a number of cells across UK with each
boasting their own nom de guerre, for example the Animal Rights Militia. Sources
for the ALF admit that they crave publicity and claim the organisation has never
been in better shape. Its founder Ronnie Lee was assumed to be in hiding but
recently addressed the group's Kent training camp - evidence of the movement's
swelling confidence. On the eve of the gathering, sources told The Observer it
was planning 10 attacks a day on those they accused of 'animal cruelty'.

A key feature in this escalation was the death - after a long hunger strike - of
Barry Horne on 6 November 2001. At last the movement had secured a martyr. Last
month his death was celebrated with special fervour. Between 4 November and 15
November, 10 violent attacks were carried out by extremists in his name. Of
these, seven occurred in the UK and involved paint stripping the cars of staff
at Huntingdon Life Sciences, Europe's largest contract animals testing
laboratory - along with fresh attacks on meat trucks.

However, it was the international attacks that proved most intriguing; tactics
first seen in Britain were mimicked in precise detail across the world. In the
US, extremists daubed the Long Island home of a senior laboratory executive with
the motifs of the once solely British-based Animal Liberation Front. A
Florida-based website wrote: 'The spirit of Barry Horne lives on today in the
ALF.' Five similar attacks were executed by activists in Sweden in five days
over the same period. Another three in Italy. Internationally, 74 attacks in 12
countries were carried out by extremists in the six weeks beginning from the
start of October.

Yet the ALF is no newcomer. It first gained attention in 1976 with a simple
doctrine: to act as proxy agents 'for defenceless animals against violent human
supremacists'. Campaigning for laboratory creatures proved a compelling cause
for those who believed the life of an animal was equal to that of a human. Soon
their direct action tactics had spawned a host of imitators such as the Animal
Rights Militia and the Justice Department, who resembled wartime resistance
movements in the tactics they adopted to emancipate animals from the 'slavery'
of vivisection.

By the late 1980s these cells were credited with causing more damage to property
on mainland Britain than the IRA's terror campaign. Activity waned in the wake
of Labour's election success in 1997. After all, the new government had promised
a reform of animal welfare alongside promises that Blair was 'committed to
seeing a reduction and the eventual end of animal experiments'.

Resultant inaction was interpreted as betrayal by the hard-liners, and a more
violent campaign than ever was demanded. Horne himself was arrested carrying
enough primed incendiary devices to devastate Bristol city centre.

Hundreds of attacks would follow his death, culminating in the most macabre just
two months ago, when a grandmother's Staffordshire grave was desecrated because
her family had links to a firm who bred guinea pigs for experiments. The act
stunned Britain, and although no one has been charged, animal rights groups have
showed no sign of scaling down their protest or distancing themselves from the
desecration.

Campaigner Mel Broughton has stated that he will not stop until plans for Oxford
University's new science laboratory, for example, are shelved. Similarly Stop
Huntingdon Animal Cruelty (Shac) makes little pretence in disguising its
ambition to shut HLS.

Recent arrest figures suggest there is no lack of following for the aims of such
groups. During the first six months of the year 146 people were arrested for
activities relating to animal rights protesters. During the same period last
year the figure was only 15, but there has only been a small increase in
successful convictions.

Public opinion may have hardened in support of the use of animals in medical
research but that means little to those committed to the end of such activities.


LOAD-DATE: December 13, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

                       © 2004 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              290 of 301 DOCUMENTS



                          Airline Industry Information

                               December 13, 2004

Concern over potential for terrorist attack by laser beam - report

LENGTH: 111 words


AIRLINE INDUSTRY INFORMATION-©1997-2004 M2 COMMUNICATIONS LTD

Federal officials in the US are reportedly concerned that terrorists could try
to down aircraft by blinding pilots with laser beams during landing approaches.

Laser beams can cause temporary blindness and severe damage to the retina. If
both pilot and co-pilot are affected during a non-instrument approach there is a
risk of an aircraft crash, reports The Associated Press.

However, the FBI and the Homeland Security Department have said there is no
intelligence indicating that al-Qaida or other terrorist groups might use lasers
in the United States.

(Comments on this story may be sent to aii.feedback@m2.com)

LOAD-DATE: December 13, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newsletter


                     Copyright  2004 M2 Communications Ltd
                              All rights reserved

                              291 of 301 DOCUMENTS

                               Lincolnshire Echo

                               December 13, 2004

Aljazeera talk on terror attacks

SECTION: News; Other; Others; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 304 words


Lincoln: An Aljazeera reporter who spent time with alleged masterminds of the
September 11 attacks was giving a lecture in the city today.  The Arab
television journalist Yosri Fouda will talk about How to Cover al-Qaida at the
University of Lincoln.

His book Masterminds of Terror contains interviews with two of the men behind
the September 11 attacks and recounts how the assault on the World Trade Centre
and the Pentagon was planned.

Fouda has won several awards for his work.

The lecture was organised by the university's journalism department but is open
to anyone who wants to attend.

To book a place, or for more information on the lecture call the University of
Lincoln on (01522) 882000.

Bookie burgled LINCOLN: Burglars got in to the Corals Betting Office in Wragby
Road after smashing through a pane of glass in its front door.

A list of stolen property is now being compiled after the break-in, which
happened between 1.30am and 2.20am on Saturday.

Police are searching for two men in connection with the burglary. One was
wearing a hat, a red zipped jacket and jeans and had a small brown dog with him.

The other was wearing a white jacket and carried a white bag.

Day-long blaze WADDINGTON: Six firefighter crews were called to control a blaze
at a barn full of straw which was started deliberately.

Firefighters were called to the scene in Brant Road at 2.45am on Saturday. One
crew remained at the site damping down until yesterday morning.

Teenagers hurt KIRTON: A 17-year-old boy is in a critical condition in hospital
after a crash on the B1367 Boston Road.

Two girls, aged 15 and 13, were also hurt in the crash.

The red Mazda they were travelling in left the road and ended up in a field. The
accident happened at 8.10pm yesterday. The road was closed until 11.30pm.


LOAD-DATE: December 14, 2004

LANGUAGE: English

                        Copyright 2004 Lincolnshire Echo

                              292 of 301 DOCUMENTS



                                   The Mirror

                           December 13, 2004, Monday

BRIDE STAB TERROR;
 DRUNKEN MANIAC ATTACKS BRIT AT HONEYMOON HOTEL

BYLINE: PATRICK MULCHRONE RESORT: MALINDI, KENYA

SECTION: 2 Star Edition; NEWS; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 187 words


NEWLYWED Lisa Seaman was stabbed by a crazed drunk who ran amok at her honeymoon
hotel.

Lisa, 32, and husband Mark were walking in the grounds beside the Indian Ocean
when a German tourist knifed her in the stomach.

He had earlier injured another woman and killed a man who came to her aid.

Last night, as Lisa was recovering in hospital, husband Mark, 31, said: "He
blocked our path. He was speaking a mixture of German and English.

"He said something like 'They've done something to my wife' but we couldn't hear
what the something was.

"His accent was strong. Then he took a large knife from a bag he had on his
shoulder and stabbed Lisa. It went through her stomach. It was an unprovoked
attack."

Knifeman Olaf Klinkusch, 41, then stabbed himself to death at the resort of
Malindi, Kenya, on Saturday.

The couple, their family and friends were due to fly back to Britain on
Thursday.

Mark said he and Lisa would return to their home in Lowestoft, Suffolk, as soon
as she was strong enough.

Doctors at Mombasa's Aga Khan Hospital said her wounds were serious but not
life-threatening.

LOAD-DATE: December 13, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                            Copyright 2004 MGN Ltd.

                              293 of 301 DOCUMENTS

                                   Daily Star

                               December 17, 2004

SPIES FOIL EIGHT TERROR ATTACKS; FANS AND SHOPPERS WERE IN PERIL

BYLINE: by STEPHEN RIGLEY

SECTION: U.K. 1st Edition; NEWS; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 403 words


ELITE anti-terror squads have thwarted eight September 11style attacks in
Britain, it was revealed yesterday.

The country's top police chief, Sir John Stevens, said more than 100 suspects
are facing court action.

Now countries around the world want to follow the British method for preventing
terror outrages.

Police, Special Branch officers, MI5 and MI6 joined forces to scupper eight
terror "spectaculars" in London as well as others across the country.

Plots to blow up Canary Wharf and a poison gas attack on the London Underground
have already been foiled. Anti-terror chiefs also scuppered a truck bomb planned
for Arsenal's Highbury stadium.

Plans to bomb in Manchester United's ground and the city's huge Trafford Centre
have also been thwarted.

Yesterday, the Met chief spoke about the police victories as he delivered an
alarming pre-Christmas warning. Police chiefs have placed the country on the
second highest terror alert and fear al-Qaida could launch a terror spectacular
over the festive period.

Sir John said: "The terrorist threat has not gone away, and yes we've been
highly successful to date, but we've got to keep that alertness there."

"We've been highly successful to date, but there is absolutely no reason to be
complacent at all. We're putting massive amounts of effort into anti-terrorist
activity."

Anti-terror chiefs from around the world are looking to follow the British lead
in stopping terror plots.

US security services are on high-alert for attacks in New York and Washington.

CIA chiefs feared an al-Qaida attack in the runup to last month's Presidential
election and are worried fanatics could strike at any time.

This year, the most devastating terror attack was in Spain when 191 people were
killed by a string of bombs in Madrid on March 11.

Westerners have also become prime targets around the globe.

Over 200 people were killed in an attack on a nightclub mostly used by
Australians in Bali, Indonesia, two years ago Last year, 50 people died in a
blast at the British embassy in Istanbul, Turkey.

US experts said last night they're pretty sure an audio tape posted on the
Internet contains the voice of terror chief Osama bin Laden.

On the recording, the al-Qaida leader praises gunmen who attacked a US consulate
in Saudi Arabia earlier this month and warns Saudi rulers that they could be
toppled by militants.

LOAD-DATE: December 20, 2004

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Newspaper

                       Copyright 2004 Express Newspapers

                              294 of 301 DOCUMENTS



                            Evening Times (Glasgow)

                               December 18, 2004

Firefighters suffer daily attack terror;
Thugs assault crews as unions blame politicians for loss of respect

BYLINE: By Stewart Paterson

SECTION: Pg. 6

LENGTH: 437 words



HIGHLIGHT: TARGETED:

fire crews face a daily barrage of bottle and brick attacks


FIREFIGHTERS are coming under attack from stone-throwing thugs on a daily basis.

Crews have had to battle their way through hails of bottles and bricks as they
fight fires and answer emergency calls.

And union leaders say the problem has been made worse by politicians' remarks
which have led to a loss for respect for the service.

A new report reveals that fire crews were attacked no less than 388 times in
2003/2004.

The figures were included in the Fire Service Annual Report for the first time
this year in response to growing concerns over safety.

But Fire Brigade Union leaders say politicians are partly to blame.

Richard Simpson resigned as deputy justice minister after he labelled striking
firefighters "fascists" last year.

Alan Kane, Strathclyde vicechairman of the FBU said firefighters do not have the
same level of respect as in the past.

He said: "Attacks are on the increase, there is no doubt about that. It is
mostly youths throwing, bottles, stones and sticks but on occasion it can get
really out of hand.

"A lot of it worsened after the strike when our profile in the community took a
hammering particularly when we had politicians making openly abusive remarks.

"We used to have a very good standing in the community but a lot of that has
been knocked down."

New laws have been introduced in a bid to clamp down on those who launch attacks
on crews and fire engines.

Already this year, since April, there have been 96 incidents of attacks on crews
in the Strathclyde area.

Fire crews in and around Glasgow were targeted in the run up to Guy Fawkes Night
this year.

Missiles were thrown at firefighters as they put out a bonfire in Dundonald
Avenue, Johnstone, in November and an object was thrown at a fire engine in
Shettleston Road, Parkhead, in October.

Jeff Ord, Chief Inspector of Fire Services, said he wants tougher sentences to
clamp down on offenders.

He said: "It is clearly unacceptable for staff to be attacked while carrying out
your duty and I hope the new Emergency Workers Bill, which aims to define
possible offences against firefighters and provide increased penalties for
offenders, will reduce both the number and severity of attacks."

The figures also showed an increase in fire deaths to 87 but deaths in house
fires fell from 59 to 53.

But fire safety messages are still not being heeded by enough people.

Investigations found that in the homes where people died 29 had smoke alarms
fitted but only 12 were working properly.

In the west of Scotland the number of deaths was 54 which included the 14
pensioners who died at Rosepark Nursing Home in Uddingston.

stewart. paterson@ eveningtimes. co. uk

LOAD-DATE: January 22, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER

JOURNAL-CODE: EVETMS


                      Copyright 2004 Newsquest Media Group
                              All rights reserved

                              295 of 301 DOCUMENTS

                              Western Daily Press

                               December 20, 2004

Anti-terrorist law attacked

SECTION: News; Politics; Others; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 386 words


A Leading lawyer says he will no longer represent suspected terrorists in the
wake of the Law Lords' damning verdict on the Government's "odious" anti-terror
laws.  Home Secretary Charles Clarke's emergency measures were left in tatters
on Thursday after the Law Lords ruled that indefinite detention without trial
contravened human rights laws.

The Law Lords' eight-to-one ruling in favour of nine detainees held for three
years on suspicion of links with terrorism shot a hole through the Government's
plans.

Ian Macdonald QC - one of the Special Advocates given security clearance to
represent detainees before the Special Immigration Appeals Commission - will now
resign after seven years "for reasons of conscience".

He said: "I now feel that whatever difference I might make as a Special Advocate
on the inside is outweighed by the operation of a law that is fundamentally
flawed and contrary to our deepest notions of justice.

"My role has been altered to provide a false legitimacy to indefinite detention
without knowledge of the accusations being made and without any kind of criminal
charge or trial." He adds: "Such a law is an odious blot on our legal landscape
and for reasons of conscience I feel that I must resign." Mr Macdonald, who has
been President of the Immigration Law Practitioners' Association since 1984,
said that following the September 11 attacks, the Appeals Commission's role was
expanded to hear appeals against the indefinite detention without trial of
suspected international terrorists accused of links to al-Qaida who could not be
deported.

He stayed on because he thought he could "make a difference", despite
considering it "a wrong law brought in the wrong way to the wrong court".

He said such laws alienated Britain in the international arena, with the tone of
the war against terrorism producing hatred and attacks on Asian communities.

He writes: "The solution to the perceived threat of international terrorism is
not, in my view, to pass new laws which apply arbitrary arrest and indefinite
detention without trial to every terrorist, British and foreign alike." Any
foreigner suspected of links with terrorism can be detained or can opt to be
deported.

But those detained cannot be deported if they face persecution at home.


LOAD-DATE: December 23, 2004 2012WESTDP224antiT

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: News

                      Copyright 2004 Bristol United Press

                              296 of 301 DOCUMENTS



                               The Sunday Herald

                               December 26, 2004

Burns expert warns hospitals would not cope in terror attack Nation s emergency
plans inadequate

BYLINE: By Liam McDougall Health Correspondent

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 820 words



HIGHLIGHT: John McGregor believes the current disaster strategy needs an urgent
rethink Photograph:

Jeremy Stockton


SCOTTISH hospitals are seriously underprepared to deal with a major fire
disaster or terror attack, a leading medical expert has claimed.

John McGregor, a consultant plastic and burns surgeon at St John's Hospital,
West Lothian, has warned that existing contingency plans for emergencies are
inadequate.

He believes that without an urgent rethink of the current strategy, Scotland is
vulnerable to a crisis in its ability to properly treat burns victims.

Despite a range of potential Scottish terrorist targets - most notably the
Faslane and Coulport naval bases and the new parliament building in Edinburgh -
McGregor warned the country would struggle to cope with a major disaster.

He suggested lessons had not been learned from the 1988 Piper Alpha oil platform
explosion, which killed 167 offshore workers and left many survivors terribly
burned.

"There are no guidelines at the moment other than the standard major disaster
incident plans for each hospital. These are not specifically designed to cope
with a large-scale incident in which the majority of cases are burns, " McGregor
said.

"There is the Grangemouth oil refinery and Mossmorran [an ethylene plant] in
Fife. We haven't had major incidents there recently but what happens if there is
one? We ought to be looking at this now.

We have a situation now that if we had a major disaster we may struggle.

"The purpose of this is not to terrify people but to make them aware that we
ought to be thinking more about this.

With the Scottish parliament now in Edinburgh and other potential targets for
terrorists, it is important we have some idea of how to plan for this."

Across the UK, police and emergency services are on a high state of alert over
the Christmas period, which because of its significance to Christians,
government officials fear could prove the trigger for an attack. They also fear
that bombing Britain at this time could be a way to destabilise the elections in
Iraq on January 30.

McGregor called on ministers to look to the model adopted in the Netherlands in
1990 to cope specifically with largescale burns emergencies.

The plan, developed by Scottish anaesthetist Dr David Mackie, who has worked in
the Netherlands for almost 30 years, was used successfully in 2001 after a fire
in Volendam in which 13 people died and 180 were injured when Christmas
decorations caught fire in a nightclub packed with teenagers celebrating New
Year.

Within minutes the temperature had reached 1000ºC as revellers frantically tried
to escape. But Mackie's plan was credited with keeping casualties to a minimum.

Under the scheme, burns victims are not automatically sent to the accident and
emergency department at the local hospital or nearest burns unit.

Instead, a burns assessment team (BAT) - a consultant, a nurse and an
anaesthetist - are sent to the site to assess patients and direct each to the
most appropriate hospital, not necessarily the unit nearest the disaster scene.

McGregor said: "In the event of a disaster the number of casualties is
potentially huge.

If they all went to the accident and emergency department in the locality, it
would be overwhelmed. They wouldn't have the number of staff who are trained in
treating burns.

"Patients who do not need major burns care could go to outlying hospitals.
Somewhere on the site, the assessment team would identify who really has major
burns and needs to be admitted to the nearest burns unit. By doing that you
ensure patients get the best treatment and hospitals are not overwhelmed.

"The assessment team would then go out two or three days after the incident to
hospitals to look again at whether patients needed more appropriate care. Some
may need to be sent to more peripheral hospitals, while other might need to be
sent to the specialist burns units."

In the spring, McGregor will lead a delegation of plastic surgeons who will meet
with Dr Mac Armstrong, Scotland's chief medical officer, to discuss how a
national plan can be adopted. It comes at a time when there is concern that
burns units in Scotland may fall victim to NHS reorganisation.

McGregor said: "It hasn't really been discussed or thought out at a higher
level.

At next year's meeting I will be speaking to Mac Armstrong and his team about
how we can move forward."

Dr Mackie, who is based at the Red Cross Hospital in Beverwijk, in the
Netherlands, gave his backing to McGregor's call for a national plan for
Scotland.

He said: "I do believe a plan like this is the most efficient way of
distributing a large number of patients who need very specific care."

A Scottish Executive spokesman said: "We are currently looking at burns services
in Scotland to make sure they best meet people's needs. That includes making
sure burns services can cope with emergency situations.

"We have already had some discussion with Mr McGregor about the Dutch plan, and
we would be happy to have further discussions with him."

liam. mcdougall@sundayherald. com

LOAD-DATE: January 22, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER

JOURNAL-CODE: SUNHER


                      Copyright 2004 Newsquest Media Group
                              All rights reserved

                              297 of 301 DOCUMENTS

                              DAILY MAIL (London)

                               December 27, 2004

Terror video gloats over base attack

SECTION: ED_1ST_04; Pg. 25

LENGTH: 142 words


TERRORISTS who carried out the deadliest attack on a U.S. base in Iraq released
footage yesterday of the explosion that killed 22 people, including 18
Americans.

And the radical Islamic group Ansar al-Sunna Army warned more attacks were
coming.

The video shows three terrorists describing the plan to blow up the mess hall at
the Marez base near the city of Mosul.

One of the men said a member of the group would break in through the perimeter
fence and storm the dining room 'where the crusaders and their allies are
gathered'.

' Let Bush, Blair and Allawi know that we will chase them all away,' he said,
before embracing the suicide bomber who was wearing an explosives-laden vest.

Later images on the video, which appeared on an Islamic website, show what seems
to be an explosion at the base and the torn mess hall tent.

LOAD-DATE: December 28, 2004

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                   Copyright 2004 Associated Newspapers Ltd.

                              298 of 301 DOCUMENTS



                              The Herald (Glasgow)

                               December 27, 2004

'We thought it was a terrorist attack . . . and then the wave came';
It began as another beautiful day, but ended with nations devastated and
millions affected by a wall of water, as Eleanor Cowie explains

BYLINE: Eleanor Cowie

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 1444 words



HIGHLIGHT: HOMELESS: A woman weeps after her house was destroyed by the sea in
Colombo, Sri Lanka.

DEVASTATION: A street in Phuket, Thailand, is littered with the remains of
crushed cars and debris torn from buildings after the area was hit by the
tsunami, while a girl is rescued from Marina Beach after the waves hit Madras in
Southern India, following the world's most powerful earthquake in 40 years.
Picture: Karim Khamzin/AP/Reuters

Diagram not available in database


ITseemed another perfect day.

Then the wave struck.

There was no warning as a 30ft wall of water swept inland across the Indonesian
city of Lhokseumawe.

"The weatherwas fine with no clouds . . . then suddenly the sea water just hit
the city. In some parts the waterwas up to chest level, " said Bustami, a
resident of Aceh provincial city.

By the end of the day, his story would be repeated across sixAsian nations - and
as far west as Somalia in Africa - as waves wrecked lives and homes, killing
thousands and affecting millions more.

The cause of the disaster had begun under the sea off the Indonesian island of
Sumatra.

Sixmiles down, an earthquake, measuring 8.9 on the Richter scale, had wrenched
apart the sea bed.

It was followed by a halfdozen powerful aftershocks, ranging in magnitude from
almost 6 to 7.3. They triggered a series of waves, fanning out at more than
300mph and heading for some of South Asia's most popular tourist spots.

As it reached Thailand's southern tourist island of Phuket, a wave said to be
three storeys high destroyed luxury hotels, tossing cars around, flattening
trees and injuring scores of tourists.

Along the west side of the island, where the main beaches are lined with luxury
hotels and resorts, Boree Carlsson, a 45-year-old Swedish hotel worker, had to
wrap himself around a pillar to avoid being swept away. "I just couldn't believe
what was happening before my eyes, " he said. "As I was standing there, a car
actually floated into the lobby and overturned because the current was so
strong.

"The water was up to my chest and I was holding on to my friend's hand because
he can't swim."

Gerrard Donnelly, a British tourist staying in Phuket, added: "We initially
thought it was a terrorist attack. Then the wave came and we just kept running
upstairs to get on as high ground as we could."

The island of Ko Phi Phi, where The Beach, the Hollywood blockbuster that
starred Leonardo DiCaprio was filmed, was also flattened.

Chan Marongtaechar, the owner of two resorts on Phi Phi island, said that 200 of
his bungalows were swept out to sea, along with some of his employees and
customers. "I am afraid that there will be a high figure of foreigners missing
in the sea, and also my staff, " said Mr Marongtaechar, who was in Bangkok at
the time of the disaster.

Thai mainland provinces of Phang Nga, Krabi, Satun, Trang and Ranong were also
hit.

Ann Sophie Spetz, a Swedish tourist, and her family followed other foreign
tourists who were evacuated to the hills, staying for hours without food. Locals
brought them water, and finally they returned to the seaside to eat, but their
relief was short-lived.

"The Thai people came again and shouted: 'The waves are coming, the waves are
coming', and we threw down our food and ran into the hills again.

"It was horrible. People had blood all over them and they screamed and
screamed."

In the Phang Nga tourist spot of Khao Lak, a collection of about 20 small
resorts of up to 40 rooms was wiped out.

One hotel worker there said:

"Before the wave hit, I saw sea water fall back around 100 metres from the
beach. Some minutes later there was a threestorey high wave moving toward the
beach and everything collapsed."

The scenes of destruction sparked by the tidal waves shocked a Malaysia which -
because of its geographical location - has no experience with earthquakes,
tsunami, volcanoes or other natural disasters that plague its neighbours.

Many of the victims there were said to have been swimming or riding on jet skis
on beaches on Penang, an island close to the Thai border in the north-west of
the country.

Elsewhere, a government health inspector lost his wife and four siblings when
they were swallowed up by the sea during a beach picnic, while pre-school
children enjoying an afternoon dip in usually placid waters ended up drowning.

"When I saw the waves that were even taller than a big man, I couldn't believe
my eyes, " said boatmaker Karim Aman, 45.

"This is what you see on TV happening in other places, but it's not supposed to
happen in Malaysia."

High waves inundated the Maldives, a country of lowlying coral atolls off the
southwestern coast of India and a popular tourist destination, forcing its only
international airport to close. A state of emergency was declared.

The 1200 tiny palm-fringed islands lie only three feet above sea level - the
wave reached four feet when it struck.

In Sri Lanka, which last night appeared to have the highest death toll, British
officials battled to reach ravaged parts of the country.

A state of emergency was declared and 20,000 soldiers deployed to assist with
rescue missions. Tourists were among thousands who were swept away.

Lalith Weerathunga, secretary to the Sri Lankan prime minister, confirmed that
the death toll was rising and said:

"It is a huge tragedy and it is unfolding all the time."

Officials said they had little information from coastal areas controlled by the
Tamil Tiger group, but the independence fighters estimated nearly 2000 corpses
had been found.

Gemunu Amarasinghe, a photographer and eyewitness based south of Colombo, the
Sri Lankan capital, said: "There were rows and rows of women and men standing on
the road and asking if anyone has seen their family members.

"I also saw people bringing in bodies from the beaches, placing them on roads
and covering them with sarongs."

Flash floods shut the port in Colombo, popularwith British tourists since a
civil war ceasefire was negotiated on the island in February 2002.

Anna Green, 26, and her fiance, Simon Miles, 32, of Swindon, Wiltshire, had
hoped to marry tomorrow on a tropical beach in the coastal resort of Ahungalla.

Rob Green, Miss Green's father, from Newbury, said the couple were swept along
by wave but were now safe.

"In any ordinary situation it would be a horrible holiday, but to plan for over
a year to get married there, it is obviously a double blow, " said Mr Green.

In India, officials said thousands of locals had been killed right along the
country's southern coast. Thousands more were last night feared to be missing,
many of them fishermen who had been at sea.

Among those killed in Andhra Pradesh were a number of worshippers, including 15
children, who had gone into the sea for a Hindu religious bath to mark the full
moon.

Residents rushed in vain to save the women and children, giving them
mouth-to-mouth resuscitation, pumping sea water from their bellies.

"It is such a tragedy, " said Venkaratnam, a villager who uses only one name. He
was clad only in a sarong and drenched in sea water. "We tried our best to save
these people, but could not do anything for them."

Television pictures showed bodies floating in turbulent, muddy seas off Madras,
capital of the worst-hit Tamil Nadu state.

In Prakasam, a pleasant, sunny Sunday morning turned into the most frightening
day of 45-year-old Giri Prasad's life.

"The sea suddenly turned furious, and within no time it was upon us, " he said.
Waves several yards high "were heading toward the village like an army of wild
elephants", causing extensive damage and killing seven people.

Police said 20,000 people were evacuated in four Indian districts, and in
Bangladesh at least two children were killed when a boat capsized.

In Indonesia, the initial damage centred on the province of Aceh.

The shaking from the earthquake itself lasted for about four minutes in Banda
Aceh, the provincial capital, collapsing buildings and toppling the minaret on
the centuries-old mosque that dominates the skyline.

Dozens of buildings were destroyed there, but as elsewhere much of the death
toll appeared to come from onrushing floodwaters.

The city was cut off from the outside world for 12 hours.

Officials using short-wave radios finally made contact to say at least 1400
people had died there.

On the island of Nias, to the west of Sumatra and close to the epicentre of the
quake, nearly 50 people were killed.

At least 30,000 people were reported to have fled their homes in the region,
while hundreds were still missing.

The Indonesian government is said to have struggled to respond to the disaster
in the area, which has been torn by separatist violence for 26 years.

Jakarta has prevented foreign journalists and aid agencies from visiting the
region for more than a year.

It appeared likely that the restrictions on international aid workers would be
lifted to allow emergency supplies to be sent to the province.

HELPLINE

The Foreign Office has set up an emergency helpline for concerned relatives of
those in the region. The number is 0207 008 0000.

The International Red Cross in Geneva issued an initial appeal for (Pounds)5m in
cash, relief goods or services to fund rescue operations for six months.

LOAD-DATE: January 22, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER

JOURNAL-CODE: GHERLD


                      Copyright 2004 Newsquest Media Group
                              All rights reserved

                              299 of 301 DOCUMENTS



                              The Herald (Glasgow)

                               December 30, 2004

Reservoir terror attack measures cost Pounds1m;
Home Office ordered review

BYLINE: IAIN WILSON CHIEF REPORTER

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 752 words



HIGHLIGHT: FENCED OFF: Huge metal fences were erected around the reservoir as
part of the anti-terrorism measures ordered by the home secretary. Picture:
Edward Jones


THE cost of anti-terrorist measures ordered at a reservoir which supplies
hundreds of thousands of Scots has reached almost Pounds1m - and is continuing
to rise.

The heightened security, introduced on the orders of the home secretary, will
remain until at least 2007while a new treatment works is built.

Documents in the possession of The Herald reveal the Home Office directive was
seen as "expedient in the interests of national security" - with Scottish Water
ordered to undertake the "latest measures to increase the protection of the
water facility from unauthorised intrusion or interference" at the Mugdock
reservoir near Milngavie, one of Scotland's biggest reservoirs.

However, the full reasons behind the introduction of the fencing and other
measures, including a security guard at a monthly cost of more than Pounds4100,
have not been revealed.

Eddie Yacoubian, chairman of Friends of Milngavie Reservoir, last night
expressed shock at the sums involved.

"Icannot believe almost Pounds1m of taxpayers' money has been spent on what many
believe is not a deterrent, " he said.

"The flimsiness of the fencing beggars belief."

He fears the fencing around the reservoir, a beauty spot popularwith walkers and
people exercising their dogs, will remain longer than 2007: "I suspect the new
treatment works will take longer than anticipated."

David Cumming, a Milngavie councillor, added:

"Many people wonder if the fence makes any difference.

But it doesn't matterwhat anyone says or thinks. It is a security service issue,
out of our hands."

He has complained to Scottish Water over lack of maintenance at the reservoir,
alleging it is now "in a dreadful mess and looks neglected".

Scottish Water insisted the works at the reservoir, on the outskirts of Glasgow,
were "a matter of national security".

In its first extended statement since the measures were introduced following the
January 2003 directive, the authority hinted they were in response to a
terrorist threat and revealed the protective measures cost some Pounds944,000,
with Scottish Water receiving a grant of 75per cent from the Scottish Executive.

It is understood the order followed MI5 concerns that Mugdock's Victorian
treatment works lacks suitable filtration against chemical, biological, or
radiological agents, although the volume of water is such that huge amounts
would have to be released to do serious damage.

Documents released following Freedom of Information inquiries show the alarm was
formally raised with Scottish Water in December, 2002.

At the time, Jon Hargreaves, Scottish Water's chief executive, noted that "the
security service had reassessed the security requirements" at the treatment
works.

He also told the Scottish Executive on December 18, 2002: "I can confirm that
Scottish Water have engaged the services of the security consultant, normally
used for this type of work, to undertake the design of the security measures to
comply with the requirements of the security service."

He added because of the planning and public sensitivity surrounding proposed
measures, the contract would not be awarded or security guarding introduced
until a formal directive was received.

Design and tender documents alone cost Pounds17,000.

No similar orders have been issued to Scottish Water for other sites where it
operates, suggesting specific intelligence relating to Mugdock was received.

The measures will remain in place until a new Pounds100m treatment plant is
completed.

Scottish Water refused to make the reasons for security, and the specifications,
available. It said details of the work "may demonstrate the vulnerabilities and
the means to exploit them by terrorists or others who wish to act unlawfully".

The Home Office's directive specifically states disclosure of the works'
schedule is against the interests of national security. Scottish Water insisted
specifications and drawings of the works were subject to the same restrictions.

It acknowledged no date has been set for lifting the order, but said a
reviewwould be requested on completion of the new treatment works.

Of security in general, Scottish Water said a long-term programme exists, with
"guidance on measures identified and specified by government departments".

It added: "We have received various guidance documents in this respect over the
past few years.

"However, providing information of security measures we are to take would
identify vulnerabilities and as such would not be in the public interest.

"None of the guidance relates to similar work as at Milngavie."

LOAD-DATE: January 22, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER

JOURNAL-CODE: GHERLD


                      Copyright 2004 Newsquest Media Group
                              All rights reserved

                              300 of 301 DOCUMENTS

                          THE DAILY TELEGRAPH(LONDON)

                           January 01, 2005, Saturday

Terrorist fears over laser attacks on seven planes

BYLINE: By Tom Leonard in New York

SECTION: News; International Pg. 14

LENGTH: 244 words

THE FBI is investigating reports that laser beams have been directed into the
cockpits of seven aircraft flying over America since Christmas, amid fears that
terrorists could use them to blind or disorientate pilots.

Crews have reported two incidents in Colorado Springs and one each in Cleveland,
Washington, Houston, Teterboro, New Jersey, and Medford, Oregon. All the planes
landed safely.

Pilots are not convinced by reports that federal investigators have found no
evidence of terrorist involvement.

"It's not some kid, it's too organised," said Paul Rancatore, the deputy
chairman of the security committee for the Allied Pilots Association. Loren
Thompson, who teaches military technology at Georgetown University in Washington
DC, said: "What we're talking about is a fairly powerful visible light laser
that has the ability to lock on to a fast-moving aircraft.

"That's not the sort of thing you pick up at a military surplus store," he
added. "It sounds like an organised effort to cause airline accidents."

Pilots and safety officials have been concerned for some time about the dangers
of laser light shows, which have caused temporary eye injuries to several pilots
in the past decade.

A recent study commissioned by the Federal Aviation Administration concluded
that "a laser attack could be quickly deployed and withdrawn, leaving no obvious
collateral damage or projectile residue, and would be difficult to detect and
defend against".

LOAD-DATE: January 1, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 2005 Telegraph Group Limited

                              301 of 301 DOCUMENTS

                                    The Sun

                                January 1, 2005

PRIEST ATTACK TERROR

BYLINE: Niall O'Connor

LENGTH: 169 words


Thugs hammer him to a pulp so they can steal his mobile

A PRIEST was brutally attacked and robbed in his home - in a carbon copy of a
raid on the same house seven years ago.

Two masked young burglars repeatedly battered Fr Jeremiah Cremin, 50, over the
head with hammers as he slept in bed.

They tied him up and left him lying in a pool of blood before ransacking the
house in the Glen area of Cork.

Then they fled with the priest's mobile phone and a small sum of cash.

Last night Fr Cremin was recovering from shock in Cork University Hospital after
having stitches in a gaping head wound. A horrified cop vowed to track down the
"savage" gang.

He said: "This was gratuitous and unnecessary violence."

One parishioner added: "The people who did this are savages. They are the next
generation and it is appalling."

Thugs broke into the same council house in one of Cork's most-deprived areas in
1997.

Another priest who lived there at the time was also beaten up and robbed.


LOAD-DATE: January 13, 2005

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Newspaper

                    Copyright 2005 NEWS GROUP NEWSPAPERS LTD



---- End of Request ----
Download Request: Select Items: 2000 - 2300
Time Of Request: Wednesday, February 21, 2018  22:30:02

