



Download Request: Select Items: 1-500
Time Of Request: Wednesday, February 21, 2018  23:03:46
Send To:







Terms: terror!


Source: UK Publications
Project ID: None



                               1 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                       BBC Monitoring Europe - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                             January 1, 2012 Sunday

Serbia warned by FBI about possible terrorist attacks - interior minister

LENGTH: 1034 words


Text of report by Serbian newspaper Blic website on 20 December

[Report by Zeljka Jevtic, Boris Vukovic: "FBI Warned Serbia About Domestic
Terrorists"]

Serbia has received a tip off based on intelligence gathered by US security
services, indicating on well founded grounds that there is a possibility of
terrorists attacks on targets of interest to the United Sates during the
upcoming festivities. Governments in several countries have been alerted to the
threat of small scale attacks by individuals who pick their targets on their
own. Police Minister Ivica Dacic has told Blic that the warning does not refer
to facilities and citizens of Serbia specifically and that there are no
operative indications that there are any such targets in Serbia, but that
nevertheless security measures to protect diplomatic and consular buildings,
facilities and officials will be stepped up.

US intelligence services believe that there are well founded grounds to expect
terrorist attacks on the American territory. However, they believe that
Al-Qa'idah is using propaganda to motivate individuals to carry out local
attacks in the countries where they happen to be. Hence a general alert urging
certain precautionary measures during the upcoming festivities. The warning is
not specifically for Serbia, but for practically all those countries where
American interests could be targeted, be they buildings or people, the police
minister told Blic.

No Concrete Reports

He went on to add that the Americans had sent a warning about the possibility of
several small scale attacks.

The US services believe that the biggest threat is posed by individual, lone
attackers. They act on their own, that is, they alone take decisions when to
attack, they are not concerned with the targets and pick those that are easily
accessible and are not guarded heavily. There is no intelligence that Serbia is
being threatened directly, but as a precautionary step and due to the recent
events in Bosnia-Hercegovina, we will tighten the security of diplomatic and
consular offices, including the US Embassy and its staff, Dacic said.

Keeping an Eye on Extremists

Owing to ever present threat over the past few years of terrorists expanding
their area of operation to include Serbia the government has raised the level of
surveillance of extremists groups and their activities. There is a tendency to
recruit terrorist in this region as well, and Wahhabi adherents are often
mentioned as a case in point. However, there have been no attacks on state
facilities either in Serbia or in the region as a whole.

Military affairs analyst Aleksandar Radic believes that there are two main
currents of international terrorism that could impact on Serbia. The first
involves the Wahhabis from the region of Raska [Sandzak] and Albanians in
southern Serbia, and the other includes Islamic extremists who are capable of
carrying out a terrorist outrage against a set target.

Wahhabis and Albanians

Security is at risk, but Serbia has never been known to be in the mainstream of
international terrorist activities. However, it is no secret that the country
faces a potential threat from Wahhabi followers and Albanians in the south of
the country who choose as their targets only security structures as a way of
gaining political mileage. They avoid targeting civilians because such action
would be counterproductive for them, Radic said.

However, the picture is very different with regard to terrorist threats from
outside the country.

Their target could be anything, but certainly not civilians. It is more likely
that some individuals could be a target, Radic said.

Security Level

Analyst Danijel Sunter says that like any other country, Serbia also faces
threats of terrorism, however, not to the same extent as the West European
countries or America.

None of us can remember a terrorist attack ever happening in Serbia, or
Belgrade, or Cacak, or Kragujevac. Serbia is not a country where there is a risk
of terrorists planting bombs under a car or in a cinema, or a shopping centre or
a bus stop, Sunter say s.

He stressed that after the Wahhabi attack in Sarajevo, Serbian police raised the
level of security of foreign embassies in Belgrade.

This is probably why the police minister was tipped off by his American
colleagues who identified the Wahhabis as a potential threat, Sunter believes.

Active Groups

According to the intelligence reports available to Serbian authorities, some
small groups such as the "Ebu Muhammed" [REFERENCE to Nedzad Balkan, aka Ebu
Muhammed, a radical Vienna based Salafi adherent] are active in this part of the
world. Among the radical Islamist Bosniaks the most influential fractions at the
moment are the "Nusret's" group directly controlled by Nusret Imamovic of Gornja
Maoca in Bosnia-Hercegovina and the "Takfiris" headed by Adem Demirovic from a
majsid [mosque without minaret] in Vienna.

[Box] Jasarevic Refuses To Say Anything About Snipers

Mevlid Jasarevic, a resident of Novi Pazar, carried out a terrorist attack on
the US Embassy in Sarajevo on 28 October when he fired shots from an automatic
rifle at the building.

He was arrested with three accomplices who helped him carry out the terrorists
attack: Emrah Fojnic, Dino Pecenkovic and Munib Ahmetspahic. During the
operation to arrest him and a subsequent raid in Gornja Maoca, regarded as the
centre of Wahhabi activity, a large amount of weapons and explosives was found.

At the hearing yesterday, the Bosnia-Hercegovina Prosecutor's Office failed to
obtain from Jasarevic any information about a sniper that could be seen in his
video message and from whom he had bought it.

Jasarevic spoke extensively about his life in Vienna and afterward, but the
prosecution did not receive answers to the key question of the sniper and it can
not be satisfied since the details of Jasarevic's earlier life are not that
important for the investigation, Jasarevic's lawyer Senad Dupovac said. He added
that during the hearing, Jasarevic was in the mood to talk, that while in
detention he had been visited by his wife, and that permission had been given
for his mother to visit him. She is expected to arrive from Vienna this week.

Source: Blic website, Belgrade, in Serbian 20 Dec 11

LOAD-DATE: January 1, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2012 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                               2 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                  Sunday Life

                                January 1, 2012
                                  Main Edition

DPPs warned of potential terror attack ...

BYLINE: ALAN MURRAY

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 267 words


DPPs warned of potential terror attack

DISSIDENT republicans still pose a threat to members of District Policing
Partnerships despite a significant lull in terrorist activity here.

Members of DPPs were warned before Christmas that they are still at risk from a
terrorist attack with the threat level remaining at "moderate".

The warning from the PSNI came in a message to Chairs of DPPs across the
province through the Chief Executive of the Policing Board.

The circular said that the "generic threat" from the different dissident groups
was assessed as moderate by the PSNI which meant "an attack is possible but not
likely".

But Belfast DPP Chairman Jim Rodgers urged that the message from the Policing
Board should not be downplayed.

"It does say that the threat is moderate but that does not mean that an attack
against a member of a DPP is not being planned.

"Members of DPPs have been attacked by the dissidents over the last year and it
would be foolish to be complacent," the Unionist councillor said.

The PSNI maintained that the overall level of threat from dissident republican
elements in Northern Ireland remains "severe" despite major arrests since the
murder of Constable Ronan Kerr.

And there is a general suspicion that the original dissident groups, the Real
IRA and the Continuity IRA, have now been heavily infiltrated by MI5 here and
the Garda in the Republic causing huge uncertainty within their ranks.

Oglaigh na hEireann is considered the least infiltrated of the main dissident
groups but it too has been relatively inactive in the last six months.

CAPTION: MURDERED: Constable Ronan Kerr

LOAD-DATE: January 1, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: SL


                  Copyright 2012 Belfast Telegraph Newspapers
                              All Rights Reserved

                               3 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                       January 1, 2012 Sunday 8:00 AM GMT

Hundreds of frontline health workers vaccinated against smallpox;
More than five hundred health workers have been vaccinated against smallpox
enabling them to deal with a biological terror attack at this year's Olympics.

BYLINE: By Edward Malnick

LENGTH: 496 words


The move highlights the level of concern within Whitehall over the prospect of
extremists turning to germ warfare. Elaborate measures are being taken to
counter a range of threats at the summer's Games, with the bill for venue
security and policing rising above £1 billion.

The Government has also stockpiled sufficient supplies of smallpox vaccines to
"mount a UK-wide vaccination programme" in the event of a deliberate release of
the disease, which was declared eradicated in 1980.

A Home Office report last January warned that Games venues or public transport
would make an "appealing target" for terrorists to launch biological attacks,
such as those involving smallpox. The deadly disease could be spread by aerosols
and is highly contagious.

The immunised medical staff includes 147 doctors, 164 nurses, 100 paramedics,
and 32 scientists, who have been divided up into a series of Smallpox Management
and Response Teams (SMART). Each team is made up of five health professionals,
including a specialist nurse and a paediatrician. All are specially trained in
smallpox diagnosis and management.

Although the teams were not specifically established for the Olympics, the
Government has drawn up contingency plans to ensure that they will be available
during the period of the Games in July and August.

Members of the teams were first identified and vaccinated in 2005, and they have
boosters every three years. In the event of an outbreak, they would be
immediately diverted from their regular jobs in the NHS and Health Protection
Agency.

Details of the arrangements have came to light after a former Conservative
minister raised questions in Parliament about the contingency plans for a
biological attack on the London games.

Lord Jopling warned in a Lords debate last month that a "pathetically low"
number of workers in the emergency services were vaccinated against smallpox and
anthrax.

In a letter following the Lords debate Lord Henley, a Home Office minister, said
the Government was prepared for a variety of scenarios.

"A wide range of possible incidents or attacks has been considered by
government. Following this process, the UK Health Departments have established
an appropriate stockpile of vaccines, medical countermeasures and specialist
equipment to be used to protect and treat the public and emergency responders,"
he wrote.

In the letter, dated December 19, Lord Henley added: "Government has taken steps
to protect emergency service personnel against such threats. A cohort of front
line health workers has been vaccinated to deal with any initial suspected or
confirmed cases of smallpox. No additional plans are in place specifically in
response to the impending London 2012 Olympics, although risks are regularly
reviewed based in part on the threat level in the national risks assessment
(NRA)."

A spokesman for the Department of Health said: "We have contingency plans in
place to ensure the appropriate staffing levels of those 516 during the
Olympics."

LOAD-DATE: January 1, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTNS


                  Copyright 2012 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               4 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring Middle East - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                             January 2, 2012 Monday

''Terrorists'' confess to attacks on Syrian soldiers

LENGTH: 292 words


Text of report in English by state-run Syrian news agency SANA website

["Terrorists Confess to Working with Armed Groups, Terrifying People, Shooting
Army" - SANA Headline]

Damascus (SANA) - Terrorists Rddad al-Akari and Khaled Taqtaq confessed to
carrying the weapons in Homs Governorate, setting up barricades in the
neighbourhoods, terrifying citizens and shooting the army and law-enforcement
members.

In confessions broadcast Sunday [1 January] by the Syrian TV, the 35-year old
terrorist, Akkari, who lives in Bab Tadmour neighbourhood in Homs, confessed
that he participated in the demonstrations in Homs last April, demanding the
freedom and reforms.

"Later, we began to shout slogans against the regime and the government," he
said. He narrated how he met with the terrorist Bilal al-Ken and other gunmen
with him who came and inhabited the neighbourhood and called on people to be
armed.

Akkari admitted to setting up barricades, along with other gunmen, to intimidate
people and prevent them from going out of their houses. He said the money and
the smuggled weapons we were provided by were coming from Lebanon. In turn, the
34-year old terrorist Taqtaq, who lives in Bab Tadmour and works as a painter,
confessed to taking part in the demonstrations, saying that unknown men
barricades black clothes and carrying weapons were taking part also.

He added that those unknown gunmen were terrifying and insulting the persons who
come out of their houses, obliging them to return homes.

"Those gunmen established barricades in the neighbourhoods, asking people where
to go and from where they come," he said, adding that they opened fire on the
army members when they entered the neighbourhood.

Source: SANA news agency website, Damascus in English 2 Jan 12

LOAD-DATE: January 2, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2012 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                               5 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring Middle East - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                            January 3, 2012 Tuesday

Armed "terrorist" group attacks gas pipeline nearby Syria's Al-Rastan city

LENGTH: 196 words


Text of report in English by state-run Syrian news agency SANA website

["Terrorist Attack against Gas-pipeline Causing Loss of 4" - SANA Headline]

Damascus, (SANA)-An armed terrorist group launched a sabotage attack against a
gas-pipeline passing nearby al-Rastan City.

The pipeline, set ablaze and exploded by an explosive charge, feeds al-Zara and
al-Zaizoun electricity generation stations. An official source at the Ministry
of Petroleum and Mineral Resources stated to SANA that Zaizoun Electricity
Generation Station was put out of service because the attacked pipeline, a
24-inch diameter, has no substitute. The flow of gas in the pipeline was halted
and all necessary measures as to repair it are under way, the source added.
Meantime, an official source in the Ministry of Electricity stated that this
terrorist explosion caused the loss of 4-megawatt per hour of electricity, which
would lead to an increase of electricity rationalization by an additional hour.

Today's terrorist attack against gas-pipelines is the fourth of its kind causing
the loss of about 800 megawatt of electricity power. Al-Ibrahim

Source: SANA news agency website, Damascus in English 3 Jan 12

LOAD-DATE: January 3, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2012 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                               6 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                      January 3, 2012 Tuesday 10:12 AM GMT

Syria: state says 'terrorists' blew up gas pipeline;
An explosion struck a gas pipeline on Tuesday in central Syria in an attack the
government blamed on terrorists, the state-run news agency said. There were no
casualties.

LENGTH: 636 words


The blast happened near the town Rastan in the restive Homs province, SANA
reported.

There have been several pipeline attacks since the Syrian uprising began in
mid-March, but it is not clear who is behind them at a time when violence across
the country is spiralling out control, unearthing long-standing grievances and
resentments.

The government blames saboteurs and terrorists for the blasts.

But the opposition accuses the regime of playing on fears of religious extremism
and terrorism to rally support behind President Bashar Assad, who has portrayed
himself as the only force that can stabilise the country.

Syria has banned most foreign journalists from the country and prevented
independent reporting, making it difficult to confirm claims from either side.

On Monday, the head of the Arab League said Syrian security forces are still
killing anti-government protesters despite the presence of foreign monitors in
the country.

But he insisted the observer mission has yielded important concessions from the
Damascus regime, such as the withdrawal of heavy weapons from cities.

Opposition groups have been deeply critical of the mission, saying it is simply
giving Assad cover for his crackdown.

"The Arab League has fallen victim to the regime's typical traps, in which
observers have no choice but to witness regime-staged events, and move about the
country only with the full knowledge of the regime," said a statement by the
Local Coordinating Committees, an umbrella group of activists.

"This has rendered the observers unable to work or move independently or in a
neutral manner," the group said.

The UN estimates more than 5,000 people have been killed since the revolt
erupted in mid-March. Activists say that in the week since the observers started
their work in Syria on Dec 27, hundreds have been slain. The LCC put the death
toll at more than 390 people since Dec 21.

"Yes, there is still shooting and yes there are still snipers," Arab League
Secretary-General Nabil Elaraby told a news conference in Cairo on Monday. "Yes,
killings continue. The objective is for us to wake up in the morning and hear
that no one is killed. The mission's philosophy is to protect civilians, so if
one is killed, then our mission is incomplete."

"There must be a complete ceasefire," Elaraby said.

Elaraby stressed the achievements of the Arab League mission, saying Syria's
government has pulled tanks and artillery from cities and residential
neighbourhoods and freed some 3,500 prisoners. He said food supplies have
reached residents and the bodies of dead protesters have been recovered.

The monitors are supposed to verify Syria's compliance with an Arab League plan
to stop the crackdown on dissent - a plan Syria agreed to on Dec. 19. The plan
requires Assad's regime to remove security forces and heavy weapons from city
streets, start talks with opposition leaders and free political prisoners.

The ongoing violence is reinforcing the opposition's view that Syria's limited
co-operation with the observers is nothing more than a ploy by Assad's regime to
buy time and forestall more international condemnation and sanctions.

In its statement, the LCC said the regime has been disguising soldiers and army
officers in police uniforms and hiding their army vehicles to make it appear
they have pulled out in accordance with the Arab League plan.

While most of the violence reported early in the uprising involved Syrian forces
firing on unarmed protesters, there are now more frequent armed clashes between
military defectors and security forces. The increasing militarisation of the
conflict has raised fears the country is sliding toward civil war.

The LCC said 20 people were killed across the country on Monday, including 11 in
restive Homs province in central Syria and three in Idlib province, which
borders Turkey.

LOAD-DATE: January 3, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTNS


                  Copyright 2012 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               7 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                   The Mirror

                            January 5, 2012 Thursday
                                 Ulster Edition

HIJACK VICTIM 'FEARED SHE'D BE KILLED';
PASSENGER'S TERROR AS BRUTE ATTACKS

BYLINE: JILLY BEATTIE

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 21

LENGTH: 270 words


A TEENAGE thief jumped into a car while its owner was at a chemist collecting a
prescription.

Her friend, who was sitting in the passenger seat of the Ford Fiesta was pounced
upon on the Shankill Road in West Belfast by a man who ordered her to get out.

The incident happened in former UVF leader Johnny Adair's old stomping ground in
broad daylight.

A source said: "She was very frightened. She thought if she didn't get out of
the car she might get stabbed or strangled.

"The hijacker was really violent to her, she said he was very angry and he
smacked her in the side of the head several times.

"He kept screaming at her to get out. He said he needed the car and kept pushing
and punching her on the side of the face."

The car owner, who works at the Royal Victoria Hospital with her pal, was
picking up a prescription for her fiance when the incident happened.

The women has just left work and had changed their regular routine to visit the
pharmacy.

A pal added: "She normally collected her young child at that time of day and on
any other day of the week that man could have stolen a car with a child sitting
in the back seat.

"It's really frightening to think what might have happened.

"That's why both girls are quite weepy.

"It's been a terrible shock but the consequences of what could've happened could
have been even worse.

Police from Tennent Street PSNI station are investigating the hijacking which
happened at 1pm on Tuesday.

Just over pounds 50 of cash was also taken.

The car was discovered abandoned and undamaged a short time later at the
junction of Roden Street and Grosvenor Road and will be returned to its owner.

LOAD-DATE: January 5, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: SCENE Chemist on Shankill Road in West Belfast yesterday

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                            Copyright 2012 MGN Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                               8 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                 BBC Monitoring Former Soviet Union - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                             January 6, 2012 Friday

Russia condemns "barbaric terrorist attack" in Damascus

LENGTH: 166 words


Text of press release "On terrorist attack in Damascus" published by the Russian
Ministry of Foreign Affairs website on 6 January

On 6 January in the centre of the Syrian capital, Damascus, near the Hasan
mosque and the Hasan al-Hakim school, there was a terrorist attack, a blowing up
by a suicide bomber of an explosive device planted in a car. According to
reports that are coming in, 25 people died and more than 50 were injured, most
of them civilians. According to preliminary information from the Russian embassy
in Damascus, there are no Russian citizens among the victims.

Moscow is expressing sincere condolences to relatives and friends of those who
died in this barbaric terrorist attack and sympathy with those hurt.

We are condemning - in the most resolute manner - this criminal act, which does
not and cannot have any justification. Its organizers and perpetrators should be
duly punished.

[Dated] 6 January 2012.

Source: Ministry of Foreign Affairs website, Moscow, in Russian 6 Jan 12

LOAD-DATE: January 6, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2012 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                               9 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring Middle East - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                             January 6, 2012 Friday

Iran condemns "terrorist" attack in Syria

LENGTH: 125 words


Iranian Foreign Ministry Spokesman Ramin Mehmanparast has condemned the
"terrorist" attack in Syrian capital, Damascus on 6 January, Islamic Republic
News Agency (IRNA) reported on the same day.

According to IRNA, quoting the Foreign Ministry's information and press office,
Mehmanparast condemned the "terrorist" attack in Syria and expressed Iran's
sympathy with the families of the blast's victims. He added: "Undoubtedly, the
Syrian nation and government will maintain their unity, awareness and strength
to disappoint Syria's enemies, who do not have anything else in mind other than
creating civil war, separation and surrender to the demands of the
American-Zionist axis."

Source: Islamic Republic News Agency, Tehran, in Persian 2059 gmt 6 Jan 12

LOAD-DATE: January 7, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2012 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              10 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                       BBC Monitoring Europe - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                             January 6, 2012 Friday

Bulgaria denies planned terrorist attacks on Israeli tourist

LENGTH: 636 words


Text of report in English by Bulgarian national news agency BTA website,

["Bulgaria Denies Credible Terrorist Threat for Israeli Citizens" - BTA
headline]

Sofia, January 6 (BTA) - Bulgarian Government ministers Friday [6 January]
denied that Israeli citizens in this country are exposed to a credible terrorist
threat. Transport, Information Technology and Communications Minister Ivaylo
Moskovski told journalists that the Bulgarian special services have not received
any such alerts and that routine security measures are taken at Sofia Airport.
Replying to a question, Moskovski said he is not in contact with the Israeli
security services and that Bulgaria had not been contacted by them, either.

Approached by reporters, Defence Minister Anyu Angelov also denied that the
special services, and in particular the Defence Information Service, have any
information about a possible terrorist attack in Bulgaria.

Earlier in the day, Bulgarian Foreign Ministry Spokesperson Vessela [Vesela]
Cherneva told bTV that her Ministry has done "absolutely everything" to find out
whether such a threat exists. "We have no information about such terrorist
attacks. Usually, we receive such information in due time," Cherneva said,
pointing out that the two foreign ministries are constantly in touch.

Also on Friday, Bulgarian Economy, Energy and Tourism Minister said on bTV that
Prime Minister Boyko Borisov had advised against discussing threats from
anonymous sources since the necessary security measures are already in place and
such discussions can only create insecurity.

On Thursday, the Haaretz newspaper quoted an Israeli government official as
saying that the government has asked Bulgaria and other countries to beef up
security to protect Israeli citizens on their territories.

The Walla! website specified that the planned attacks are to mark the 12
February anniversary of the 2008 killing of Hezbollah leader Imad Mughnieh.

The Russian Israeli website IzRus claimed that the information about the attacks
was disclosed to Israeli services by their Bulgarian counterparts.

"In connection with items which have appeared in Israeli media, to the effect
that a large-scale terrorist attack is being prepared on Bulgarian territory,
this is to inform you that the Bulgarian special services do not possess
information about the preparation of such an act," the Government Information
Service said on Thursday.

Later on Thursday, Bulgarian Interior Minister Tsvetan Tsvetanov said that, for
the time being, there is no reason to raise the level of security.

Israeli Transportation and Road Safety Ministry Security Chief Dani Shenar told
Darik News in an interview on Friday that two days ago he contacted his
colleagues in Sofia and Athens and asked them to tighten security around the
buses ferrying Israeli package tourists between airports and hotels after a
suspicious package was found during a check of a bus which was supposed to carry
Israeli tourists from Turkey to Sofia.

"As far as we are informed, an investigation is underway in Sofia regarding this
package, but we are not aware of its progress at this point. Actually this was
the incident which made us sound the alert and help us with the security of
Israeli groups," Shenar is quoted as saying. "However, we did not warn them
because we have any specific information whatsoever; nor do we have any sources
that have told us that anything will happen in your country."

Israel's Counter-Terrorism Bureau announced it has no concrete information
regarding a possible terrorist attack on Israeli tourists in Bulgaria. The
Bureau emphasized that the initial warning from the head of security at the
Transportation Ministry regarding increased security in European countries was
issued three weeks ago, Haaretz reported.

Source: BTA, Sofia, in English 1332 gmt 6 Jan 12

LOAD-DATE: January 7, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2012 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              11 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                          The Daily Telegraph (London)

                             January 6, 2012 Friday
                                   Edition 2;
                                National Edition

Nigerian church attacked after terror group's deadline expires

BYLINE: Raf Sanchez

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 17

LENGTH: 310 words


GUNMEN burst into a church in northern Nigeria last night, killing at least five
people in the latest attack of a coordinated campaign against the country's
Christians.

It followed a warning by the Islamist terrorist group Boko Haram, which said it
would begin attacking Christian civilians if they did not flee the mainly Muslim
north by Wednesday night.

Pastor Johnson Jauro said that several men attacked his Deeper Life Church in
Gombe in Nasarawa province during a prayer service, killing five worshippers
including his wife.

"I was leading the congregation in prayers. Our eyes were closed when some
gunmen stormed the church and opened fire on the congregation," he said.

There was no immediate claim of responsibility but suspicion fell on Boko Haram,
which has killed more than 500 people in the last year including at least 50 who
died in a church bombing near the capital Abuja on Christmas Day.

The terror group, whose name means "Western education is forbidden", is
committed to implementing sharia across Nigeria, a country which is roughly
evenly divided between Christians and Muslims.

It has carried out attacks against government troops and civilians since 2009
but in recent months has stepped up the tempo and sophistication of its
campaign, leading to fears Nigeria could descend into a full scale religious
civil war.

President Goodluck Jonathan on Saturday declared a state of emergency in four
states, giving the security forces wide-ranging powers to arrest suspected
militants and search homes.

A spokesman for Boko Haram said it would fight off the government incursion,
threatening to kill even Muslim soldiers if they entered the emergency zones.

Earlier in the day, the military arrested two Boko Haram members in the
north-eastern city of Maiduguri. The two were believed to be responsible for an
attack on Wednesday that killed two people.

LOAD-DATE: January 6, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DTL


                  Copyright 2012 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              12 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                      January 6, 2012 Friday 11:20 AM GMT

Aftermath of Damascus blast aired on Syria state TV;
Dozens of people have been killed in the explosion that targeted a police bus in
the Syrian capital that the state media described as a 'terrorist attack'.

LENGTH: 113 words


The "powerful explosion" struck in the Midan neighbourhood in the heart of the
city, Syrian state television said.

The broadcast went on to claim that "the attack took place in a heavily
populated working-class neighbourhood near a school" and "killed and wounded
dozens of people".

SANA news agency spoke of casualties among both civilians and security force
personnel and the wail of ambulance sirens was heard in the city centre.

The latest blast came ahead of planned mass protests by pro-democracy activists
to demand that an Arab League observer mission in Syria for two weeks
acknowledge its failure to stem nearly 10 months of bloodshed and hand over to
the United Nations.

LOAD-DATE: January 6, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTNS


                  Copyright 2012 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              13 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                   The Mirror

                            January 7, 2012 Saturday
                                 Ulster Edition

MUM'S FEAR AFTER 30 ATTACKS ON HER HOME;
PETROL BOMB TERROR FOR FAMILY

BYLINE: MAURICE FITZMAURICE

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 22

LENGTH: 325 words


A TERRIFIED mum is "living in fear" because of dozens of attacks on her home.

Mary Pearson spoke out after a petrol bomb was hurled into her backyard in North
Belfast.

But she said that Thursday night's attack is the latest in a catalogue of
incidents with windows smashed, paint splashed on her door and eggs thrown
through a window.

Mary, from Jamaica Street in Ardoyne, claims the incidents are being
orchestrated by a local man accused of breaking into houses and who has fallen
out with a friend of her teenage son.

She told the Daily Mirror: "This has been going on since October.

"I've lived in this house for four years and never had any trouble but now it's
non-stop.

"The police are never out of the place. One night we had 15 windows smashed and
I'm living in a house with grills on the windows and there's a load of them
boarded up.

"The door's covered in paint and there's eggs all over the ceiling upstairs.

"Since October I think there's been about 30 calls to the police. I've been on
the transfer list for about six months now.

"I just can't live here any more. These are horrible people who are doing this."

Mary was in the house with her 17-year-old son and a neighbour when the fire
bomb landed She revealed her son put the fire out before it spread.

And he was able to get the neck of the bottle which was taken away for
examination.

Ardoyne Sinn Fein councillor Gerard McCabe said: "There were three people in the
house at the time of the attack and they could easily have been badly injured or
worse.

"This is the latest in a number of attacks on the house and it is still not
known what motive is behind them.

"The family wish to be moved and Sinn Fein have been working with them and the
several agencies involved to accommodate the family's wishes.

"The attacks should stop immediately before a fatality occurs.

"Anyone with any information on the attack should contact the PSNI."

Any witnesses should contact Tennent Street CID on 0845 600 8000.

LOAD-DATE: January 7, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: TARGET Mary's house SHATTERED Mary Pearson at her Belfast home
yesterday

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                            Copyright 2012 MGN Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              14 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring Middle East - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                             January 8, 2012 Sunday

Syrian Journalists Union denounces "terrorist" attacks

LENGTH: 1015 words


Text of report in English by state-run Syrian news agency SANA website;
subheading as published

["Local and" - SANA Headline]

CAPITALS, (SANA) -The Syrian Journalists Union on Saturday [7 January] denounced
the terrorist bombing which took place in al-Midan neighbourhood on Friday,
affirming that acts of terrorism will not prevent Syrians from continuing the
process of reform led by President Bashar al-Assad.

In a statement, the Union said that after the conspirators failed to undermine
Syria's stability and national unity, they resorted to bombings and random
murder to affect citizens' morale, stressing that the foreign forces which
failed to impose their will on Syria are supporting these underhand methods.

The Union affirmed that the Syrian people are determined to foil the conspiracy
and protect Syria, saluting the steadfastness of the Syrian army and security
forces and praying to God to have mercy on the souls of martyrs and grant the
wounded a speedy recovery.

In a similar statement, the General Union of Farmers in Syria denounced the
terrorist bombing, affirming that such attacks threaten all Syrians and show the
desperation of conspirators who think that they can dissuade Syria from its
stances.

The Union stressed the importance of being aware of the plot targeting Syria,
saying that this bombing will only make the Syrians stronger and more determined
to emerge victorious, offering condolences to the families of the martyrs and
wishing the wounded a speedy recovery.

General Federation of Trade Unions condemned the criminal attack, stressing that
such attack which target the state institutions and the security of the homeland
and citizens will enhance the unity of the Syrian people and rallying around
President Bashar al-Assad.

The General Women's Union also condemned the terrorist attack, describing it as
"a coward act" that indicates the failure of the forces conspiring against
Syria.

The Union called upon the Syrians, in a statement, to be united in the face of
the conspiracies hatched against their country in an attempt at undermining its
national and pan-Arab stances.

The attack was also condemned by the National Ahd Party, the General Authority
for Palestinian Arab Refugees and the Syrian Consultancy Centre for Studies and
Human Rights.

Patriarch Gregorios III Laham of Antioch and All the East and Alexandria of the
Roman Catholics condemned the vicious terrorist bombing in al-Midan
neighbourhood.

In a statement, His Beatitude called upon the Syrian people for dialogue, amity
and unity in order to build Syria and realize the aspirations and demands of
all.

Arab parties, organizations and figures denounce the terrorist bombing

In Lebanon, Deputy Chairman of the Higher Shi'i Islamic Council sheikh Abdelamir
Kabalan denounced the terrorist attack, saying in a statement that this bombing
targets the Syrian efforts to end the current crisis and constitutes an answer
to the Syrian leadership's cooperation with the Arab work plan.

Former Lebanese MP Jihad al-Samad also denounced the bombing, warning that the
targeting of Syria aims at fragmenting it along with the entire region.

In turn, head of the Lebanese Popular Movement and former MP Mustafa Ali Hussein
condemned the attack, affirming support for the Syrian people in the face of the
conspiracy targeting Syria's security and stability.

The Assembly of Lebanese National Parties, Forces and Personalities also
denounced the attack, affirming that such criminal acts will only make Syria
stronger in the face of US-Zionist-western projects, and that treachery will not
cause Syria to submit to external dictations.

The National Union of Lebanese Farms issued a statement condemning the terrorist
bombing, saying that it shows the malice and bankruptcy of Syria's enemies who
realize that Syria is the backbone of Arab resistance which is why they seek to
destroy it from within.

The bombing was also condemned by head of the General Maronite Council and
former minister Wadih al-Khazen, Hezbollah's sheikh Atallah Hammoud, head of the
Reform and Unity Movement sheikh Maher Abdelrazzak, Muslim Scholars Assembly in
Lebanon, Jabal Amel Scholars Assembly, member of the Liberation and Development
Bloc MP Abdul-Majid Saleh, member of Amal Movement Khalil Hamdan and MP Hussain
al-Mousawi.

In Yemen, the Regional Leadership of Al-Ba'th Arab Socialist Party issued a
statement denouncing the terrorist attack, saying that the conspiracy against
Syria aims to cover up the defeat of the US in Iraq and Israel in Lebanon,
calling on the Arab League observers to relay the truth faithfully.

In a similar statement, the Arab Socialist Union Party denounced the attack
saying that those who conspire against Syria failed to force Syria to change is
political course, voicing faith in the Syrians' ability to confront the plots
carried out by agents and mercenaries.

In the same context, the Popular Front for the Liberaiton of Palestine condemned
the terrorist bombing, offering condolences to the Syrian people and the
families of the martyrs.

Director of the Political Circle at the Palestinian Liberation Organization,
Anwar Abdul-Hadi, condemned the terrorist bombing, expressing confidence in the
Syrian people's ability to overcome the crisis their country is going through.

The Arab Ba'th Progressive Party in Jordan said the armed terrorist groups have
moved to carrying out bombings against innocent civilians after their failure to
achieve their goals through targeting the infrastructure in Syria, including gas
and oil transfer pipelines, railways, bridges and electricity generating plants.

In a statement, the Party condemned the terrorist bombing in al-Midan
neighbourhood, calling upon the Syrian leadership to mercilessly get rid of the
agents of the foreign powers that are working to undermine Syria's role.

For their part, the pan-Arab forces in Jordan released a statement in which they
expressed strong condemnation of the terrorist bombing and stressed standing by
Syria in the face of the conspiracy.

F.Allafi /H. Sabbagh

Source: SANA news agency website, Damascus in English 8 Jan 12

LOAD-DATE: January 8, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2012 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              15 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring Middle East - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                             January 8, 2012 Sunday

Syrian citizens denounce "terrorist" attack on neighbourhood in capital

LENGTH: 389 words


Text of report in English by state-run Syrian news agency SANA website

["Masses Gather in Hasaka, Qamishli and Daraa to Denounce al-Midan Terrorist
Bombing" - SANA Headline]

Governorates, (SANA) -Masses gathered on Saturday [7 January] in the main
squares of Hasaka city, Qamishli city and Dar'a city to denounce the terrorist
bombing which took place on Friday in al-Midan neighbourhood in Damascus.

Participants in the gathering voiced rejection of foreign interference in
Syria's internal affairs and affirm their support for the independent national
decision.

In Dar'a, the participants underlined that Syria will stay strong thanks to its
people's awareness, realization of the volume of the conspiracy and their
support to the leadership, hailing the army's sacrifices for the sake of
homeland.

Fares al-Ahmad, a citizen, expressed rejection of the coward terrorist bombing
which targeted innocent and safe people in al-Midan neighbourhood on Friday.

"Those who think that the terrorist acts could undermine the Syrians unity and
strength are mistaken," Salwa Jrace, another citizen, said.

In Hasaka, people of the province marched in rejection of the terrorist blast in
Damascus which killed and injured dozens of people. They carried the national
flag and banners that express popular anger with the attempts of targeting
Syria.

The participants expressed their support to the reform and development process
taking place in the country.

Mohammad al-Khaled called the Syrian people to be united in the face of the
conspiracies and schemes targeting Syria by using sordid means.

In Qamishli, people gathered at Saba Bahrat Square in condemnation of the
terrorist act, carrying the national flag and banners that call for unifying all
ranks to foil the foreign scheme.

Lawyer Abdul Naem al-Hamid said that the Syrian people will not allow those
criminals to wreak havoc in the homeland and the law will punish all those whose
hand were stained with innocent people's blood, stressing that Syria will
overcome the crisis.

In Tartus, people of different youth and popular bodies organized a candle match
at the National Museum Square, condemning the terrorist act, mourning the
martyrs, underlining the national unity and supporting the comprehensive reform
process.

English Bulletin

Source: SANA news agency website, Damascus in English 7 Jan 12

LOAD-DATE: January 8, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2012 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              16 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring Middle East - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                             January 8, 2012 Sunday

Syria buries citizens killed in 6 January "terrorist" attack

LENGTH: 573 words


Text of report in English by state-run Syrian news agency SANA website

["With Mass Popular and Official Participation, Martyrs Killed in al-Midan
Terrorist Bombing Laid to R..." - SANA Headline]

Damascus, (SANA) -The bodies of the martyrs who fell during the terrorist attack
which took place on Friday [6 January] in al-Midan neighbourhood in Damascus
were escorted to their final resting places in a solemn mass popular and
official procession.

After holding prayers for the martyrs at al-Hasan Mosque, official ceremonies
were held for the martyrs whose bodies were wrapped in Syrian flags and carried
on shoulders among the chants of citizens who gathered to participate in the
procession.

The gathering citizens denounced the heinous crimes committed by armed terrorist
groups and affirmed the Syrian people's adherence to national unity and
determination to remains steadfast to foil the conspiracy targeting Syria.

Sheikh Bashir Id al-Bari, Mufti of Damascus, said that Martyrdom is a sublime
rank that cannot be bestowed upon anybody except great people and in Syria there
are great people that do not get affected by terrorism, horror or sorrow.

He added that Syria does not know cowardice and knows the right Islam.

The Sheikh asked the nations that call for human rights whether they applied
them in Gaza. "We did not hear the voices of human right callers when women and
children in Gaza were killed," he added.

Id al-Bari clarified that no person has the right to end their life because they
do not own it and they do not have the right to end others' lives.

He called for turning back to the right Islam and concluded by praying for God's
mercy on the martyrs' souls.

Minister of Awqaf (Religious Endowments) Dr Mohammad Abdul-Sattar said in a
statement to journalists that that Syria will remain strong despite all the
conspiracies hatched against it, considering the criminal terrorist attack in
al-Midan neighbourhood a clear evidence on the failure of the conspiracy and
those behind it.

He said that Syria has for long been the target of conspiracies because it has
stood defiant against all the attempts and plots of the US and Israel that are
aimed at plundering the resources and capabilities of the Arab and Islamic
nations.

The Minister stressed that the Syrians have said their word and clearly
expressed their patriotism and unity in the face of the conspiracy through
adhering to their national principles and the comprehensive reform programme
launched by President Bashar al-Assad.

For their part, families and relatives of the martyrs stressed their adherence
to national unity, adding that the blood of the martyrs will fortify Syria and
make it more powerful in the face of conspiracies and challenges.

Brother of the Martyr Haydar Khalid al-Hussein, Osama Khalid al-Hussein, called
upon the Syrians to unite against the plot which targets the Syrians and their
national unity.

Brother of the martyr Hamid Awwad al-Mohammad, Fahd Awwad al-Mohammad, asked "Is
this the freedom that the conspirators want to the Syrian people."

Salih al-Khalaf, father of martyr Nadeem al-Khalaf, stressed that this crime
won't undermine the Syrians' will and strength.

Mass crowds of citizens participated in the processions, chanting slogans
hailing the martyr and martyrdom and stressing that they all have chosen the
bath of martyrdom to preserve Syria's strength.

English Bulletin

Source: SANA news agency website, Damascus in English 8 Jan 12

LOAD-DATE: January 8, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2012 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              17 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                      ITN

                             January 8, 2012 Sunday

Nairobi terror attack warning

LENGTH: 187  words


Terrorists could be on the verge of launching attacks in the Kenyan capital
Nairobi, the Foreign Office has warned.

Terrorists could be on the verge of launching attacks in the Kenyan capital
Nairobi, the Foreign Office has warned in an alert to Britons in the country.

The Kenyan authorities, who are engaged in military action against al
Qaida-linked al-Shabab militants in southern Somalia, reportedly killing 50 in
an air strike on Friday, have increased security in the city.

In an update to its travel advice, the Foreign Office said: "The Kenyan
authorities have alerted the public to a heightened threat from terrorist
attacks in Nairobi.

"We believe that terrorists may be in the final stages of planning attacks.
Attacks could be indiscriminate and target Kenyan institutions as well as places
where expatriates and foreign travellers gather, such as hotels, shopping
centres and beaches.

"We strongly advise British nationals to exercise extra vigilance and caution in
public places and at public events."

It already cautioned against all but essential travel to the city's poorest
areas, including townships and slums.

LOAD-DATE: January 8, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: 260


              Copyright 2012 Independent Television News Limited.
              Provided by Syndigate.info, an Albawaba.com company
                              All Rights Reserved

                              18 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                             The Observer (London)

                                January 8, 2012

World: Terrorist attacks feared in Kenya

BYLINE: Clar Ni Chonghaile

SECTION: OBSERVER WORLD NEWS PAGES; Pg. 22

LENGTH: 203 words


Terrorists may be in the final stages of planning attacks on the Kenyan capital,
Nairobi, the Foreign Office warned yesterday, saying that Kenyan authorities had
told the public of a "heightened threat".

"Attacks could be indiscriminate and target Kenyan institutions as well as
places where expatriates and foreign travellers gather, such as hotels, shopping
centres and beaches," a Foreign Office spokesperson said. Britons were advised
to exercise extra vigilance and caution.

Security concerns in Nairobi have grown since hundreds of Kenyan troops crossed
the border into neighbouring Somalia in October in pursuit of Islamist militants
from the al-Shabaab group. Linked to al-Qaida, al-Shabaab is blamed by the
authorities for a series of raids into Kenya and kidnappings.

The militants have repeatedly threatened to attack Nairobi in retaliation for
the incursion. Since Kenyan troops crossed the border, there have been two
grenade attacks on a bar and bus stop in Nairobi, and a series of bombings and
shootings in the remote north-east in which at least 30 people have died. Kenyan
authorities have arrested a number of alleged members of al-Shabaab in recent
weeks, including a Briton who was detained in December.


LOAD-DATE: January 8, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2012 Guardian Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              19 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                                Sunday Sun (UK)

                                January 8, 2012
                                  1st Edition

TERROR ATTACK CONCERNS

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 27

LENGTH: 65 words


TERRORISTS may be on the verge of launching terror attacks in the Kenyan capital
Nairobi, the Foreign Office has warned.

The Kenyan authorities, who are engaged in military action against al
Qaida-linked al-Shabab militants have increased security in the city.

The Foreign Office said: "We believe terrorists may be in the final stages of
planning attacks. Attacks could be indiscriminate."

LOAD-DATE: January 8, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: ss


                           Copyright 2012 MGN Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              20 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                      January 8, 2012 Sunday 11:11 PM GMT

Kenyan police close in on British woman connected to terror attacks;
Kenyan police claimed to be closing in on a British woman connected to plans to
carry out terrorist attacks even as local officials question the Foreign Office
decision to warn that a strike was being planned in Nairobi.

BYLINE: By Mike Pflanz Nairobi

LENGTH: 471 words


An arrest warrant has been issued for Natalie Faye Webb, who is suspected to
have entered Kenya illegally with a forged South African passport.

She is believed to have links to Somali Islamists who have vowed to launch fresh
terror attacks since Kenya went to war to rout the radical group al-Shabaab.

"We have had some positive feedback from publishing her picture, and I can say
the dragnet is closing," a senior police source in Nairobi said.

"I can give no details, but suffice it to say that we believe she is not a small
fish. She is among several Britons that our intelligence service is aware of in
relation to terrorists' plans to attack us."

A Newham man, Jermaine Grant, is due to appear at a Kenyan court on Thursday to
answer charges of possessing explosives and preparing an attack.

He was arrested in the coastal town of Mombasa last month, in an apartment where
police also found chemicals, batteries and an electric switch.

Kenya is on heightened alert after police warned on Friday that there was a risk
of fresh terror strikes following its invasion of Somalia in October to crush
al-Shabaab, which has links to al-Qaeda.

The Foreign Office issued an update to its travel advisory for British tourists
travelling to Kenya after the police warning last week.

The renewed advice was prompted by the Kenyan alert.

But British intelligence officials, who have been in Mombasa helping Kenya's
terror investigations, are understood to have separate information which points
to the threat of an impending attack in the capital, Nairobi.

"The Kenyan authorities have alerted the public to a heightened threat from
terrorist attacks in Nairobi," the updated Foreign Office advice states.

"We believe that terrorists may be in the final stages of planning attacks. We
strongly advise British Nationals to exercise extra vigilance and caution in
public places and at public events."

Foreign Office spokesman would not give details of the new threat, citing
security reasons and for fear of jeopardising intelligence operations.

Alfred Mutua, the government spokesman in Nairobi, could not be reached
yesterday, but a senior government source said: "We have no information of any
new attack, only that we know Shabaab are waiting to do something."

"We just want to be very alert because our Kenya Defence Forces are doing a very
good job in Somalia," Anthony Kibuchi, Nairobi's police chief, said on Saturday
after Kenya's new terror warning.

"Now the sympathisers of al-Shabaab are like a wounded buffalo, very dangerous.
I was just asking members of the public to be extra alert."

The Foreign Office spokesman refused to comment on specific reasons for the new
warning to British visitors.

"We are aware that the Kenyan authorities are interested in speaking to British
nationals in relation to possible links to al-Shabaab," she added.

LOAD-DATE: January 8, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTNS


                  Copyright 2012 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              21 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                              The Herald (Glasgow)

                             January 9, 2012 Monday
                                   1 Edition

Fears of terrorist attack on parade

BYLINE: NO BYLINE

SECTION: HS - NEWS; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 54 words


manila: The Philippine president has warned of a possible terrorist attack
during an annual Catholic procession in Manila that may draw more than a million
devotees. President Benigno Aquino yesterday said several suspects planning to
disrupt the religious procession have been sighted in the capital and security
would be tight.

LOAD-DATE: January 9, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: GH


                      Copyright 2012 Newsquest Media Group
                              All Rights Reserved

                              22 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                      January 9, 2012 Monday 12:13 PM GMT

drpgroup;
The devastating impact of the 9/11 terrorist attacks in 2001 was felt across the
world and by UK businesses thousands of miles from the Twin Towers in New York.

LENGTH: 142 words


Communications expert drpgroup lost sixty per cent of its business overnight as
the bottom dropped out of the travel market, its travel agency and airline
clients no longer needing the event-management that had been drp's staple
offering.

Managing Director Dale Parmenter tells the Telegraph Business Club how the
company refocused and restructured, returning to the corporate video production
that launched the business in 1980. It re-launched in 2005 as a fully integrated
communications agency and production company.

At the heart of the success of this 'one-stop' shop for multi-channel
communication services is its people, Dale says.

Company name: drpgroup

Location: London / Worcester

Number of employees: 100 plus

Turnover: Over £10M

Founded: 1980

LOAD-DATE: January 9, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTNS


                  Copyright 2012 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              23 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                       BBC Monitoring Africa - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                            January 10, 2012 Tuesday

Police warn of possible terror attack in northeastern Kenya

LENGTH: 541 words


Text of report by Adow Jubat and Vincent Mabatuk entitled "Police boss warns
locals of terror attack threat" published by Kenyan privately-owned daily
newspaper The Standard website on 10 January, subheadings as published

Residents of North Eastern Province [NEP] have been urged to be on the alert
following intelligence reports of an impending suicide bombing attack by
Al-Shabab.

Addressing the press in his office, NEP police boss Leo Nyongesa urged wananchi
[citizens] to be extra vigilant and report any suspicious-looking characters to
the authorities.

"It is my appeal to the locals to assist the security apparatus in the region in
identifying these criminal gangs through the community policing spirit. We
believe we will achieve very little without their support," said the police
boss.

His statement comes just a day after police in Garissa arrested two suspects in
connection with the 31 December terror attack at a local bar.

Five people were killed and more than 20 injured during celebrations to usher in
the New Year.

Among the dead were a GSU [General Service Unit] and Administration Police
officers.

The two suspects - a former police officer and a taxi driver - are being held at
Garissa Police Station.

The PPO [Provincial Police Officer] said a jungle police jacket was found in the
house of one of the suspects.

Crucial information

"We believe the two have crucial information that will greatly assist us in
getting those who were involved in the incident," he said.

In total, 19 people have been killed in Garissa, among them five security
officers, after Kenya sent its troops into Somalia in October to hunt down
Al-Shabab insurgents who have been blamed for a series of murders and
kidnappings on Kenyan soil.

Elsewhere, Internal Security PS [Permanent Secretary] Francis Kimemia has down
played the warning by the British government of a possible terror attack.

Speaking in Nakuru town only a day after the warning was issued, the PS said
there was no need for alarm because security had been intensified.

"It was unnecessary for the British High Commission to issue such reminders,"
said Kimemia, adding that extra security measures had been put in place to
ensure the country is safe.

On Saturday, Britain advised its nationals to exercise extra vigilance and
caution in public places and events over what they termed as a heightened threat
of terrorist attacks in Nairobi by Al-Shabab.

Kimemia said the country had been on high alert since the Kenya Defence Forces
entered Somalia in efforts to weed out Al-Shabab insurgents.

More security

And on matters of the next general election, the PS assured that those
responsible for the country's security would work closely with the Independent
Electoral Boundary Commission to ensure that security standards were maintained
during the election period.

"We also appeal to Kenyans to assist us in pointing out places they feel need
more security and we will provide it," said Kimemia.

The PS made the remarks during the consecration of new Nakuru ACK Bishop Joseph
Muchai.

While addressing the congregation, Roads Assistant Minister Lee Kinyanjui called
on the church to pray for the soldiers currently in Somalia and their families.

Source: The Standard website, Nairobi, in English 10 Jan 12

LOAD-DATE: January 10, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2012 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              24 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                                Evening Gazette

                           January 11, 2012 Wednesday
                                  1st Edition

Trio guilty of terror attack that led to man losing legs

BYLINE: LAURA WOODCOCK

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 546 words


THREE men have been found guilty of an extremely violent attack on a Teesside
dad which left him with horrific injuries.

Andrew Daniels, 36, Mark Alec Daniels, 34, and Kevin Dawson, 35, were yesterday
found guilty of causing grievous bodily harm with intent to Kevin Harland.

The ex-boxer was crushed between a gate and pillar outside his sister's
Grangetown home in July 2009 before being stabbed in the leg with a Samurai
sword.

His injuries were described as so horrific his left foot was attached only by a
few tendons.

The lower part of this leg had to be amputated by surgeons and in the last few
months Mr Harland has also lost his right leg as well.

He also lost between 30% and 40% of his blood.

Andrew Daniels, Mark Alec Daniels, - both of Bolckow Road, Grangetown - and
Kevin Dawson, of Tenby Close, Eston, denied the attack.

A fourth man - Brian Letchford, of Lanchester Road, Grangetown - admitted the
charge of GBH with intent after all four were previously cleared of attempted
murder at Newcastle Crown Court.

In March 2010, all four men were found guilty at Teesside Crown Court and were
passed prison sentences totalling at least 43 years.

But in February last year, the men made a bid at the Court of Appeal to overturn
their convictions and a retrial was arranged.

During the retrial, Prosecutor Adrian Waterman QC used the analogy of a jigsaw
as he spoke to the jury.

He said: "If you study each of the pieces in the box separately, no matter how
closely you look at it, you would not be able to work out the picture.

"Only if the pieces are put together does the picture emerge, but only by
standing back and looking back at that whole picture can you see what it really
is.

"Even if there are some pieces missing it does not stop you seeing that
picture."

But Paul Greaney QC, representing Dawson, told the jury not to adopt an approach
of "guilt by association".

Yesterday the jury unanimously found the three men guilty.

All four men are due to be sentenced this Friday.

Speaking at Newcastle Crown Court after the verdict came in, Detective Sergeant
Lew Matthews of Cleveland Police, said: "This has been two-and-a-half years of
stress and worry for not only the victim but the witnesses involved.

"We are pleased with the result."

He added: "The incident involved an extremely violent attack on the victim Kevin
Harland.

"It commenced with a determined and eventually successful effort to run him down
with a car.

"This was followed by a cowardly attack with a sword as he lay severely injured
and defenceless on the ground.

"His injuries were horrific and ultimately resulted in him having amputations to
both lower legs.

"Had it not been for the quick thinking of some residents who applied
tourniquets to his legs he could have easily lost his life.

"The physical and mental injuries he has suffered have had a devastating impact
not only on Kevin but also his family.

"Due to fear of reprisals it can be very difficult to find witnesses in
Grangetown who are willing to speak to the police. I am grateful to those
witnesses who have had the courage to give evidence in this case.

"I hope that the outcome of the case will provide the victim and his family with
some peace of mind and allow them to move with their lives."

LOAD-DATE: January 11, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:  INJURED: Kevin Harland, above, had his left leg amputated after being
hit with a car and then attacked with a sword. He later also lost his right leg
because of the injuries he sustained GUILTY: From left, Andrew Daniels, Mark
Daniels and Kevin Dawson, above

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: gz


                    Copyright 2012 Gazette Media Company Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                              25 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                       BBC Monitoring Africa - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                           January 12, 2012 Thursday

US embassy in Uganda evacuated over fears of terror attack

LENGTH: 443 words


Text of report entitled "Emergency evacuation at US embassy" by leading
privately-owned Ugandan newspaper The Daily Monitor website on 12 January

There was emergency evacuation of staff at the US embassy in Kampala yesterday
after a powdered substance was discovered in a package delivered to the Human
Resource section. The envelope, sources said, was initially thought to contain
an application letter but when officials found pulverised ingredients, an
announcement was made on speakers instructing staff to immediately leave the
building.

"The embassy received a small piece of mail containing unknown substance," Mr
Daniel Travis, the public affairs officer, said. "That substance is being tested
and we expect the embassy to open [today] as usual."

Findings of the powdered matter raised fears of possible anthrax attack partly
because the country is presently tense after police warned last month that
terrorists were planning to strike anytime.

Mr Travis said there was no immediate indication the "unknown substance" could
be lethal and that employees were "allowed to leave as a precautionary measure".

The incident reportedly occurred at around 4.00 p.m., when the embassy was due
to close official business.

Security

Embassy's security at the US Mission building located in Nsambya, a Kampala
suburb, is principally managed by Americans although Ugandan police keep guard
outside the fence.

The last police warning indicated that elements of Al-Shabab fighters already
infiltrated the country to carry attacks, and the force called for public
vigilance to stop the plot.

The Somali militant group claimed responsibility for the 11 July 2010 twin bomb
explosions in Kampala that killed more than 76 people, saying it was to avenge
UPDF's [Uganda People's Defence Forces] lead involvement in the (now expanded)
AMISOM [African Union Mission in Somalia] operations against them in Mogadishu.

Terror attack?

It was not immediately clear if yesterday's incident at the American embassy,
which like most Western facilities is a target for terrorists, was a real
bio-terrorism attempt or just a mock run by Al-Shabab or other radical outfit.

Washington provides substantial financial and logistical support to the AMISOM
operation now in its fifth year. The US government last issued a terror alert in
Uganda on 6 October 2011, saying it had received information terrorists would
strike during the Africa Nations Cup qualifier soccer match between Uganda
Cranes and Kenya's Harambee Stars at Namboole Stadium. Although no such attack
occurred as feared, the country's security forces have remained on alert.

Source: Daily Monitor website, Kampala, in English 12 Jan 12

LOAD-DATE: January 12, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2012 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              26 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                       BBC Monitoring Trans Caucasus Unit
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                           January 12, 2012 Thursday

Georgia: major "terrorist attack" reportedly prevented in rebel Abkhazia

LENGTH: 203 words


Text of report by Abkhaz separatist government's official news agency Apsnypress

Sukhumi, 11 January: A major terrorist attack has been prevented in
[ethnic-Georgian populated] Gali District [of Georgia's breakaway Abkhazia]. The
representatives of the law enforcement agencies, who are investigating the
murder of [local policeman] Vitaliy Rodonaia [killed on 9 January], discovered
three TM-62 antitank mines and one antipersonnel mine of directive effect in the
outskirts of the village of Gagida [where Rodonaia was killed] in the evening of
10 January.

We would like to remind you that police captain and an operational policeman of
the interior ministry Gali department, Vitaliy Rodonaia, was killed in the
village of Gagida on 9 January.

All the four mines were connected with each other with an electricity wire and a
place, from where terrorists could presumably bring them into operation, was 45
metres off the cache.

The power of the explosive devices was equivalent to 21.5 kg of TNT.

The mines rendered harmless by engineers of the department for emergency
situations were delivered to the prosecutor's office in Gali. The case is being
investigated into.

Source: Apsnypress, Sukhumi, in Russian 1625gmt 11 Jan 12

LOAD-DATE: January 12, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2012 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              27 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring Middle East - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                           January 12, 2012 Thursday

Syrian government raps "terrorist attack" on French journalist

LENGTH: 416 words


Text of report in English by state-run Syrian news agency SANA website

["Information Ministry Official Source condemns terrorist Aggression on French
Journalist Jacquier" -SANA Headline]

DAMASCUS, 11 January (SANA) - An official source at the Ministry of Information
Wednesday stated that a team of foreign journalists came under fire of mortars
by an armed terrorist group while they were on a field visit at Ekrima new
neighbourhood in Homs, photographing damages of the mortars that hit a number of
buildings by terrorists.

The terrorist act led to the martyrdom of 8 citizens in addition to French
Journalist Gilles Jacquier, the correspondent of France 2 TV, and injuring 25
others, some of them in critical conditions.

The source added that the field tour of the foreign media delegation in Homs
comes in the framework of Syria's admission for the mass media to move freely in
different Syrian regions and convey the events to the world public opinion.

The team comprises 12 journalists including 3 from France 2 TV Gilles Jacquier,
Caroline Martin, Bouiron Christopher, 5 journalists from Belgian VRT TV Roddy
Karl Franky, Jean Keril Pek, Philippe Vanhake, Jean-Mark Frauksin, Chris De
Tegel, 2 journalists from French La Vie Magazine Jacques Doulissi and Steven
Vassenar, 2 journalists from Swiss Magazine Hebido Patrick Valilian and
Sid-Ahmed Hashouche in addition to 3 companions, translator Nour Hakki from
Syria, Josef Eid and Mireille Abi Nader from Lebanon.

The source said that the Ministry of Information expresses deep regret and
sorrow over the death of martyrs from Syria and its guests and condemns this
terrorist aggression on the French Journalist while performing his press duty.

The Ministry of Information stresses that the act is an extension of the terror
chain Syria is exposed to, adding that it comes in the context of the
terrorists' bid to distort the real image of what is happening in Syria.

National Media Council expressed solidarity with families of the act victims
perpetrated by an armed terrorist group today.

The Council condemned the coward terrorist attack on the journalists while
performing their duty to convey the reality and uncover the terror that target
Syria and its people.

It offered sincere condolences to the victims' families, the family of French
Journalist Gilles Jacquier and France 2 TV, wishing quick recovery to the
Belgian Journalist and to all the injured by the terrorist attacks.

Source: SANA news agency website, Damascus in English 11 Jan 12

LOAD-DATE: January 12, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2012 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              28 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring Middle East - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                            January 13, 2012 Friday

"Terrorist" groups escalate attacks on civilians, journalists - Syrian minister

LENGTH: 1005 words


Text of report in English by state-run Syrian news agency SANA website

["Information minister: Terrorist Groups Escalate Attacks against Civilians,
Journalists and Public In..." - SANA Headline]

Damascus, (SANA) - Information Minister Adnan Mahmud on Thursday [12 January]
strongly condemned the terrorist attack against a foreign media delegation in
Homs yesterday while performing their press duty which claimed the life of
French journalist, Gilles Jacquier, the correspondent of France 2 TV and eight
Syrian citizens.

"This coward act aims at silencing the voice and distorting the real image of
the terrorist acts in Syria in front of the world public opinion this attack
will not deter us from continuing cooperation with different mass media to
present the real image of the events in Syria," Minister Mahmud said during a
meeting with a delegation of the Syrian community in Federal Russia and the
independent states.

He underlined the importance of communication among the Syrian citizens abroad
with their homeland and contact with media institutions to convey the real image
of what is going on in Syria to the public opinion abroad.

The minister referred to the terror escalation of the armed terrorist groups
against citizens, public and private properties.

He said that the ministry gave licenses of entry and work to 145 Arab and
foreign media institutions since December to inspect the events in the country
and relay the reality in a credible and objective way.

The minister added that Syria is determined to carry out reforms according to a
timetable and combat terrorism in order to restore stability and security.

Members of the visiting delegation underlined their support to the Homeland
against foreign intervention, backing the comprehensive reform programme, adding
that the visit comes in the framework of showing support to the reforms.

Ammoura: Syrian people's awareness and solidarity with their leadership divulged
conspiracy

Earlier, Assistant Foreign and Expatriates Minister Abd-al Fattah Ammoura
briefed the delegation on the conspiracy hatched against Syria with the aim of
to undermining its stability, security and independent sovereign national
decision.

He stressed that the Syrian people's awareness, unity and solidarity with their
leadership have divulged the conspiracy aiming at dividing them.

Ammoura said that the mass gatherings of Syrian citizens at Syria's main squares
have stressed their support to the comprehensive reform programme led by
President Bashar al-Assad, their rejection of the foreign interference in
Syria's internal affairs and their condemnation of the crimes committed by the
armed terrorist groups.

He added that the recent terrorist attacks and bombings have also revealed the
sabotaging role of the conspiracy's tools.

Ammoura underlined the role of the Syrian communities abroad in conveying the
reality of the situation in Syria away from the misleading media campaigns.

For their part, the delegation members expressed their standing by the homeland
and their absolute support to the reform programme, stressing readiness to
defend Syria.

In a statement to SANA, Head of the delegation , Wael Junaid said that the visit
expresses the delegation's support to the ongoing reforms and their desire to be
part of these reforms.

He added that Syria will get out of the current crisis stronger , expressing the
delegation members' pride in their homeland despite of all the misleading and
instigative campaigns launched by some Arab and Western satellite channels.

He indicated to the Syrian community's efforts in organizing rallies in Russia
to express support to the homeland and to convey a real image about the
situation on the ground to the Syrian Community and the friendly people of
Russia.

Chairman of journalists' union emphasizes role of Syrian communities in
conveying true image about situation in Syria

Chairman of the Syrian Journalists' Union Elias Murad said that the media
campaign against Syria and the distorted image promoted by Arab and foreign
media are aimed at bending facts and harming the Syrian society and the state's
institutions, especially the army and security.

During his meeting on Thursday with the delegation of the Syrian community in
Russia and the independent states, Murad underlined the importance of visits
paid by the Syrian communities to motherland Syria in conveying the true image
about the situation in Syria to the world public opinion.

Wael Jneid, head of the Syrian community in Russia, said that the delegation's
visit comes to express standing by the homeland against the conspiracy targeting
it and in support of reforms.

He added that the Syrians in Russia have stressed rejection of foreign
interference in the Syrian internal affairs through organizing an array of
activities and rallies.

Delegation of Syrian community in Russia visits injured army members at Tishreen
military hospital

Members of the delegation visited the army members at Tishreen Military Hospital
who were injured while they were performing their national duty in confronting
the armed terrorist groups who perpetrate acts of killing, sabotage and
intimidation of citizens.

They expressed appreciation of the army members' sacrifices, affirming rejection
of the conspiracy facing Syria.

In a statement to SANA, Head of the delegation , Wael Junaid said "We came to
support the reform process led by President Bashar al-Assad, to inspect the
reality of the situations and to express our appreciation of the Syrian army's
sacrifices which defends our homeland and preserves its independence."

Azzam Al Rashi indicated that the news broadcast by the misleading channels is
very different from the reality of the situation.

For his part, Mohammad Kheir al-Ajouz said " This visit expresses solidarity
with the homeland and our leader, and it express rejection of the conspiracy and
the sedition. We came here to voice support to the national unity with the aim
of restoring peace and security to Syria."

Source: SANA news agency website, Damascus in English 13 Jan 12

LOAD-DATE: January 13, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2012 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              29 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                          The Guardian - Final Edition

                            January 13, 2012 Friday

G2: 'It's a classic terror tactic': Two years, five attacks, four killings.
While suspicion falls on Israel, Julian Borger asks who might be responsible for
the assassinations of scientists linked to Iran's nuclear programme?

BYLINE: Julian Borger

SECTION: GUARDIAN FEATURES PAGES; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 1243 words


On the choking, gridlocked streets of Tehran, motorcycles are taking on an
increasingly sinister aura. It is not just military officials and government
scientists who look twice in their wing mirrors when they see a motorbike sidle
up alongside them. What was once considered plain practical or occasionally hip
has now been tainted by its new role as a messenger of death.

When Mostafa Ahmadi-Roshan, a 32-year-old chemist, was killed in
Wednesday-morning traffic by motorcycle-borne assassins, it was the fifth time
in two years that a scientist from the state nuclear programme had been
targeted. Each time, the hit squad used a motorcycle.

In a crowded city such as Tehran, it is the ideal assassin's tool. Its rider can
be masked without appearing out of the ordinary; it can edge closer to its
target without attracting attention, and it can also ensure a quick getaway even
in the middle of rush hour, flying down the channels between the cars and
instantly blending in with a million other similar vehicles.

For some of the same reasons, the regime had used motorcycles against its own
people, unleashing bike-mounted black-shirted thugs, wielding blades to cut
through crowds of opposition demonstrators. There are some inside and outside
Iran who speculate that the assassinations could be carried out by the Iranian
"deep state" aimed at nuclear scientists it suspects of disloyalty.

The first victim of the scientist murders, Masoud Ali-Mohammadi - who was killed
in January 2010 by a bomb on a parked motorcycle as he walked from his house to
his car - was indeed a follower of the opposition Green movement, as well as a
senior official in the Institute of Applied Physics (IAP), where western
officials suspect a lot of research work is done.

So, both sides arguably had a motive for killing him.

However, there has been no mistaking the fury of the Tehran government in the
two years since as, one by one, its scientists - the crown jewels of its nuclear
aspirations - have been picked off. It would be a huge irony if the killers were
simply emulating the Iranian security apparatus.

The next attacks came in November 2010. In simultaneous and identical attacks,
two motorcycles pulled alongside two cars in different parts of Tehran, the
pillion passenger clamped a magnetic bomb to the door next to their intended
victim and sped away. One target, Majid Shahriari, another senior scientist in
the nuclear programme, was killed instantly. The other, Fereydoun Abbasi-Davani,
survived - the only survivor of the five attacks to date. He was also a big fish
at the IAP, and was made head of the overall Iranian atomic programme soon after
he recovered from the blast.

Target number four was Dariush Rezaeinejad, an electronics expert working for
the nuclear programme, reportedly working on high-voltage switches, a dual-use
item that can be used in nuclear warheads. He was shot in Tehran by two unknown
gunmen, who again arrived and left on motorbikes.

Wednesday's killing of Ahmadi-Roshan was a carbon copy of the November attacks
on Shahriari and Abbasi-Davani: the masked helmeted assassins on their bikes, a
limpet bomb shaped to do maximum damage inside the car, minimum damage outside.
Even the victim's car was the same, a silver Peugeot 405.

The Iranian government has blamed the US and Israel for the murders, mostly
Israel, and the Israelis themselves are doing little to deflect that blame.
While the White House and US state department denounced the killing, the Israeli
military spokesman, Brigadier General Yoav Mordechai, remarked on Facebook: "I
don't know who took revenge on the Iranian scientist, but I am definitely not
shedding a tear."

Israel certainly has a track record of assassinations, from the Palestinian
perpetrators of the Munich Olympic attack of 1972, to the killing of senior
Hamas official Mahmoud al-Mabhouh in a Dubai hotel room in early 2010. This
week, Le Figaro reported that Mossad had been recruiting Iranian dissidents in
the Kurdish region of neighbouring Iraq, to conduct operations in Iran.

"If you look at the choice of target it really could only be Israel," says
Robert Baer, a former CIA agent in the Middle East, currently working on a book
on assassination called The Perfect Kill.

"If it was an internal group, like the MeK ((Mujahedin-e-Khalq) it would be
security official or policeman who had been torturing their guys. If you look at
the motivation, it must be Israel."

However, Baer adds that it is quite likely that Israel is acting in tandem with
an Iranian dissident organisation. "To do this in the middle of the day, with a
limpet charge and then getaway, you need a lot of people on the ground," he
says. " You need an extensive network of the kind only someone like MeK can
provide."

An executive order dating back to the presidencies of Gerald Ford, Jimmy Carter
and Ronald Reagan prevents the CIA from carrying out political assassinations.
Exceptions have been made for Taliban and al-Qaida suspects on the grounds that
the US is at war with those organisations.

"We are not in a war with the Iranians, so if we were involved in any way we
would be culpable," says William Banks, an expert on national security law at
Syracuse University. "The executive order can be secretly waived by the
president, but then there are questions of international law and problems with
our European allies. Lashing out at those we are not at war with would also be a
moral issue, and would invite reciprocity."

All the targets of the assassination campaign appear to have been carefully
chosen. They were suspected of involvement in nuclear weaponisation, or in
Ahmadi-Roshan's case, the procurement of equipment for the Iranian uranium
enrichment project, which has been outlawed by the UN security council.

However, few observers of the Iranian nuclear programme believe that the
killings will seriously impede Iran's progress, either towards a nuclear weapon,
as the west maintains, or towards a civilian nuclear industry, as Tehran
insists.

David Albright, the head of the Institute for Science and International
Security, says: "The effect is not so much eliminating people, as they are
replaceable. It is a classic terror tactic, designed to make people feel their
own government can't protect them. It prevents people from participating and so
leads to a loss of recruitment."

Baer argues that the impact on the nuclear programme itself is likely to be so
minimal, it is unlikely to be the aim of the murder campaign.

"It's a provocation," he says. "My theory is that Israel couldn't get the White
House to agree to bombing. It is not satisfied with sanctions, so the Israelis
are trying to provoke the Iranians into launching a missile and starting a war."

Over two years, five attacks and four killings, Tehran has held its nerve, but
there were calls in the conservative Tehran press for revenge yesterday. And in
the Washington bomb plot last October and the storming of the UK embassy in
November, there are increasing signs that individual elements inside the regime,
in the Revolutionary Guards for example, are making their own decisions.

Captions:

The aftermath

of the blast that killed Iranian scientist Mostafa Ahmadi-Roshan (top right,
with his son) in Tehran

Photograph

Rex Features

Mourners carry the body of Iranian scientist Masoud Ali-Mohammadi (above and
below, top), killed in January 2010; and two other assassinated scientists Majid
Shahriari (below centre) and Dariush Rezaeinejad (bottom)

LOAD-DATE: January 13, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2012 Guardian Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              30 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                      January 13, 2012 Friday 1:56 PM GMT

US warns of 'credible' Thai terror threat as Hezbollah suspect is arrested;
The US has warned of a "real and very credible" threat of a terrorist attack in
Bangkok, the first such warning in recent memory.

LENGTH: 128 words


US ambassador Kristie Kenney's warning came as Thai authorities arrested a
Lebanese Hezbollah suspect.

Deputy Prime Minister Chalerm Yumbumrung said police had stepped up security
after the arrest and he was confident the situation would be contained.

Ms Kenney was elaborating on an "emergency message" sent by the embassy to
American citizens earlier Friday warning of a possible terrorist attack.

The message said that "foreign terrorists may be currently looking to conduct
attacks against tourist areas in Bangkok in the near future." It urged Americans
to "keep a low profile" in public and to exercise caution in areas where Western
tourists gather.

Ms Kenney told The Associated Press the threat was "real and very credible." She
didn't give any other information.

LOAD-DATE: January 13, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTNS


                  Copyright 2012 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              31 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring South Asia - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                           January 14, 2012 Saturday

Pakistan: Government installations on high alert after terror attack threats

LENGTH: 714 words


Text of report headlined "Suicide attacks in big cities feared" published by
Pakistani newspaper The Nation website on 13 January

Lahore: The law-enforcement agencies have been put on high-alert across the
country to thwart any possible terror attacks especially in the major cities as
foreign- sponsored terrorists have launched psychological war against Pakistan
Army, threatening suicidal attacks on government installations, religious
gatherings and security forces.

It was reliably learnt that a great number of fake videos and forged photos have
been uploaded by Taliban elements on different propaganda websites to prompt
innocent people to join their groups.

The aim is to show Pak Army as their real enemy while boasting jingles and
catchwords are being used with a firm resolve to defeat Pak Army. They also show
videos of Taliban successes like downing of US Chinook Chopper, IED Operations
and cutting throats of an alleged spy.

Highly-placed sources confided to The Nation on Thursday that several Taliban
groups have intensified psychological war against the security forces by using
various media tools including internet and cellular phone technology besides
printed and provocative materials, circulating in various parts of the country.
It is also learnt that having succeeded to mentally envelop the simple and
straightforward individuals into their treacherous folds, the terrorists
motivate their ranks by projecting Pakistani security forces as their enemy, who
have allegedly joined hands with US. The terrorists also make speeches using
phrases and slogans while glorifying the killed Taliban by showing their bodies
with Jihadi music or poems (in Pushto) played in the background on the sites.

The video clips also show fake scenes of destroyed tanks of Pakistani Army in
Swat and forged photos. Some forged and tailored pictures also show Pak Army
soldiers' alleged involvement in torturing the prisoners.

A few fictitious photographs of Pak Army soldiers resting in hilly areas with US
personnel are also circulating in various parts of the country.

Sources in the Federal government, who regularly monitor Taliban propaganda
websites, while confirming the development disclosed to this reporter that the
terrorists had stepped up employing 'clever schemes' and wicked propaganda to
attract youngsters to join their ranks and groups. 'During the last couple of
months, the government experts have observed that the Taliban have stepped up
their propaganda campaign to recruit youth. Battered by military operations in
the northwest, they (Taliban) are also uploading multiple messages with a firm
resolve to defeat Pak Army', an official familiar with the reports said.

According to him, such psychological techniques are used to motivate the
recruits to undertake terrorist training willingly.

'They also infuse a ray of hope in their ranks by boasting the fearlessness and
heroic bravery of terrorist leaders', a senior government official and security
expert said, requesting his identity not to be revealed.

Referring to the elements of Tehrik-e-Taliban Pakistan, he said that they
themselves had gone astray and were being supported by foreign masters to
accomplish their agenda. The propaganda video clips being used by them are
totally forged based on malicious intentions. They have no respect for religion
and Islam and use brutal acts of violence to meet their objectives, he said.

Recent example of cold blooded murder of 15 FC soldiers, who had been kidnapped
for ransom and or for negotiating swap with their top leaders already arrested
by security forces, is a case in point, he added.

'Infact, the command structure of the Taliban is splintered, fragile and divided
into many off-shoots and they are cash strapped as well', experts said.

According to security agencies, the Taliban elements were behind the bank
robberies, which took place in different parts of the country during the last
couple of months because they are running out of money.

This helps the Army and the government in the bigger picture because the Taliban
are now divided and weak.

Taking advantage of the situation, the government and military could separate
more leaders from the TTP and also fighters from their commanders.

Source: The Nation website, Islamabad, in English 13 Jan 12

LOAD-DATE: January 14, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2012 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              32 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                            BBC Monitoring Kiev Unit
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                           January 14, 2012 Saturday

Ukraine calls for political dialogue in Iraq after terror attacks in Basra

LENGTH: 111 words


Text of report by private Ukrainian news agency UNIAN

Kiev, 14 January: Ukraine has called on all political forces in Iraq to continue
a comprehensive dialogue to prevent the destabilization of the internal
political situation and ensure democratic development of society.

The Ukrainian Foreign Ministry issued a statement to this effect, the ministry's
department for information policy has told the Ukrainian news agency UNIAN.

The Ukrainian Foreign Ministry has expressed condolences to the families of
those killed and wished a speedy recovery to those wounded in terrorist attacks
in the city of Basra.

Source: UNIAN news agency, Kiev, in Ukrainian 1352 gmt 14 Jan 12

LOAD-DATE: January 14, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2012 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              33 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                              Western Daily Press

                           January 14, 2012 Saturday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

Man held amid Thai terror attack fears

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 72 words


A man with alleged links to Hezbollah militants is being questioned by Thai
police amid US warnings of a terror threat to its citizens in Bangkok. Thai
authorities received a tip-off before New Year of a planned attack, which was
said to target Israelis, deputy prime minister Chalerm Yubamrung said. Police on
Thursday detained one of two suspects from Lebanon with alleged links to
Hezbollah. The man was held under immigration laws.

LOAD-DATE: January 14, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: WDP


                    Copyright 2012 Northcliffe Media Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              34 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring Middle East - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                            January 15, 2012 Sunday

''Terrorists'' kill six in Syria attack

LENGTH: 224 words


Text of report in English by state-run Syrian news agency SANA website

["6 Workers Martyred, 16 Injured by Explosive Device in Idleb" - SANA Headline]

Idlib (SANA) - Six workers at Idlib Textile Spinning Factory were martyred and
16 others injured when an explosive device went off in Idlib.

The device was planted by terrorists along the road between Ariha city and
al-Mastouma town in the province. A police source told SANA correspondent that
the device exploded as a bus carrying workers at Idlib Spinning Factory was
passing, which caused it to overturn, leaving 6 dead and 16 others injured.

Members of the Engineering Units on Sunday [15 January] dismantled two explosive
devices, weighing 25 kg each, planted by an armed terrorist group near
Balyon-Kansafra Road in al-Zawiya Mountain in Idlib. SANA correspondent said
that the two explosives were planted near each other and connected with a
wireless and primed to explode remotely.

An armed terrorist group burglarized on Sunday an agricultural research centre
in al-Qariyatein area in Homs countryside and held up its contents.

SANA correspondent said that the terrorists broke into the centre, tied its
guards and stole 4 guns, 260 olive oil bottles, tires. car spare parts and
tractors before destroying the centre's furniture.

Source: SANA news agency website, Damascus in English 15 Jan 12

LOAD-DATE: January 15, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2012 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              35 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                               Belfast Telegraph

                            January 16, 2012 Monday
                                 First Edition

Terrorism attacks in 2011 down by quarter

BYLINE: BREANDAN MORLEY

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 358 words


THE number of shootings and bombings here fell by over a quarter during 2011,
reflecting Northern Ireland's improving political and security situation.

Figures released by the PSNI reveal that 2011 saw a 27% drop in bombing and
shooting incidents compared with the previous year, falling from 171 to 124.

There was one terror-related death, that of policeman Ronan Kerr, who was killed
in April by an under-car bomb in Omagh, Co Tyrone.

He was the second policeman to be killed by dissidents.

The PSNI made 151 terror-related arrests last year and 32 people were charged.

This compares with 205 arrests and 48 charged in 2010.

A total of 160 firearms were seized last year (up from 105), as well as 32.4kg
(71.3lb) of explosives, compared with just 3kg in 2010.

There were 60 shootings, down from 81 in 2010.

The figure includes the discharge of shots by both terrorists and members of the
security forces, as well as paramilitary-style attacks by both loyalist and
republican paramilitaries.

A total of 64 bombings took place in 2011, a drop of 26 on the previous year.

Most of the 67 devices used were small in size. Dissidents have not successfully
detonated a large bomb since 29 civilians were killed in Omagh in 1998, although
attempts have been made.

The number of so-called punishment attacks by paramilitaries fell from 94 in
2010 to 73 last year, of which 46 were by republicans and 27 by loyalists.

Guns were not used in any such attacks by loyalists.

Analysis of trends in terrorist violence shows that the peak of the dissident
campaign, which took off after the IRA's second ceasefire in 1997, was in 2001.
In that year, there were 355 shootings and 349 explosions and attempted
bombings, including incidents where devices were defused.

The quietest year for the security forces was 2008, with 42 shootings and 37
bombings.

There was a sharp increase in attacks the following year, with shootings up 78%
and bombings by 37%, as a new republican terror group, Oglaigh na hEireann
(ONH), became more active.

The worst year for terrorism in Northern Ireland was 1972, with more than 10,000
violent incidents, and 470 deaths.

CAPTION: Murdered: Ronan Kerr

LOAD-DATE: January 16, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: BT


                Copyright 2012 Belfast Telegraph Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              36 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                  M2 PressWIRE

                            January 16, 2012 Monday

Top UN envoy condemns terrorist attack on Iraqi pilgrims

LENGTH: 198 words


January 14, 2012

The top United Nations envoy in Iraq has strongly condemned the terrorist attack
that occurred on Saturday on pilgrims in the southern city of Basra, resulting
in a large number of deaths and injuries.



At least 50 people are reportedly dead following the suicide attack that took
place at a checkpoint en route to a Shia Muslim mosque.

"Today's terrorist attack claimed the precious lives of Iraqis who were
gathering on the occasion of Arbaeen to practice their religion. I am saddened
by these horrific crimes that continue to target defenceless civilians," said
Martin Kobler.

"I call on all Iraqis to maintain the shared bonds that are so deeply rooted in
their collective memory to break the vicious circle of violence.

"It is time for Iraq to reconcile and heal, not to continue to bleed," added Mr.
Kobler, who is the Secretary-General's Special Representative and head of the UN
Assistance Mission for Iraq ( UNAMI ).

He extended his condolences to the bereaved families and his wishes for a full
and speedy recovery to the wounded. He also expressed his full support for
Iraqis in their resolve to continue advancing peace, stability and national
reconciliation.

LOAD-DATE: January 16, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newswire

JOURNAL-CODE: M2PW


                      Copyright 2012 Normans Media Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              37 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                              DAILY MAIL (London)

                            January 17, 2012 Tuesday

IRAN TERRORIST ATTACKS 'WOULD FOLLOW OIL BAN'

LENGTH: 194 words


IRAN could launch a Lockerbie-style terrorist strike if it is hit with an
international oil embargo, an academic warned last night.

Professor Paul Stevens, a senior research fellow at think-tank Chatham House,
said it was 'extremely unlikely' Tehran would not retaliate against crippling
sanctions.

However, he said he doubted it would carry out its threat to blockade the
Straits of Hormuz, one of the world's busiest shipping lanes, for fear of
creating a 'shooting war' with the U.S.

Instead, Professor Stevens claimed that blocking oil exports to America and the
EU would encourage hardliners inside the Islamic state to retaliate, adding:
'There could even be a Lockerbie-type response from within Iran.'

And he warned: 'History is littered with failed oil embargoes. The lessons of
history appear to have passed by the decision makers of the EU.' Iran exported
890,000 barrels a day to Europe in 2010

.

His report came as Iranian president Mahmoud Ahmadinejad warned Gulf nations
against co-operating with the West. The EU is expected to approve a ban on
Iranian oil imports next Monday after a UN watchdog concluded Iran appears to
have been designing a nuclear bomb.

LOAD-DATE: January 16, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Papers


                   Copyright 2012 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              38 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                       BBC Monitoring Trans Caucasus Unit
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                           January 18, 2012 Wednesday

Iran MP says CIA "coordinating point" for terror attacks

LENGTH: 136 words


An Iranian MP has said that the CIA has become a coordinating point for
terrorist attacks against Iran, Fars news agency reported on 18 January.

"The assassination of our nuclear scientists has become a strategy of the
enemies, and the CIA has become a coordinating point for terrorist attacks
against Iran," Fars news agency quoted the representative of West Eslamabad
Township in parliament, Heshmatollah Falahatpisheh, as saying.

He went on to say that however, several international courts have condemned Iran
for committing terrorist attacks and even ruled that Iran pay damages.

"We support victims of terrorism and provide them with an opportunity to defend
their rights in international courts," the news agency quoted Falahatpisheh as
saying.

Source: Fars News Agency website, Tehran, in Persian 0804 gmt 18 Jan 12

LOAD-DATE: January 18, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2012 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              39 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                       BBC Monitoring Trans Caucasus Unit
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                           January 18, 2012 Wednesday

MPs approve bill on defending rights of Iranians killed in terrorist attacks

LENGTH: 114 words


Iranian MPs have approved a bill that allows Iran to defend the rights of
Iranians killed in terrorist attacks through appealing to domestic and
international courts, Fars news agency reported on 17 January.

The parliament approved the first-urgency bill on the government's actions to
defend the rights of Iranians killed in terrorist attacks through appealing to
domestic and international courts at an open session on 18 January.

According to the bill, "the government's duty is to administer justice in cases
related to Iranians killed in terrorist attacks in domestic and international
courts", the report added.

Source: Fars News Agency website, Tehran, in Persian 0759 gmt 18 Jan 12

LOAD-DATE: January 18, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2012 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              40 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                    January 18, 2012 Wednesday 12:01 AM GMT

Sketch: the Tory backbencher obsessed with his own leader's death;
Michael Deacon watches Peter Bone MP return to his favourite subject: the
possibility of David Cameron being killed in a terrorist attack.

BYLINE: By Michael Deacon Parliamentary Sketchwriter

LENGTH: 559 words


Does Peter Bone know something the rest of us don't? On two successive days in
the chamber last month the Conservative member for Wellingborough asked who
would run the country if the Prime Minister were killed in a terrorist attack.
After he'd asked it the second time, Nick Clegg, the Deputy Prime Minister,
ticked him off for this "morbid fascination", but Mr Bone is not easily cowed.
Yesterday, at Foreign Affairs Questions, he asked what the Foreign Secretary's
role would be if, that's right, the Prime Minister were killed in a terrorist
attack.

William Hague                     , like almost everyone else in the chamber,
laughed - not, one trusts, at the idea of the Prime Minister being killed in a
terrorist attack, but at the tenacity with which Mr Bone keeps pursuing this
peculiar line of inquiry. Once the chamber had recomposed itself, Mr Hague
politely replied that plans were in place to respond to "any catastrophic
destabilising incident", but that it wouldn't be appropriate to discuss them in
public.

He added, puzzlingly, that he couldn't "guarantee that there will be a place in
the bunker for Mrs Bone", a joke that despite making little obvious sense won
him guffaws and even cheers from both sides of the chamber. Evidently the
chamber enjoys giggling at Mr Bone so much that it will seize any opportunity to
do so. This is cruel. The fact that Mr Bone looks like a sinister, or more
sinister, Sven-Goran Eriksson is no grounds to treat him as a joke figure or
pariah. The rest of us must hope that this bullying will not discourage Mr Bone
from coming forward with any information he may possess about a terrorist plot
to kill the Prime Minister. Asking three questions in the space of as many weeks
suggests that he must have heard something. He owes it to the nation to speak
up.

In general it was another authoritative performance from Mr Hague, who these
days appears so much more confident and assured, happier in his own skin, than
he did all those years ago as Leader of the Opposition. Today's Leader of the
Opposition can look at Mr Hague and take heart: being near-universally derided
by the public need be no bar to political success.

The main topics of the day were Iran (Mr Hague hopes to "extend sanctions on
Iran including an oil embargo on a phased basis") and Brazil, which Mr Hague
announced he's visiting this week - to mock-impressed cries of "Ooh!" from the
Labour benches, as if he'd just won a beach holiday on a game show.

Jo Swinson (Lib Dem, East Dunbartonshire) asked how Britain's relationship with
Brazil will change now that Brazil has overtaken us as the world's sixth largest
economy. This sounded like a subtle way of suggesting that from now on, instead
of Britain continuing to send aid to Brazil, Brazil should start sending aid to
Britain. But, proud patriots that they are, Mr Hague and his ministers did not
interpret it as such.

Yvonne Fovargue (Lab, Makerfield) wanted to know whether Mr Hague had asked
Colombia's president to guarantee the protection of trade unionists. Many trade
unionists have been jailed, she said, because the Colombian authorities view
union activity as dangerous. The chamber was too tactful to point out that union
activity can indeed be dangerous, and that for corroboration she need only ask
her party leader.

LOAD-DATE: January 18, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTNS


                  Copyright 2012 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              41 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                       BBC Monitoring Trans Caucasus Unit
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                           January 19, 2012 Thursday

Iranian embassy denies involvement in terrorist attacks in Turkey

LENGTH: 159 words


The Iranian embassy in Ankara has issued a statement denying Iran's involvement
in any terrorist attacks in Turkey, Fars news agency reported on 19 January.

"It is clear that Zionists and interfering countries are not happy with the good
relations between the two brotherly countries - Iran and Turkey, and in order to
destroy their good relations, they will not hesitate to use any tricks," it
said.

"It is pleasing that both sides' officials are totally aware of these tricks.
Constant mutual consultations and high-level private meetings between the two
countries in recent weeks are indicative of extensive cooperation between them,"
the statement said.

Touching on Iran's policy, the statement said that "the Islamic Republic's
policy is based on non-interference in the internal affairs of other countries
and Iran has always tried to establish peace and stability in the region".

Source: Fars News Agency website, Tehran, in Persian 1120 gmt 19 Jan 12

LOAD-DATE: January 19, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2012 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              42 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                       BBC Monitoring Trans Caucasus Unit
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                           January 19, 2012 Thursday

Terror attack thwarted in Azeri capital - agency

LENGTH: 58 words


The Azerbaijani National Security Ministry has thwarted a terrorist attack that
was planned to be carried out in Baku, APA reported on 19 January, referring to
the ministry.

According to the report, details of the terror attack attempt will be revealed
on the state TV channel in a few hours.

Source: APA news agency, Baku, in Azeri 1318 gmt 19 Jan 12

LOAD-DATE: January 19, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2012 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              43 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring Middle East - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                           January 19, 2012 Thursday

Lebanese mufti says terror attacks "creation" of foreign intelligence agencies

LENGTH: 1071 words


Text of report in English by privately-owned Lebanese newspaper The Daily Star
website on 19 January; subheadings inserted editorially

["Mufti: Intelligence Bodies Behind Terror" - The Daily Star Headline]

Beirut: Shaykh Muhammad Rashid Qabbani rejects the widespread linkage of Islam
to extremism, holding that militant Muslim organizations blamed for terrorist
attacks in the world are the creation of foreign countries' intelligence
agencies.

In an interview with The Daily Star, the Grand Mufti of the Republic also blamed
the Future Movement of former Prime Minister Saad Hariri [Sa'd al-Hariri] for
strained ties with Dar al-Fatwa, the seat of the Sunni mufti, saying Future MPs
are still boycotting him.

Asked for his assessment of extremist Muslim groups blamed for terror attacks
around the world, Qabbani told The Daily Star Tuesday: "Any assessment of Islam
that is distant from its substance and its content, which are based on mercy and
openness towards others, is a mistaken assessment that does not reflect the
spirit of Islam and its reality. Therefore, there is no such thing as extremist
Islam.

"The foreigners' portrayal of Islam in the guise of extremism is aimed at
distorting the image of Islam and Muslims and also at making Muslims abhor their
religion. It is also aimed at creating a hypothetical opponent of the West that
can be used as a gateway to attack and tamper with the East," he said.

Qabbani stressed that the rulings, teachings and practices of Islam show it to
be a religion of "forgiveness, love, cooperation, centrism and openness that
calls for respecting others [non-Muslims] and living with them in peace,
prohibits killing, and punishes the killer even if he is a Muslim."

Referring to militant Muslim groups blamed for terror attacks in the world, the
mufti said: "This continuing extremism adopted by misled groups or fictitious
organizations are all the work of foreign intelligence agencies and leading
powers, which seek to strike Islam in its own countries and tarnish its image in
various parts of the planet so that they can tamper with our countries'
security, control our economic systems and launch wars with a view to fully
achieving their aims.

"But the killing continues falsely in the name of Islam," Qabbani said, adding
that crimes committed falsely in the name of religion are an attack on the
Muslim faith.

Christians in Levant

Qabbani voiced understanding towards fears voiced by Christians about their
presence in the Middle East, especially amid a wave of popular upheavals in the
Arab world that has led to election victories by Islamist groups in countries
such as Egypt and Tunisia. He said Muslims were keen on the freedom of Christian
sects in the region.

"The Christians in this Levant are an indivisible part of the social fabric in
it. They are not aliens, but citizens bound with their Muslim brothers by an
identity of fully belonging to this Levant," Qabbani said.

"Muslims are keen on the dignity and freedom of Christian sects in this Levant.
This keenness on the part of Muslims is not a gift, but a duty dictated on us by
our creed and belief," the mufti said, adding: "But at the same time we show
understanding towards fears felt today by Arab minorities, particularly
Christians, because there are invisible parties that seek to spread panic in the
Arab world in order to undermine the unity of Arab peoples and set the stage for
foreign intervention on the pretext of protecting minorities."

Domestic scene

As for the domestic scene, Qabbani said Future MPs are still boycotting him,
blaming the Future Movement for the rift between the two sides.

"We maintain good relations with everyone in Lebanon. There is no dispute
between us and any of the political parties in Lebanon. But sometimes some
[politicians] may interpret our position or openness as directed against him.
Thus, he put his political team and loyalists in a state of dispute with the
mufti of the republic and Dar al-Fatwa," the mufti said.

Qabbani added that this had happened in the past with March 8 parties, followed
by the current situation with the Future Movement.

"There is no problem between us and the Future Movement. They [Future Movement]
sparked a hypothetical dispute with us and mobilized [people]. They boycotted Id
al-Fitr prayers with the mufti of the republic, in an unprecedented act, not
even carried out by any of renegades in the history of Islam and Muslims,"
Qabbani said.

"They boycotted the visit of the mufti of the republic to the villages of Arqoub
in the south on Lebanon's border with occupied Palestine. They are today
boycotting Dar al-Fatwa and the mufti of the Republic," he added.

Qabbani called on the Future Movement to reconsider its stance on "the mufti of
the republic, who does not change his national stands an inch."

At the root of the rift between the Future Movement and Dar al-Fatwa was
Qabbani's meeting last year with a Hezbollah delegation on the day the UN-backed
Special Tribunal for Lebanon issued its indictment accusing four party members
of involvement in the 2005 assassination of former Prime Minister Rafiq Hariri.
The Future Movement was also reported to have been irked by Qabbani's meeting
with the Syrian Ambassador to Lebanon Ali Abd-al-Karim Ali.

The Future Movement's relations with Hezbollah have been strained since Saad
Hariri's Cabinet was toppled by the Hezbollah-led March 8 alliance in January
last year.

Qabbani said the aim of last week's visit to Lebanon by Turkish Foreign Minister
Ahmet Davutoglu, who met with the country's top political and spiritual leaders,
including the mufti, was to show "Turkey's keenness to see safety and stability
in Lebanon amid the current conditions in the Middle East, since Turkey has a
major role in regional politics."

The mufti rejected labelling as refugees the more than 5,000 Syrians who have
fled to border areas in north Lebanon as a result of the violence in Syria.
Qabbani also rejected a proposal to establish camps for Syrian refugees in
Lebanon.

"Those [Syrians] are not refugees. They are brothers who were forced to leave
their houses in tense areas fearing for themselves and for their wives and sons
to safer areas inside our Lebanese border. Therefore, we must treat them as our
relatives and guests, not as strangers," Qabbani said. "We must pay attention to
their social, health and humanitarian conditions."

Source: The Daily Star website, Beirut, in English 19 Jan 12

LOAD-DATE: January 19, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2012 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              44 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                         The Evening Standard (London)

                           January 19, 2012 Thursday

MARINES JOIN POLICE FOR DRY RUN OF THAMES TERROR ATTACK DURING OLYMPICS

BYLINE: Geoff Teather, Justin Davenport

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 465 words


POLICE and Royal Marines today staged a huge training exercise to defend the
Olympics from a Thames terror attack.

Security teams practised foiling an armed assault using the river - amid fears
it is the weakest link in the mammoth operation to protect London.

One possible scenario was a Mumbai-style attack by heavily armed gunmen using
fast boats to storm the city.

Police said today's manoeuvres on the river at Woolwich were to ensure everyone
had the "same level of knowledge about how the river operates and how our
tactics work together".

A detachment of 94 Marines will be based on amphibious assault ship HMS Ocean,
moored at Greenwich for the duration of the Games.

The unit is equipped with rigid inflatables and offshore raiding craft which can
travel at up to 39 knots and be mounted with heavy machineguns. They are also
supported by landing craft and a Lynx helicopter.

Assistant Commissioner Chris Allison, who is in charge of policing security at
the Olympics, said: "We are using specialist military support so that in the
unlikely event we come across something that is beyond our capability we have
their support to assist us.

"This exercise is not in response to any specific threat but is part of our
planning to bolster our operation.

"One possibility is a boat, going fast,  with terrorists firing. The military
have the tactics to deal with that."

Police forces in London, Kent and Essex are engaged in the operation along the
river from central London to the estuary.

Mr Allison added: "The chances of this happening are highly unlikely but we
would be failing in our duty if we did not consider every possibility.

"This will be a summer like no other. The Thames runs through the very heart of
our capital and will be a popular place for people taking part in the Olympic
spirit. This is to ensure events take place safely and securely."

About 44 marine police officers in rigid inflatables and fast response boats
will be joined by the detachment of Royal Marines. The exercise is one of a
series of "live" security rehearsals planned in the coming months.

The RAF will be carrying out its first training exercise over London this
Saturday. Two Typhoon jets from RAF Coningsby will carry out training sorties to
practise defending the air space during the Games.

The flights will be conducted in the evening to avoid peak periods of civilian
air traffic. The MoD added that "in order to minimise noise disturbance,
afterburners will not be used."

The Typhoon jets and HMS Ocean, the largest ship in the Royal Navy's fleet, will
eventually be deployed to protect the London 2012 Games with up to 13,500
military personnel.

The Government has stressed that operations in Afghanistan and elsewhere would
not be affected by the security plan costing hundreds of millions of pounds.

LOAD-DATE: January 19, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                    Copyright 2012 Evening Standard Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              45 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                                Scottish Express

                           January 19, 2012 Thursday
                                   Edition 1;
                                    Scotland

Hawk attack terror as woman walks dog

BYLINE: Stephen Wilkie

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 30

LENGTH: 244 words


A PET poodle suffered a serious eye injury and had part of his tongue ripped off
in an attack by a domesticated bird of prey.

The hawk swooped on terrified Buddy as his owner, Ethne Brown, walked him in a
park. Mrs Brown, who was celebrating her 57th birthday on the day of the ordeal,
said the bird made several strikes.

Residents of the area, Broomridge in Stirling, who also keep birds, eventually
managed to subdue and capture the hawk.

The bird's owner, believed to live in Alloa, has apologised, paid Buddy's vet's
bills, and sent flowers to Mrs Brown.

However, she said: "I'm sure people must be concerned that these birds can be
kept as pets and hunt in areas where there are people. The bird was used to
being handled and had no fear of me. There are lots of elderly people who might
have died if they had to experience something terrible like this.

"That's not to mention the danger to young children and babies, many of whom
wear wee fluffy hats, which could make them look like a rabbit to a bird of
prey. Owning these birds is as bad as having a dangerous dog, if not worse, as
birds come out of the sky silently. They could fly into a garden and attack
small children or pets."

Mrs Brown's husband, Ian, said: "The bird attacked Buddy but then came back to
attack Ethne another three times. She was holding Buddy to try and stop him
getting hurt but the bird kept coming back for more."

Central Scotland Police described the incident as "extremely distressing".

LOAD-DATE: January 20, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Ethne Brown with her dog Buddy, target of an attack by a hawk

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DXPscot


                       Copyright 2012 Express Newspapers
                              All Rights Reserved

                              46 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                   The Mirror

                            January 20, 2012 Friday
                                 3 Star Edition

SWIMMER IN SHARK TERROR;
ATTACK

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 35

LENGTH: 53 words


A SWIMMER was attacked by a shark off the coast of Australia yesterday - the
second victim in two days.

The man, 26, was bitten on the arm by the 10ft tiger shark in Coral Bay, 700
miles north of Perth. His injuries were not life threatening.

It comes after a surfer had his leg mauled in New South Wales. He is in
hospital.

LOAD-DATE: January 20, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                            Copyright 2012 MGN Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              47 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                      January 20, 2012 Friday 4:24 PM GMT

Dissident Republican Brian Shivers guilty in Real IRA Massereene barracks
shooting;
A dissident Republican has been found guilty of the murder of two soldiers in
Northern Ireland in a terrorist attack that shattered the relative peace of
Northern Ireland.

BYLINE: By Duncan Gardham Security Correspondent

LENGTH: 860 words


Brian Shivers, 46, from Magherafelt, Co Londonderry, faces life in jail for the
shooting of the two soldiers in March 2009 and the attempted murder of six
others.

Colin Duffy, 43, a prominent dissident Republican from Lurgan, Co Armagh, who
has been arrested in a string of previous cases connected to the IRA, was
acquitted despite evidence that his DNA was found in the getaway car.

DNA testing - fiercely contested by the defence - linked Duffy to the tip of a
latex glove found in the abandoned getaway car and Shivers to a matchstick and
mobile phone.

Judge Anthony Hart, who was sitting without a jury, told the court that he was
satisfied that Duffy's DNA was found on the glove fragment and on a seat buckle
but he said the prosecution had failed to link the defendant to the murder plot.

He said: "I consider that there is insufficient evidence to satisfy me beyond
reasonable doubt that whatever Duffy may have done when he wore the latex glove,
or touched the seatbelt buckle, meant that he was preparing the car in some way
for this murderous attack. And I therefore find him not guilty."

Sappers Patrick Azimkar, 21, from London, and Mark Quinsey, 23, from Birmingham
were killed outside the Massereene barracks in Antrim, and two soldiers and two
pizza deliverymen were injured. Two guards escaped unhurt

The soldiers were wearing desert fatigues and were to be deployed to Afghanistan
the next day. The Real IRA claimed responsibility.

The shooting took place at around 9.40pm on March 7 2009, when four off-duty
soldiers from 38 Engineer Regiment went to collect pizzas at the gates of the
barracks near Antrim.

As they paid for the take-aways, two gunmen stepped out of green Vauxhall
Cavalier parked in a side street and opened fire.

The shootings were the first British military fatalities in Northern Ireland
since Lance Bombardier Stephen Restorick was shot dead by a sniper in South
Armagh in February 1997.

Two days after the Massereene shooting, PC Stephen Carroll was shot dead in
Craigavon, County Armagh as he answered and emergency call. It was the first
killing of a police officer in Northern Ireland since 1998.

Duffy, then aged 22, was shot as he reported to a police station in Lurgan to
sign-in as part of bail conditions on charges of possession of ammunition in
1990.

He and two others had been followed by a red Maestro car, later revealed to be a
military intelligence vehicle.

Three years later Duffy was convicted for the murder of former soldier John
Lyness, 57, in Lurgan.

But the prosecution case hinged on the testimony of anonymous witnesses who was
subsequently jailed in Scotland for his part in a loyalist gun-running plot,
leading to the conviction being quashed.

In June 1997, Constable John Graham and Reserve Constable David Johnston on foot
patrol in the centre of Lurgan were shot dead by the IRA.

Duffy was arrested by police who claimed a witness linked him to the killing but
the case collapsed after other witnesses came forward in defence of Duffy.

Duffy, now 43, did not give evidence in his defence at the Massereene trial but
his wife Martine told the court that her husband had been playing the Xbox at
home with some of his four children the night of the killing. She said they had
been recovering after attending a wedding the evening before.

"I think it is absolutely terrible what happened," she told the court. "I think
they should be caught. It is awful that my husband is being accused of it."

Duffy's barrister, Mr MacDonald, said the prosecution had been unable to
"ascribe any role to Mr Duffy" while Shivers' barrister, Patrick O'Connor QC,
described his client as a "highly unlikely terrorist."

However Terence Mooney QC, prosecuting, said there was "no innocent explanation"
for the presence of the men's DNA in the getaway car.

He said Shivers had been unable to give an alibi and the "absence of an
explanation being given by Duffy is attributed to him having no answer that
would stand up to cross-examination."

In the build up to the attacks there had been three separate attempts to kill
members of the Police Service of Northern Ireland (PSNI) leaving the officers
with serious injuries.

But the Massereene attack provoked unique condemnation from both sides of the
political divide for the first time in the history of the province.

Deputy First Minister Martin McGuinness said: "I was a member of the IRA, but
that war is over now. The people responsible for last night's incident are
clearly signalling that they want to resume or restart that war. Well, I deny
their right to do that."

Sinn Féin President Gerry Adams said those responsible had "no support, no
strategy to achieve a United Ireland. Their intention is to bring British
soldiers back onto the streets. "They want to destroy the progress of recent
times and to plunge Ireland back into conflict. Irish republicans and democrats
have a duty to oppose this and to defend the peace process."

The barracks were shut down in 2010 as part of a further reduced presence of the
British Army in Northern Ireland.

Two bombs went off in central Londonderry on Thursday evening after coded
warning allowed the city to be cleared.

LOAD-DATE: January 20, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTNS


                  Copyright 2012 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              48 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring South Asia - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                           January 21, 2012 Saturday

Pakistan security officials warn of possible terror attack in northwest

LENGTH: 209 words


Text of report by staff correspondent headlined "Suicide bomber on the prowl in
Mardan" published by Pakistan newspaper The News website on 21 January

Peshawar: Security officials have said that though one suicide bomber had blown
himself up at a checkpoint in Nowshera district on Thursday [19 January], there
was one more around and had managed to reach Mardan where he could carry out an
attack any time.

Four policemen and two civilians were injured in the suicide bombing in Akora
Khattak in Nowshera on Thursday. Wishing anonymity, an official said both the
suicide bombers had spent some time at the well-known Darul Uloom-e-Haqqania
seminary at Akora Khattak. "There was prior information that two suicide bombers
were hiding in the Haqqania Madrassa [Islamic seminary] and will carry out
attacks anywhere," a security official said.

He said on Thursday, one of them identified as Janat Gul alias Qari Basit, came
out of the Haqqania Madrassa and was on way to Peshawar for carrying out an
attack. "He was travelling in a passenger coach and when stopped by the police,
he came out of the vehicle and blew himself up, causing injuries to six people,"
the official said while requesting anonymity.

Source: The News website, Islamabad, in English 21 Jan 12

LOAD-DATE: January 21, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2012 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              49 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                          The Guardian - Final Edition

                           January 21, 2012 Saturday

National: Fears of new militant offensive after blasts and gunfire rock Nigerian
city: Bombs hit police stations and immigration office: Radical group blamed for
growing terror attacks

BYLINE: David Smith, Johannesburg

SECTION: GUARDIAN HOME PAGES; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 603 words


Explosions and gunfire rocked the biggest city in Nigeria's mainly Muslim north
after Friday prayers in what appeared to be an intensified offensive by Islamist
militants.

Eyewitnesses yesterday described panic and pandemonium on the streets of Kano as
residents ran for cover and plumes of smoke rose into the sky.

One explosion ripped through the city's police headquarters soon after 5pm,
causing an unknown number of casualties. Police kept reporters away from the
building, which had its roof torn off and windows blown out.

Witnesses said a bomber had pulled up to the building on a motorbike before
getting off and running at it, holding a bag. "We tried to stop him, but he ran
in forcefully with his bag," said a policeman at the scene. "All of a sudden
there was a blast. You can see for yourself the building is damaged."

An Associated Press reporter said the explosion had been powerful enough to
shake his car, which was several miles away.

Two other police stations and an immigration office in Kano, Nigeria's
second-biggest city, were also hit, according to a BBC report. The explosions
were followed by the sound of gunshots.

Officials could not be immediately reached for comment to say what had caused
the blast or whether there had been any injuries. A spokesman for the Nigeria
immigration service in the capital, Abuja, said officials in Kano had told him
the blast shook their nearby office and was caused by a bomb.

Secondhand accounts quickly emerged on Twitter. Alkasim Abdulkadir, whose
profile describes him as a freelance journalist, tweeted: "Got off the phone
with a journo in Kano, as he was racing to safety, a bomb exploded in the area
he was heading to."

Jeremy Weate, who blogs about Nigeria, posted: "My friend in Kano reports: 'It's
bloody serious. The city is closed down with shooting now going on in all parts
of Kano.'"

The chaos erupted as Nigeria faces a growing threat from the radical Boko Haram
Islamist sect. It has carried out increasingly sophisticated and bloody attacks
in a campaign to implement strict sharia law across Nigeria, a nation of more
than 160 million people, roughly equally split between Muslims and Christians.

Boko Haram, whose name means "western education is forbidden/sinful" in the
local Hausa language, has been responsible for at least 510 killings last year
alone, according to the Associated Press.

So far this year the group - which has warned it will kill Christians living in
Nigeria's north - has been blamed for at least 76 deaths, further inflaming
religious and ethnic tensions in Nigeria.

Boko Haram also claimed responsibility for a suicide car bombing that targeted
the UN headquarters in the capital last August, killing 25 people and wounding
more than 100.

In a video released last week Imam Abubakar Shekau, a Boko Haram leader, said
the government could not handle attacks by the group.

Although the Nigerian president, Goodluck Jonathan - a Christian from southern
Nigeria - has declared emergency rule in some regions, Boko Haram is blamed for
almost daily attacks.

Jonathan has said he believes the sect has infiltrated security agencies and
government offices in the country, but has offered no evidence to back up the
claim.

Earlier this week Kabir Sokoto, thought to have masterminded an attack on a
Nigerian church that killed 37 people on Christmas Day, escaped from police
custody, still wearing handcuffs, less than a day after being arrested.

76

Number of deaths that Boko Haram has been blamed for this year alone. In 2011 it
killed more than 500 people

Captions:

Radical Islamist Shekau claims the government cannot control the attacks

LOAD-DATE: January 21, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2012 Guardian Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              50 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                  Guardian.com

                           January 21, 2012 Saturday

Scores killed in terrorist attacks in Nigeria

BYLINE: David Battyguardian.co.uk

LENGTH: 521 words

ABSTRACT

At least 120 people killed in northern city of Kano as terror group Boko Haram
says it carried out series of bombings

FULL TEXT

At least 120 people have been killed in a series of bombings and attacks by
Islamist militants in the northern Nigerian city of Kano.

Soldiers and police officers are out in force in the city in Nigeria's Muslim
north, where gunfire is still ringing out in some quarters.

The Islamist group Boko Haram, which has been blamed for hundreds of deaths in
recent months, has claimed responsibility for the attacks.

A mortuary attendant at Murtala Muhammed hospital, the largest in Kano, said
they had 126 bodies of people who died in the attacks, which began at 5pm on
Friday afternoon after Muslim prayers. AP reported that there were soldiers and
police officers among the dead.Nwakpa O Nwakpa, a spokesman for the Nigerian Red
Cross, said officials were continuing to collect corpses scattered around sites
of the attacks. "From what they are saying, there are many involved, either
wounded or dead," Nwakpa said.

A survey of two hospitals by the Red Cross said at least 50 people were injured
in Friday's attack, he added.In a statement issued late on Friday, federal
police spokesman Olusola Amore said attackers targeted five police buildings,
two immigration offices and the local headquarters of the State Security
Service, Nigeria's secret police.

"The police have commenced investigation and therefore use this medium to call
for calm among the residents of Kano as police are doing their best to bring the
situation under control," Amore said.

Police are "appealing to members of the public to come forward with information
on the identity and location of these hoodlums. Information given will be
treated with utmost confidentiality."

A massive blast caused when a suicide bomber who drove a car full of explosives
into a regional police headquarters shook cars miles away. Inmates at the
regional police headquarters fled amid gunfire, witnesses said.

State authorities declared a 24-hour curfew late on Friday as residents hid
inside their homes amid the fighting.

A Boko Haram spokesman, using the nom de guerre Abul-Qaqa, claimed
responsibility for the attacks, which he said were retaliation at the state
government refusing to release members of the Islamist terrorist group.

Boko Haram, which seeks to implement strict Sharia law across Nigeria, is
responsible for at least 510 killings last year, according to the Associated
Press. The group has been blamed for at least 76 killings this year, the news
agency added.

The targets of Boko Haram, whose name means "estern education is sacrilege" in
the local Hausa language, have included both Muslims and Christians. Bit the
militants have promised to kill any Christians living in Nigeria's predominantly
Muslim north.

The group previously claimed responsibility for a suicide car bombing in August
that targeted the UN headquarters in the capital, Abuja, killing 25 people and
wounding more than 100. The sect killed at least 42 people during a series of
attacks on Christmas Day, which included the bombing of a Catholic church
outside Abuja.

LOAD-DATE: January 23, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2012 Guardian Unlimited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              51 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                          Huddersfield Daily Examiner

                           January 21, 2012 Saturday
                                  1ST Edition

THREE JAILED FOR 'TERROR' ATTACK;
Break-in traumatised victim

BYLINE: EMMA DAVISON

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 299 words


A TERRIFIED householder attempted to hold a kitchen door shut as two intruders
tried to force their way into her home, a court heard yesterday.

Tracey Liburd shut the door on cousins Thomas and Lionel Patrice when they
turned up at her house in Deighton, looking for her nephew Dino who had come
round for Sunday dinner.

Prosecutor Camille Moorland told Bradford Crown Court that there was some kind
of grievance between the men and Dino Liburd ran upstairs into the bathroom.

Miss Moorland said the complainant described kneeling down against the locked
kitchen door and holding it shut as it was being kicked in.

Eventually the lock gave way and the cousins, who had armed themselves with
knives from the kitchen, ran through the lounge and upstairs.

A third man Jonathan Hunte then came into the property and told the complainant
to sit down and shut up when she tried to follow the duo upstairs.

The complainant could hear banging and shouts upstairs, but the men eventually
left the house.

As they left the Patrice cousins vandalised Mr Liburd's Vauxhall Corsa which was
parked outside.

Miss Moorland said the complainant was terrified by the incident and left in a
state of shock.

The three men all pleaded guilty to a charge of affray arising out of the
incident last July.

At the time of the offence both 26-year-old Thomas Patrice, of no fixed abode,
and Hunte, 29, of Leopold Grove, Leeds, were on licence from five-year prison
terms for firearms offences.

The court heard they had been recalled to continue serving those sentences
following the incident at the house last summer.

Yesterday Thomas Patrice was sentenced to 18 months in jail, his 24-year-old
cousin Lionel, of Wheatley Lane, Halifax, was locked up for 15 months and Hunte
received a 12-month prison sentence.

LOAD-DATE: January 21, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:  ¦ SENT DOWN: Thomas Patrice jailed for 18 months

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: hx


                           Copyright 2012 MGN Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              52 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                     January 21, 2012 Saturday 5:50 PM GMT

Terror attacks in Kano, Nigeria, kill at least 162;
Bomb attacks targeting security forces and gun battles have killed at least 162
people in Nigeria's second-largest city of Kano, sources say.

LENGTH: 921 words


The death toll following coordinated bomb attacks and gun battles in the
Nigerian city of Kano has risen to at least 162, a source at the city's main
morgue has said.

A curfew was imposed on Kano in Nigeria 's mainly Muslim north after it exploded
into violence on Friday evening, with eight police and immigration offices or
residences targeted.

The main newspaper in the north said that a purported spokesman for Islamist
group Boko Haram had claimed responsibility for the violence, saying it was in
response to authorities' refusal to release its members from custody.

Scores of such attacks in Nigeria's north have been blamed on Boko Haram, though
Friday's would be among the group's most audacious and well-coordinated
assaults.

Some 20 huge blasts could be heard in the city as a suicide bomber struck a
regional police office and a car bomb rocked state police headquarters after the
attacker fled and was shot dead, police sources said.

A number of other police posts were targeted, including a secret police
building, as well as immigration offices.

Gunfire shook a number of areas, and a local television journalist was among
those shot dead as he covered the unrest.

"We have been receiving dead bodies since last night from relief agencies
involved in the evacuation of bodies," an official at the city's main morgue
said on condition of anonymity because he was not authorised to give out
figures.

"At this moment we have 162 bodies in the morgue, and this figure may change
because bodies are still being brought," he added.

A source with the Red Cross said his agency alone had counted 121 dead.

An AFP correspondent counted at least 80 bodies in the main morgue, many of them
with gunshot wounds, and said there were piles of other corpses he was unable to
count.

Around 100 people waited outside the morgue to collect their relatives' remains.

Residents also reported bodies in the streets, as officials from the Red Cross
and the National Emergency Management Agency worked to pick up the corpses.

"Between my house and the police headquarters along this street, I have counted
16 dead bodies that litter the streets, six of them policemen," Naziru Muhammad,
who lives near state police headquarters, said Saturday morning by phone.

A police source on condition of anonymity said dozens were killed.

"There are heavy casualties around the police headquarters," the source said. "A
lot of civilians have been shot by the attackers. It's difficult to give a death
toll, but the number of the dead runs into dozens."

Details began to emerge of the attacks, which were said to involve at least two
suicide bombers.

At state police headquarters, a would-be suicide bomber sought to join a police
commissioner's convoy, the police source said, but jumped out of the car and
tried to escape when officers opened fire.

The source said he was shot dead, but according to a resident, the car rolled
over and a huge explosion followed.

The attacks in Kano, which had escaped the worst of the violence blamed on Boko
Haram in recent months, sent residents fleeing in fear of what would come next.

President Goodluck Jonathan declared a state of emergency on December 31 in
parts of four states hard hit by attacks attributed to Boko Haram, but Kano was
not included.

Most of the recent major attacks have taken place in the country's northeast.

The state of emergency has not stopped attacks, and the areas targeted have
spread beyond the locations covered by the decree.

Nigeria, Africa's most populous nation and largest oil producer, is roughly
divided between a mainly Muslim north and predominantly Christian south.

The limitations of the authorities were recently highlighted when the alleged
mastermind of a Christmas Day attack outside a church that killed 44 people
escaped police custody in suspicious circumstances.

Attacks specifically targeting Christians have also given rise to fears of a
wider religious conflict in the country, with Christian leaders warning they
would defend themselves. Some have even evoked the possibility of civil war.

However, attacks blamed on Boko Haram have included a wide range of targets,
including Muslims.

The group also claimed responsibility for the August suicide bombing of United
Nations headquarters in the capital Abuja that killed 25 people.

Britain, Germany and France have denounced the deadly bomb attacks.

British Foreign Secretary William Hague said in a statement: "I am shocked and
appalled by the large-scale terrorist attacks in Kano, Nigeria.

"The full horror of last night's events is still unfolding, but we know that a
great many people have died and many more have been injured.

"The nature of these attacks has sickened people around the world and I send my
deepest condolences and sympathies to the families of those killed and to those
injured."

Germany's top diplomat Guido Westerwelle "strongly condemned the latest attacks
(claimed) by the Boko Haram group in the north of Nigeria," a statement said.

"The bloody attacks against Christians and the public administration (in the
region) was a major threat to peace in the multi-ethnic state of Nigeria," a
foreign ministry spokesman said.

France said in a statement it wanted to "assure the Nigerian authorities of its
solidarity in the difficult battle that they are leading against terrorism."

Hague added: "There is no place in today's world for such barbaric acts....
These events underline the importance of the international community standing
together in the face of terrorism in all its forms."

LOAD-DATE: January 21, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTNS


                  Copyright 2012 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              53 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                               UK Government News

                     January 21, 2012 Saturday 1:39 PM  EST

FOREIGN SECRETARY CONDEMNS TERRORIST ATTACKS IN NIGERIA

LENGTH: 170 words


LONDON, Jan. 21 -- The United Kingdom Foreign & Commonwealth Office issued the
following press release:

Foreign Secretary William Hague appalled by large scale terrorist attacks in
Kano.

The Foreign Secretary, William Hague, said:

"I am shocked and appalled by the large scale terrorist attacks in Kano, Nigeria
yesterday. The full horror of last night's events is still unfolding, but we
know that a great many people have died and many more have been injured. The
nature of these attacks has sickened people around the world and I send my
deepest condolences and sympathies to the families of those killed and to those
injured.

"There is no place in today's world for such barbaric acts and I condemn in the
strongest possible terms those who carried them out. These events underline the
importance of the international community standing together in the face of
terrorism in all its forms." For any query with respect to this article or any
other content requirement, please contact Editor at
htsyndication@hindustantimes.com

LOAD-DATE: January 23, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newswire


                        Copyright 2012 HT Media Limited.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              54 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring Middle East - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                            January 22, 2012 Sunday

"Terrorist group" attacks car in Syrian city of Idlib killing 14 prisoners

LENGTH: 163 words


Text of report in English by state-run Syrian news agency SANA website

["14 Killed, 26 Injured by Attacks of Armed Terrorist Group in Idleb..2
Law-Enforcement Members Martyr..." - SANA Headline]

Idleb: An armed terrorist group on Saturday [21 January] attacked a car for the
law-enforcement forces that was transporting prisoners between Ariha and Idleb
[Idlib], at al-Mastouma area, killing 14 prisoners and wounding 26 others.

The terrorist attack also led to the martyrdom of Ahmad Moussa Jum'a and Abdul
Qader Mohammed Jaber from the law-enforcement members and the injury of 6 others
accompanying the prisoners' car, some seriously.

An official source told SANA reporter that the armed group attacked the car with
explosives on two stages causing this large number of deaths and injuries.

The reporter added that the armed group also hit the ambulances which came to
offer aid to the wounded persons.

Mazen / Ghossoun

Source: SANA news agency website, Damascus in English 22 Jan 12

LOAD-DATE: January 22, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2012 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              55 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                            Manchester Evening News

                            January 23, 2012 Monday

Terror suspect is killed in USdrone attack

BYLINE: WFnode

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 322 words


A MANCHESTER man hunted by police over links with al-Qaida has died in a US
drone attack in Pakistan.

Aslam Awan was one of four men killed in a missile strike near the Afghanistan
border.

American intelligence officials say Awan, formerly of Cheetham Hill, was an
influential al-Qaida operative involved in planning attacks in the West. He was
wanted after a terrorist cell operating in Manchester was exposed in 2006.

Pakistan-born Awan aged in his late 20s moved to Britain in 2002 on a student
visa, telling his family he had enrolled at Manchester University. But he is
thought to have fled the country in 2006, shortly before cops arrested Rangzieb
Ahmed and Awan's housemate Abdul Rahman.

Ahmed was convicted of directing terrorism and jailed for 10 years, while Rahman
was sentenced to six years for allegedly acting as a recruiting sergeant' to
bring militants to Pakistan for combat training.

During their 2008 trial, the jury heard Awan was part of the terror cell and had
tried to recruit fighters, sending a letter back from the Afghanistan frontline
urging others to join forces with the Taliban.

Little was known about the fugitive's whereabouts until the American-operated
drone struck at a house in northern Waziristan on January 10.

US military have now named Awan as one of the casualties, describing him as a
senior operations planner' for al-Qaida.

But family members have denied Awan's involvement in terrorism. His father
Khushal Khan, 75, moved to Britain in the 1970s to work in banking, later
returning to his home town of Abbottabad. He said: I don't believe this is true
my son was not indulging in these things. It can't be correct.

The police raid on the Cheetham Hill house in 2007 found a letter in Rahman's
bedroom from Awan. It contained instructions for the distribution of martyrdom
CDs featuring the dead al-Qaeda fighters plus a description of Awan's
participation in fighting and his terrorist training.

LOAD-DATE: February 1, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2012 Manchester Evening News
                              All Rights Reserved

                              56 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                            Manchester Evening News

                            January 23, 2012 Monday

Terror suspect is killed in USdrone attack

BYLINE: WFnode

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 322 words


A MANCHESTER man hunted by police over links with al-Qaida has died in a US
drone attack in Pakistan.

Aslam Awan was one of four men killed in a missile strike near the Afghanistan
border.

American intelligence officials say Awan, formerly of Cheetham Hill, was an
influential al-Qaida operative involved in planning attacks in the West. He was
wanted after a terrorist cell operating in Manchester was exposed in 2006.

Pakistan-born Awan aged in his late 20s moved to Britain in 2002 on a student
visa, telling his family he had enrolled at Manchester University. But he is
thought to have fled the country in 2006, shortly before cops arrested Rangzieb
Ahmed and Awan's housemate Abdul Rahman.

Ahmed was convicted of directing terrorism and jailed for 10 years, while Rahman
was sentenced to six years for allegedly acting as a recruiting sergeant' to
bring militants to Pakistan for combat training.

During their 2008 trial, the jury heard Awan was part of the terror cell and had
tried to recruit fighters, sending a letter back from the Afghanistan frontline
urging others to join forces with the Taliban.

Little was known about the fugitive's whereabouts until the American-operated
drone struck at a house in northern Waziristan on January 10.

US military have now named Awan as one of the casualties, describing him as a
senior operations planner' for al-Qaida.

But family members have denied Awan's involvement in terrorism. His father
Khushal Khan, 75, moved to Britain in the 1970s to work in banking, later
returning to his home town of Abbottabad. He said: I don't believe this is true
my son was not indulging in these things. It can't be correct.

The police raid on the Cheetham Hill house in 2007 found a letter in Rahman's
bedroom from Awan. It contained instructions for the distribution of martyrdom
CDs featuring the dead al-Qaeda fighters plus a description of Awan's
participation in fighting and his terrorist training.

LOAD-DATE: February 15, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2012 Manchester Evening News
                              All Rights Reserved

                              57 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                      January 23, 2012 Monday 10:33 AM GMT

India bans Pakistan from access to Mumbai gunman;
A Pakistani commission investigating the 2008 terror attack in Mumbai will visit
in early February, but will not be allowed to interrogate the lone surviving
gunman, Ajmal Kasab, Indian officials said Monday.

LENGTH: 311 words


The visit is the result of intricate negotiations between the nuclear-armed
neighbours, but is unlikely to resolve tensions over whether Pakistan is
sincerely working to prosecute the attack's perpetrators - who India says are
linked to Pakistani security forces.

Disagreements over access to Kasab, who has been sentenced to death in India for
his role in the rampage that killed 166, have spilled into public view.

Pakistan's interior minister, Rehman Malik, told India's NDTV last week that
Pakistani officials would like to speak with Kasab directly to verify his
confession.

"It can be verified either by bringing Ajmal Kasab to Pakistan or the judicial
commission goes and personally interviews the witnesses, including Ajmal Kasab,"
he said. "That's what we have requested."

Ira Joshi, a spokeswoman for India's Ministry of Home Affairs, said Monday that
such access was not part of the memorandum of understanding governing the visit.

In his confession before the court - which he later tried to retract - Kasab
described in detail a network of training camps and safe houses across Pakistan,
revealing the names of four men he said were his handlers.

India has accused Pakistani intelligence of being intricately involved in the
planning of the attack, and officials have complained that Pakistan is not
acting vigorously enough to bring the masterminds to justice.

Pakistan bristles at that criticism, noting that seven suspects in the Mumbai
attack have been put on trial.

The Pakistani delegation will visit Mumbai in the first week of February and
speak to doctors who did the post-mortems on the nine gunmen killed during the
attack, as well as to the magistrate who recorded Kasab's confession and the
chief investigating officer of the attacks, an official at Mumbai's high court
said on condition of anonymity because of the confidential nature of the visit.

LOAD-DATE: January 23, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTNS


                  Copyright 2012 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              58 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                       BBC Monitoring Trans Caucasus Unit
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                            January 24, 2012 Tuesday

Chechen police say killed rebel suspect planned "major" terror attack

LENGTH: 201 words


Police in Chechnya have said that a rebel suspect was killed in mountain
Urus-Martanovskiy District on 22 January who was planning to carry out a "major
terrorist attack", Russian Kavkazskiy Uzel website reported on 24 January.

Police have not yet established the identity of the man, killed in the village
of Goy-Chu, however, they believe he was planning a major terrorist attack, an
unnamed Chechen police officer told Kavkazskiy Uzel. A powerful improvised
explosive device was found during a search of the scene of the operation, the
officer said.

A Kalashnikov rifle, ammunition, an explosive device, a Stechkin automatic
pistol with two magazines and military equipment were found on the killed man,
the website said. It quoted police as saying that as a rule, only rebel
commanders carry Stechkin pistols.

In a separate report on 24 January, Kavkazskiy Uzel said that a suspected rebel
accomplice was detained in Chechnya's Nozhay-Yurtovskiy District on 23 January.
The 26-year-old local resident confessed to supplying foodstuffs to members of a
rebel group operating in the district in 2005, the website quoted the Chechen
police as saying.

Source: Kavkaz-uzel.ru website, Moscow, in Russian 24 Jan 12

LOAD-DATE: January 24, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2012 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              59 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                               Leicester Mercury

                            January 24, 2012 Tuesday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

Teen tells of attack by stranger in street;
TERROR: VICTIM LEFT AFRAID TO GO OUT ON HER OWN

BYLINE: CIARAN FAGAN

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 347 words


A teenager has told how a complete stranger punched her in the face and kicked
her repeatedly as she lay terrified on the ground.

Kristina Leatherland, 18, said the random attack had left her too afraid to go
out on her own.

Kristina was in Bishop Street on her way to her sister's home, in the city
centre, when a man barged into her.

He then punched her in the face, knocking her to the ground and continued to
punch and kick her.

Members of the public chased the man away.

Kristina said: "He was shouting at me but I couldn't tell what he was saying
because I was screaming for help.

"I have no idea why he did this to me. He was a complete stranger.

"I can't go out on my own anymore.

It's taken my confidence away." Kristina, who is studying at South
Leicestershire College, South Wigston, said: "I was meant to be a bridesmaid on
Saturday but I just couldn't do it.

"Everyone understood why, but it felt horrible not being there.

"I just want the man who did this to me to be caught because he is dangerous."

Kristina's family, who live in Eyres Monsell, are supporting her as she recovers
from the attack, which happened at 7.40pm on Sunday, January 15.

Her mum, Maria Clarke, 40, said: "Kristina has not been able to sleep since it
happened and she's afraid to go out on her own. "He didn't ask her for money or
her phone, he just barged into her and started punching and kicking her.

"She had a black eye, a swollen nose and a thick lip and after a couple of days
the bruises started coming out on the back of her head.

"I want the man who did this to her to be caught. If his friends or family know
what he has done, they must not cover for him.

"It was a completely random attack and he may do it to someone else."

Police believe the man got into a taxi in nearby Horsefair Street after he
managed to get away from the people who were chasing him.

The attacker is white, approximately 40 years old, 6ft and stocky.

Pc James Highton said: "This was a nasty attack which has understandably left
Kristina extremely shocked and distressed." Anyone with information should call
Pc Highton on 101.

LOAD-DATE: January 24, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: LEM


                        Copyright 2012 Leicester Mercury
                              All Rights Reserved

                              60 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                       BBC Monitoring Europe - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                           January 25, 2012 Wednesday

Turkish Foreign Ministry condemns terrorist attacks in Nigeria

LENGTH: 106 words


Text of report in English by Turkish semi-official news agency Anatolia

ANKARA (A.A) -January 24, 2012 -Turkey strongly condemned the terrorist attacks
in Nigeria.

Releasing a statement on Tuesday, Turkish Foreign Ministry expressed sorrow over
death of nearly 200 people in recent terrorist attacks in the north of Nigeria.

We strongly condemn such attacks which aim to deteriorate political and social
stability of Nigeria, said the ministry.

The ministry expressed belief that Nigerian people would overcome terrorism by
displaying unity and integrity in such painful days.

Source: Anatolia news agency, Ankara, in English 1411 gmt 24 Jan 12

LOAD-DATE: January 25, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2012 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              61 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring Middle East - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                           January 26, 2012 Thursday

Qatar to share information about eight men charged with Bahraini terror attacks

LENGTH: 563 words


Text of report in English by Bahrain newspaper Gulf Daily News website on 26
January

[Report by Noor Zahra: "Qatar To Help Terror Probe"]

Qatar will be asked to share details of an investigation that led to eight men
being charged with planning a series of terrorist attacks in Bahrain.

Five of the suspects appeared in Bahrain's High Criminal Court yesterday amid
tight security.

However, the trial was adjourned until 2 February after defence lawyers asked to
see the Qatari investigation files.

The eight Bahrainis have been accused of being members of an Iran-backed
terrorist cell planning attacks on targets in Bahrain, including the King Fahad
Causeway, Saudi Embassy and Interior Ministry.

Shi'i Bahrainis were allegedly recruited for sabotage training in Iran and
prosecutors claim they were seeking to overthrow the government, suspend the
Constitution and encroach on individual freedoms and rights.

The court yesterday rejected a request to transfer the case to the Judicial
Supreme Council, after defence lawyers accused the main judge of not being
impartial -since he is a member of the Ruling Family.

However, the request was thrown out after an exchange in court -during which the
judge said his name had no influence on his handling of the case.

"I will treat this case like any other case," he said.

"If they are proved innocent with no evidence convicting them, they will be
acquitted.

"If they are proven guilty, they will be convicted."

He dismissed a suggestion by lawyer Muhsin Al Alawi that he could be
"embarrassed".

"I don't feel embarrassed," he responded. "Therefore, I will handle this case."

Meanwhile, a request by lawyer Muhammad Al Jishi for the court to accept his
client's medical report was accepted. He said it showed his client suffered from
heart problems and needed to be released from custody to receive treatment.

A request by defence lawyer Reem Khalaf, who asked for her client to be seen by
a medical examiner because of a head wound that required surgery, was also
accepted. She said he suffered the birdshot injury last year.

One of the men, a 30-year-old, is believed to be one of the ringleaders of the
alleged cell.

The two other masterminds, Abd-al-Rawf Al Shayib and Ali Mushaima, are still on
run and are believed to be in the UK.

They allegedly financed a third suspect, who is also at large, to receive
weapons training from Iran's Revolutionary Guards, according to court documents.

It is suspected he received BD3,000 from Iran's Basij militia group to support
the cell, according to case files.

Two of the defendants, aged 27 and 25, are accused of sneaking into Saudi Arabia
and then heading to Qatar where they met two other suspects.

All four were then arrested by Qatari authorities at the border, allegedly on
their way to Iran to receive training in explosives and firearms.

They were handed over to Bahraini authorities on 4 November and the fifth
suspect was later arrested in Bahrain.

Qatari security authorities are said to have recovered documents and a laptop
from the four suspects containing sensitive information as well as airline
bookings to Syria.

The 27-year-old and 25-year-old suspects confessed to leaving the country
illegally at a previous hearing, but denied the other charges.

Judges adjourned the case to inform the three suspects still at large to attend.

Source: Gulf Daily News website, Manama, in English 26 Jan 12

LOAD-DATE: January 26, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2012 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              62 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                       BBC Monitoring Trans Caucasus Unit
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                           January 26, 2012 Thursday

Israeli president thanks Azerbaijan for thwarting terror attacks

LENGTH: 154 words


Israeli President Shimon Peres has thanked his Azerbaijani counterpart Ilham
Aliyev for the thwarting of a terrorist attack against Israeli public figures in
Baku, private APA news agency reported on 26 January.

Peres met Aliyev on the sidelines of the Davos economic forum and thanked him
for saving the lives of Israeli nationals, the report said.

"In response, the Azerbaijani president noted that Azerbaijan has proven that it
is capable of defending itself and its citizens irrespective of their ethnic and
religious affiliation. The Azerbaijani president said that cooperation with
Israel will continue in all fields, including in the security field," APA said.

BBCM note: On 19 January, the Azerbaijani National Security Ministry said it had
arrested a group that had been plotting to kill Israeli nationals in Baku and
was linked to the Iranian secret services.

Source: APA news agency, Baku, in Azeri 0702 gmt 26 Jan 12

LOAD-DATE: January 26, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2012 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              63 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                                  Daily Record

                           January 26, 2012, Thursday

RANGERS STAR KYLE'S STONE ATTACK TERROR;
STRIKER TELLS TRIAL OF SECTARIAN TORMENT

BYLINE: Keith McLeod

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 294 words


RANGERS star Kyle Lafferty told yesterday of a horror attack which shattered his
car window while his pregnant girlfriend was inside.

A stone hit the rear windscreen of his new Jeep as former Miss Scotland Nicola
Mimnagh, 24, was in the front passenger seat, a court heard.

Lafferty, 24, was giving evidence against Reice Harrison, 16, who is accused of
assaulting him at a supermarket filling station.

The Northern Irish striker claimed in the witness box he is subjected to
sectarian abuse almost every day.

Lafferty told how he and Nicola had been followed by three youths around
Morrisons in Johnstone, Renfrewshire.

When the couple returned to the Jeep, Lafferty said, they were waiting outside
and one called him an "Orange c**t" and a "p***k".

Lafferty ignored them and drove Nicola to the filling station nearby.

But he claimed the youths ran after them and, when he got out of the Jeep, he
heard a "loud thump" as a stone smashed the rear window.

He recognised Harrison as the one who hurled abuse and believed he was the only
one close enough to have thrown the missile.

Lafferty and Nicola went to a police station to report what had happened.

Lafferty told Paisley Sheriff Court rival fans would often goad him in public.

He said: "I don't want people shouting things like 'Orange c**t' at me.

"Especially when there are other people around, as it can be embarrassing.

"I just don't think it is acceptable. But you have to ignore them."

He said he had been "gutted" when the window was smashed as he'd had the Jeep
for just two weeks.

Harrison, of Paisley, is charged with either assaulting Lafferty or throwing a
stone which damaged the vehicle in November.

He also denies shouting and swearing, uttering sectarian remarks and breach of
the peace.

The trial was adjourned.

LOAD-DATE: January 26, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: ABUSED J Kyle was with model Nicola at supermarket filling station

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


            Copyright 2012 Scottish Daily Record & Sunday Mail Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              64 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                            Manchester Evening News

                           January 26, 2012 Thursday

Screwdriver attack terror

BYLINE: WFnode

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 79 words


SWINTON A man was attacked with a screwdriver as he walked home from a night
out.

The 29-year-old was assaulted by the hooded youth after he refused to hand over
£5 cash.

He escaped serious injuries because

the tool did not pierce

his thick coat, and the offender fled empty-handed.

The attack happened on Queensway in Swinton at about 11.45pm on Saturday night.

The attacker is white, about 16 years old, and slim. He was wearing a dark
hooded top, dark trousers and white trainers.

LOAD-DATE: February 1, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2012 Manchester Evening News
                              All Rights Reserved

                              65 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                              Scunthorpe Telegraph

                                January 26, 2012
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

Mac recalls the tragedy of the terror attacks;
PICK OF THE WEEK

SECTION: FEATURES; Pg. 55

LENGTH: 390 words


TV executives really know how to flog an idea - if a format for a programme
works well and proves popular, you can bet you're going to see it time and time
again.That's why there's a glut of talent shows doing the rounds, and why a few
years back we were subjected to endless property makeover programmes and
docusoaps.

But dramas aren't immune to this notion; the original Law & Order ran for 20
years from 1990, and spawned four offshoots in the US - one of which, Special
Victims Unit, is still running - plus various international versions, including
one in the UK. Spin-offs from CSI: Crime Scene Investigation haven't been quite
so prolific, but Miami appeared in 2002, two years after the original show
began, with NewYork joining them a couple of years after that, CSI:NY (Channel
5, 9.30pm).When it first began, Gary Sinise and Melina Kanakaredes headed the
cast as Det Mac Taylor and his second-in-command Det Stella Bonasera.

However, Kanakaredes left at the end of season six, with her character's
departure explained by Bonasera accepting a job as chief of a crime lab in New
Orleans. Who knows? Maybe she'll return, heading a CSI series of her own one
day... Sela Ward joined the cast as Mac's new sidekick, Det Jo Danville, at the
beginning of season 7, and is now well into her stride. She's a DNA evidence
specialist, whose working relationship with Mac is developing nicely. Ward is a
TV veteran, having appeared in the likes of House, Frasier and Sisters.

Nevertheless, she was glad to land the CSI:NY gig: "I am thrilled to be working
with Gary and this terrific group of people, she said at the time. I''m a huge
fan." Sinise, meanwhile, wasn't known for his small screen work; instead, he was
primarily famous for playing Lt Dan in Forrest Gump. However, he's taken to TV
like a duck to water, and we can't imagine anybody else portraying Mac. He and
Ward are back for a new run, with an emotionallycharged opening episode that
marks the 10th anniversary of the September 11 attacks. Mac is on leave and
working at Piper Laboratories, which is still trying to identify the DNA of the
remains of victims of 9/11 to help the relatives of those victims find closure.
He lost his wife on that day, and a shaving cut reminds him of how events worked
out.The supporting cast includes Anna Belknap alongside AJ Buckley and Hill
Harper.

LOAD-DATE: January 26, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Looking back The team members recall September 11, 2001.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: SCU


                      Copyright 2012 Scunthorpe Telegraph
                              All Rights Reserved

                              66 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                               The Sun (England)

                           January 26, 2012 Thursday
                                   Edition 1;
                                    Ireland

U.S. BIN LADEN TEAM FREE PIRATE CAPTIVES;
Seals kill nine terrorists in surprise Somalia attack

BYLINE: NICK PARKER

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 487 words


SEALs US Navy Seals who shot dead Osama Bin Laden rescued two hostages and
killed nine kidnappers in Somalia yesterday. The daring night raid saw the elite
troops dropped from at least six helicopters - before they sneaked up to launch
a surprise attack on the fortified compound.

A gunfight broke out as the dazed pirate gang tried to defend the remote camp -
but the crack commandos shot dead ALL nine.

Terrified US aid worker Jessica Buchanan, 32, and Danish colleague Poul Thisted,
60, were unharmed.

The pair were whisked to safety by the Seals, who suffered no casualties.

Last night President Barack Obama praised the bravery of the legendary Seal Team
Six - the unit sent to kill Bin Laden last May in Abbottabad, Pakistan.

After telephoning Jessica's family to tell them of the rescue, Obama said: "I
could not be prouder of the troops who carried out this mission."

Earlier, he made a subtle mention before his State of the Union address in
Washington. Turning to Defence Secretary Leon Panetta, he said: "Leon, good job
tonight."

It is believed the Seals waited until the kidnappers were asleep after chewing
drug "qat" for much of the evening near the central Somali town Adado.

Last night the US Africa Command confirmed "all nine captors were killed".

Gunmen seized the two aid workers last October in the war-torn country.

Other kidnap victims of the pirate gangs include Brit tourist Judith Tebbutt,
56.

She was bundled into a speedboat by a gang who shot dead her husband David, 58,
at a beach resort in Kenya last September.

The mum of one was last seen "kicking and screaming" as the thugs brought her
ashore in a southern Somali port. Obama, who had been updated regularly about
the kidnapping by his top defence staff, gave the green light on Monday for the
op.

US Vice President Joe Biden told Yank telly: "Jessica's health was failing.

They concluded they should go at this time. The president gave the go."

Buchanan and Thisted were employed by the Danish Refugee Council Demining Group.

They had been seized by gunmen in the semi-autonomous Galmudug region.

Reports said they were being treated last night in Djibouti, where the US has
its only base in Africa.

The operation showed "the United States will not tolerate the abduction of our
people, and will spare no effort to secure the safety of our citizens,"
President Obama said in a statement.

The commando raid on Somali soil is one of the first to have been officially
acknowledged by the US.

America admits to flying surveillance drones but rarely comments on reported
missile strikes against al-Qaeda-linked militants there.

The Horn of Africa nation has been without an effective government since it was
plunged into a civil war two decades ago. Memories are also still raw in the
United States of shocking scenes in 1993 when two Black Hawk choppers were shot
down and the bodies of 18 soldiers dragged through Mogadishu's streets.

irishsun@the-sun.ie

Screaming

LOAD-DATE: January 26, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Saved . . Poul & Jessica
Bin Laden ... killed by Seals

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: SUN


                    Copyright 2012 NEWS GROUP NEWSPAPERS LTD
                              All Rights Reserved

                              67 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                      January 27, 2012 Friday 12:16 PM GMT

Pakistan's military academy attacked near Bin Laden house;
Terrorists launched a pre-dawn raid on Pakistan's military officer academy on
Friday, only 500 yards from the site where Osama bin Laden was found and killed
last year

BYLINE: By Rob Crilly in Islamabad

LENGTH: 250 words


The attack damaged a wall of the training centre but no-one was hurt, according
to local officials and police.

Imtiaz Hussain Shah, a local government official, said police had launched an
investigation but it was unclear who was behind the rocket attack "Nine rockets
were fired in total," he said. "Three hit the boundary wall of the academy while
six fell on open ground." The attack came hours after a visit by Pakistan's most
senior army officer to Abbottabad.

General Ashfaq Kayani, the Chief of Army Staff, met senior officers from
Pakistan's Frontier Force Regiment on Thursday.

The town was founded by the British colonial administration in the
mid-nineteenth century and had a reputation as a quiet weekend getaway for
residents of the capital Islamabad, about 30 miles away.

That changed last year when US special forces flew in under cover of darkness to
kill the al-Qaeda leader, who had been living in a villa there for as long as
five years with several of his wives and children.

The raid, in the early hours of May 2, was desperately embarrassing for
Pakistan's much-admired military.

Not only had they failed to detect the American helicopters as they flew in from
Afghanistan, but it turned out that bin Laden had been "hiding in plain sight",
living in a military cantonment town close to the officer training facility
rather than in a remote bolt-hold in the lawless tribal areas.

Pakistan has said it intends to destroy the house where he lived to prevent it
becoming shrine to extremists.

LOAD-DATE: January 27, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTNS


                  Copyright 2012 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              68 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring Middle East - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                            January 30, 2012 Monday

Israel holds drill simulating terror attacks at airport

LENGTH: 339 words


[Nir Dvori's report over video]

Correspondent Nir Dvori's video report shows scenes from a drill held at
Ben-Gurion Airport "a few days ago," simulating various scenarios of terrorist
attacks at the airport.

[Announcer] There is growing concern in the defence establishment that
terrorists would attempt to stage an attack at Ben-Gurion Airport [BGA]. As a
result, a drill simulating various scenarios was held there a few days ago. Nir
Dvori has the story.

[Dvori] A suicide bomber blows himself up at BGA's entrance. He is followed by a
terrorist cell that tries to penetrate the airport. The security personnel's
response will determine the outcome of the event.

The terrorists are simulated by men in red shirts. The security guards have to
identify and swiftly neutralize them.

This scenario was drilled by the Airports Authority last week. This is the entry
gate to Israel, and an attack here would damage Israel's image which, we are
told, must not happen. There are threats and warnings, and attempts were made in
the past.

This was not the only scenario drilled here. Another one was of terrorists
infiltrating the airport aboard a truck and trying to take hostages.

These days, the takeoff and landing strips are being rebuilt as those could
provide another venue for an infiltration. There is also the possibility of a
heavy tractor trying to crash into a full airplane taxiing down the strip.

The BGA security unit employs hundreds of guards. The police and the Shin Bet
also participated in the drill. They are now preparing for the arrival of many
hundreds of pro-Palestinian activists expected to land ahead of Passover to
stage acts of provocation and possibly disturbances as part of Israel's
delegitimization, which is promoted by left-wing organizations around the world.
Such an event could create dangerous complications. The Airports Authority is
getting ready; no one knows when something could happen. Scenes like these are
an important part of deterrence.

Source: Channel 2 TV, Jerusalem, in Hebrew 1800 gmt 29 Jan 12

LOAD-DATE: January 30, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2012 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              69 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                   Metro (UK)

                            January 30, 2012 Monday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

Ten years of terror at Guantanamo Bay;
As the Guantanamo Bay detention centre passes its tenth anniversary, GRAEME
GREEN investigates what the future holds for the controversial facility, which
continues to hold one Briton and was set up in the wake of the 9/11 terrorist
attacks...

BYLINE: GRAEME GREEN

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 12,13

LENGTH: 727 words


I HAVE said repeatedly that I intend to close Guantanamo and I will follow
through on that,' said Barack Obama before coming to power.

It seemed the US president would take a break from the policies of the previous
Bush administration. But the recent passing of the centre's ten-year anniversary
was marked with protests by human rights activists, angry that Mr Obama's
promise has failed to materialise.

Guantanamo Bay detention centre is at a US naval base in Cuba and received its
first inmates in January 2002.

It was established after the September 11 attacks to deal with prisoners from
Afghanistan, Iraq and elsewhere in the so-called 'war on terror'.

Over the next ten years, reports of illegal detention without trial or due
process and prisoners being subjected to abuse, sleep deprivation, long periods
of solitary confinement and water-boarding made Guantanamo synonymous with the
same kinds of human rights abuses America was claiming to fight against.

Mr Obama recognised this, promising to close the detention centre within his
first year in office as 'part and parcel of an effort to regain America's moral
stature in the world'. But, as we all know, that never happened.

'Obama was naïve in thinking he could persuade others to his sensible point of
view,' says Clive Stafford-Smith, director/founder of Reprieve, the legal
organisation representing many of Guantanamo's prisoners.

'By setting up a committee rather than taking action, he allowed Republicans to
turn the issue into a political football.

'Democrats have now backed legislation that makes it very difficult to release
any detainees, let alone close the prison.'

SOME suggest Mr Obama does not want to force the issue, and this has not been
helped by a lack of international pressure to close the centre.

Another questions is where the prisoners would go. Nowhere in the US would have
them and, because of the inmates' reputation as terror suspects, no other
countries will want to take responsibility for them.

Of nearly 800 men who have passed through Guantanamo, 171 remain. Eighty-nine of
these - including British inmate Shaker Aamer (see box above) - have been
cleared for release but have nowhere to go.

Many US politicians argue that Guantanamo provided intelligence that justi-fied
its existence but, without concrete examples being disclosed to the public,
that's impossible to know.

However, opponents say the end doesn't justify the means; that torture and human
rights abuses are not an emergency measure but something to be unequivocally
ruled out.

Experts might agree torture provides unreliable information, and many say it's
impossible to oppose human rights abuses around the world then champion
democracy, like the US does. 'The legacy of Guantanamo is wholly negative for
everyone,' says Mr Stafford-Smith. 'The prisoners have suffered and the American
reputation has suffered.

'It has been a recruiting sergeant for extremism. In 2004, a CIA agent said
that, for each of the 779 prisoners, we'd inspired ten people to want to do us
harm.

'I suspect that's now 100 or more - and most of the people in Guantanamo did not
wish us harm in the first place.

'It is one of a series of follies in the "war on terror" - a project that has
taken the group called al Qaeda, made it attractive to everyone with a gripe
against America and made it into something more dangerous, but not nearly as
dangerous as Western politicians would have us believe.'

White House officials argue that closing Guantanamo remains a priority for the
president. But, with the original promise broken and the issue in a political
quagmire, the day the gates close for good could still be a long way off.

Clive Stafford-Smith, director/founder of Reprieve, discusses the case of Shaker
Aamer...

'Shaker Aamer is the last recognised British resident in Guantanamo Bay. His
wife and children live in London.

'After being sold into US custody for a bounty in 2001, he was initially held in
Afghanistan but was rendered to Guantanamo the next year.

'He has never been charged with any crime and was cleared for release in 2007 by
the Bush administration.

'He has reportedly been cleared again by the Obama team but his transfer to
Britain has been prevented by political squabbling in the US.

'Recent reports indicate that Shaker, who is still held in isolation, is
seriously ill and receiving wholly inadequate medical care.'

LOAD-DATE: January 30, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: MTR


                   Copyright 2012 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              70 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                      January 30, 2012 Monday 6:51 PM GMT

Britons caught up in terror attacks abroad to be compensated;
Britons injured in terror attacks overseas will be eligible for compensation,
Justice Secretary Kenneth Clarke announced.

BYLINE: By Tom Whitehead Home Affairs Editor

LENGTH: 290 words


From April, victims of atrocities overseas dating back to 2002 will receive
ex-gratia payments.

It means those caught up in attacks such as the Bali bombings and outrages in
Mumbai, Turkey and Sharm el-Sheikh in Egypt will finally receive support.

The previous Government announced it was to close the loophole which currently
only allows people injured in domestic terrorist attacks to claim criminal
injuries compensation.

But that was in January 2010 just five months before the general election which
brought in the Coalition.

Labour last night criticised the Government for taking so long to honour a
decision that had cross party support at the time.

It is estimated around 300 Britons have been caught up in terror attacks
overseas since 2002.

Mr Clarke said: "I believe it is important that British victims of terrorist
attacks abroad should be able in future to qualify for compensation on a similar
basis to victims of domestic terrorism.

"From April we will make ex-gratia payments to victims of past incidents going
back to 2002 on the basis of the current CICS tariff, as the previous government
proposed."

Sadiq Khan, the shadow justice secretary, said: "After two years of waiting,
today is a victory for the dedicated campaigning by the innocent victims - and
the families - of those caught up in overseas terrorist atrocities.

"While no amount of compensation can erase the trauma of those who experienced
terrorist attacks such as those in Bali and Mumbai, the compensation will in
many cases make some contribution to the quality of life of the victims.

"It is a disgrace that it has taken so long for the Tory-led Government to
honour the cross-party agreement to compensate victims of overseas terrorism
agreed to back in 2010."

LOAD-DATE: January 30, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTNS


                  Copyright 2012 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              71 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring South Asia - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                            January 31, 2012 Tuesday

Pakistan's Peshawar police foil terror attack plot

LENGTH: 129 words


Text of unattributed report headlined "Car packed with arms seized in Peshawar"
published by Pakistani newspaper The News website on 30 January

Peshawar: The city police here on Sunday [29 January] foiled a bid of terrorism
by seizing a huge quantity of arms and ammunition during a successful raid on
Inqilab Road and arrested one accused on the spot. SHO [station house officer]
Chamkani police station Bashir Khan told APP [Associated Press of Pakistan] that
a suspected car coming from Dara Adam Khel in FR [frontier] Kohat was
intercepted on Inqilab Road and recovered huge quantity of arms and ammunitions.
The arms include guns, revolvers and rounds etc. Police arrested accused Taj and
started its investigation.

Source: The News website, Islamabad, in English 30 Jan 12

LOAD-DATE: January 31, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2012 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              72 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring Middle East - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                            January 31, 2012 Tuesday

Syrian soldiers killed, injured in "terrorist" attacks

LENGTH: 415 words


Text of report in English by state-run Syrian news agency SANA website

["Six Martyred, Six Others Injured by Explosive Device Targeting Bus Carrying
Military Personnel near ..." - SANA Headline]

Governorates, (SANA) - An armed terrorist group on Sunday [29 January] targeted
a bus carrying army personnel near Sahnaya, one of Damascus' suburbs, killing
six persons, including two officers, and injuring six others.

A military source informed SANA correspondent that the bus was targeted by an
explosive device planted by an armed terrorist group and remotely detonated.

The martyrs are:

- First Lieutenant Mahdi Mohammad al-Ahmad.

- First Lieutenant Ahmad Abdullah Ali al-Mohammad.

- Sergeants: Yousef Ibrahim, Jihad Ibrahim, Shadi Idris and Najeeb Hassan.

Sergeant Major Fares al-Omar, one of the officers injured in the explosion, told
the Syrian TV that he and his colleagues got on the bus at 7 am to go to their
regiment, and on the way the bus suddenly flew into the air and landed on the
ground, causing it to catch fire and shattering all windows.

"Afterwards, we came under heavy gunfire, martyring a number of our colleagues
and wounding others," he said.

In turn, Sergeant Major Samir Mohammad said they were in the bus and heading to
work when an explosive device went off around 100 meters before reaching the
regiment, with the explosion hurling him out of the bus.

Brigadier General, Law-enforcement Member Injured by Explosive Devices in Idleb
Countryside

A Brigadier General and a law-enforcement member were injured when two explosive
devices planted by terrorist groups went off on Balyon-Kamsafra road in Idleb
countryside.

An informed source told SANA that Brigadier General Sharif Kheirbek and
Conscript Monzer Jom'a Abdul-Rahman were injured in the terrorist bombing which
targeted their car. They were rushed to Lattakia Military Hospital.

The source added that an armed terrorist group broke into the
Telecommunications' Establishment in Idleb and stole 17 state cars from the
garage.

Agricultural Engineer Assassinated in Homs

An armed terrorist group assassinated on Sunday Amal Issa, an agricultural
engineer who works at Homs Agriculture Directorate.

An official source told SANA correspondent in Homs that the armed group targeted
the engineer when she was in her car with three of her colleagues near Khaled
Bin al-Walid Mosque. Issa was martyred by a shot in the head while her three
colleagues escaped unscathed.

Source: SANA news agency website, Damascus in English 31 Jan 12

LOAD-DATE: January 31, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2012 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              73 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring Middle East - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                            January 31, 2012 Tuesday

Armed "terrorist" group attacks Syrian gas pipeline

LENGTH: 782 words


Text of report in English by state-run Syrian news agency SANA website

["Armed Terrorist Group Blows up Gas Pipeline in Homs, Six Army Members Martyred
by Terrorists in Dara..." - SANA Headline]

Homs/Dar'a, (SANA) - An armed terrorist group at dawn Monday blew up a gas
pipeline extending from Homs to Banyas near al-Rabieh village in Tal Kalakh.

The attack caused a leak of about 460,000 cubic meter of gas.

An official source at the Ministry of Petroleum told SANA that the sabotaged
24-inch diameter pipeline, set ablaze and exploded by an explosive charge, is
affiliated to the Syrian Gas Company and feeds Banyas electricity generation
plant operating by gas.

The source said two electricity generation plants with a capacity of 260
megawatt/hour were stopped due to the explosion.

"No casualties were reported as pumping gas immediately stopped after the
explosion," the source added, stressing that the concerned authorities started
repair works in preparation for the resumption of pumping gas during a week.

Last Saturday, an armed terrorist group launched a sabotage attack against an
oil-pipeline passing nearby Al-Quriya City in Dayr al-Zawr Province.

The pipeline was set on fire and exploded by an explosive device causing the
loss of about 2000 barrels of oil. The armed terrorist groups have been
targeting pipelines of transferring oil, gas and oil derivatives by explosive
devices.

Earlier, an armed terrorist group targeted a diesel transfer pipeline extending
from Homs to Hamah and Idlib, exploding it with an explosive device between
Mousa al-Holeh and Talas villages, and the gas pipeline which transfers gas from
the central area near al-Rastan City and feeds Al-Zara and Al-Zaizun electricity
generation stations.

Six Army Members Martyred by Armed Terrorist Group Gunfire in Dar'a Countryside

Six army members, including a colonel, were martyred on Monday by the gunfire of
an armed terrorist group while they were in the line of duty.

The martyrs are:

- Colonel Haroon Sultan Sultan.

- Chief Warrant Officer Abdullah Khuder al-Khuder.

- Chief Warrant Officer Ibrahim Mohammed Ali.

- Sergeant Major Ayman Ali al-Ali.

- Sergeant Major Ma'rouf Ali Ma'rouf.

- Sergeant Ahmad Moussa Ibrahim.

SANA correspondent was informed that when the armed terrorist group attacked the
car carrying the military personnel, a clash occurred resulting in the killing
and the injury of a number of the terrorists.

Authorities Engage Terrorist Group in Dar'a, Kill and Wound Several Terrorists

The authorities in Dar'a engaged an armed terrorist group that attempted to
attack law-enforcement forces between the towns of Alma and Kherbet Ghazaleh in
Dar'a countryside.

An official source told SANA's correspondent that three terrorists were killed
and two were injured during the conflict, and that there were no injuries or
casualties among the authorities and law-enforcement forces.

Armed Terrorist Groups Assassinate Dr Mustafa Safar and Teacher Ruba Ibrahim

In the framework of targeting the Syrian medical, technical, and technological
expertise, another armed group assassinated Dr Mustafa Mohammed Safar.

SANA Correspondent was informed that an armed terrorist group opened fire at Dr
Safar, the employee at Bissan Hospital affiliated to the School Health
Department in Homs near the University Campus.

Another armed terrorist group assassinated Ruba Ibrahim, a teacher at the
National Centre for the Gifted in Homs.

An informed source told SANA's correspondent that the armed terrorist group
opened fire from machineguns at the teacher's car near Khaled bin al-Walid
Mosque in Homs city. She sustained a gunshot wound to the head, killing her
instantly.

Armed Terrorist Group Breaks in Sqat Municipality Building in Idleb

An armed terrorist group attacked Sqat Municipality Building in Ariha region,
Idlib governorate. A well-informed source told SANA correspondent that the
terrorist group broke the door, stole computers and damaged its content.

In the same context, authorities found the body of Conscript Mohammad Said
al-Durra bearing marks of torture and mutilation in Maaret al-Numan.

The source added that the Conscript was off duty when the armed terrorist group
targeted him.

Twelve terrorists killed, eight injured while preparing explosives at al-Rastan

Twelve terrorists were killed and 8 others injured while they were preparing
explosives at al-Rastan in Homs.

SANA reporter in Homs learned from an official source that the terrorist group
was preparing explosives to be used against law enforcement members and
terrifying civilians, and while they were doing that, the explosives went off
leading to the death of the majority of them.

Source: SANA news agency website, Damascus in English 31 Jan 12

LOAD-DATE: January 31, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2012 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              74 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring Middle East - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                           February 1, 2012 Wednesday

Syrian nuns recount ''terrorist attack'' on convent

LENGTH: 229 words


Text of report in English by state-run Syrian news agency SANA website

["Arab and Foreign Media Delegation Inspect Damages of Terrorist Attack against
Convent of the Lady of..." - SANA Headline]

Damascus Countryside, (SANA) - An media delegation including Arab and foreign
journalists on Tuesday [31 January] visited the archaeological Convent of the
Lady of Saydnaya in Damascus Countryside which was subjected to a terrorist
attack on Sunday afternoon and inspected the damages.

A number of nuns at the Convent recounted the details of the attack and said
that an armed terrorist group fired a shell that penetrated the Convent's wall
into one of its rooms but it didn't explode.

"The Divine Providence intervened to prevent an inevitable catastrophe as the
nuns were having launch with tens of orphans," they added. The nuns considered
that this act was aimed at sowing sedition among the Syrian people and
undermining the Syrian national unity.

"We heard an explosion and felt a huge quake so we hurried out to see what
happened. We saw smoke and dust coming out from one of the room's windows," said
head of the convent, Mother Verona al-Nabhan, expressing thanks to God that the
shell didn't explode.

Al-Nabhan added that "Syria is the icon of the East, which is why it shouldn't
be divided in the name of religion."

Source: SANA news agency website, Damascus in English 1 Feb 12

LOAD-DATE: February 1, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2012 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              75 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                            Evening Times (Glasgow)

                           February 1, 2012 Wednesday
                                   1 Edition

Sex attack terror for woman,32

BYLINE: By DEBORAH ANDERSON

SECTION: NWS; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 203 words


A WOMAN was  sexually assaulted by a masked man  in a lane in a terrifying early
morning attack.

The 32-year-old was walking between 12.15 and 1am on Sunday when she was
approached  by the man, who pushed her and then sexually  assaulted her.

The woman suffered a facial injury but did not need hospital treatment.

It happened near  Kilfinan Road in Shotts, Lanarkshire, close to  a social club
where  a party was being held.

Detective Constable Mark Cummings, of Bellshill Police Office, said:  The Bon
Accord Social Club was very busy because of a birthday party being held there
from Saturday night into the early hours of Sunday.

As this is just across the road from the lane where the assault took place, I
would urge anyone who attended the club who may have seen this crime take place,
or anyone matching the  attacker s description, to come forward to police.

The only description of the attacker is that he was white, about 5ft 10in and of
medium build. He was wearing  a dark jacket and blue jeans.

He was also wearing  a hat and had a scarf tied around his face.

Anyone with any  information should  call Bellshill police  office on 01698
202400  or Crimestoppers on 0800 555 111.

deborah.anderson@ eveningtimes.co.uk


LOAD-DATE: February 1, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: ET


                      Copyright 2012 Newsquest Media Group
                              All Rights Reserved

                              76 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                              The Plymouth Herald

                           February 1, 2012 Wednesday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

SCARRED FOR LIFE;
Trial told of horrific knife attack Injured man tells trial of his terror

BYLINE: GRAHAM BROACH

SECTION: NEWS; FRONT PAGE; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 420 words


A YOUNG man from Southway has described how he was scarred for life by his
friend in a horrific knife attack.

Jack Berry told the jury at Plymouth Crown Court he knew he was in trouble when
he saw Daniel Reader outside the front door of a house he was visiting, his hood
up and an open craft knife in his hand.

He said he jumped out of a bedroom window and fled, but was cornered by
Liverpudlian Mark Masher, another man, Paul Courtney and Reader in the porch of
a nearby house. There Reader repeatedly slashed his head, face and neck while
the others urged him on. "I felt a blow and thought he'd punched me in the
face," he said. "There was lots of blood and I felt a sharp pain to the neck and
a warm feeling instantly. "I was screaming and panicking. "Then I felt a blow to
the top of my head; I felt it dragging down really slow. "I was panicking at the
amount of blood. "I looked at the floor, seeing loads of blood and Daniel's
trainers going." Mr Berry was taken to Derriford Hospital, where his injuries
were stitched and stapled. They included an eight-inch cut from his right
eyebrow down through his lip, a twoinch cut under his right ear, an inch-long
cut to the right side of his forehead, a six-inch cut to the left side of his
head and a lateral cut through his left eyelid. He told the court that Astra
Widdicombe, aged 22, gave him the knife a week later, not realising he had been
the attack victim. He made up a story to explain his injuries and said he ¦ From
Page 1 would dispose of the weapon on behalf of Reader. He then handed the JCB
carpet- fitter's knife to the police. Mr Berry, 20, said he had been accused by
Reader, who was staying with him and his family at the time, of stealing £2,000.
He was innocent, but because he was afraid of being "stabbed up" agreed to work
as a collector of debts for Reader to pay the money back, the court heard. He
was then accused of stealing a further £5,000, and received numerous threats
from Reader and Masher. One text sent to him by Masher read: "I hope it was
worth it lad cos im nt guna stop til av ruind ur familys life an blinded u jus
watch rat". Daniel Reader, aged 18 and of Newcastle Gardens, Whitleigh, Dawn
Evans, aged 41 and of Tailyour Road, Crownhill, and Paul Courtney, aged 40 and
of Aylesbury Crescent, Whitleigh, all deny conspiring with Mark Masher to cause
Mr Berry grievous bodily harm on April 1 last year. Reader also denies wounding
Mr Berry with intent to do him grievous bodily harm and possession of a knife.
The trial continues.

LOAD-DATE: February 1, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: PLH


                       Copyright 2012 The Plymouth Herald
                              All Rights Reserved

                              77 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                      Coventry Evening Telegraph (England)

                           February 2, 2012 Thursday
                                Nuneaton Edition

Islamists admit terror attack plot;
InBrief

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 92  words


FOUR radical Islamists have admitted plotting a major pre-Christmas terror
attack on the London Stock Exchange.

The al Qaida-inspired fundamentalist group wanted to send five mail bombs to
various targets over the 2010 festive period and discussed launching a
"Mumbai-style" atrocity.

A hand-written target list found at one of the defendant's homes listed the
names and addresses of London Mayor Boris Johnson, two rabbis, the American
Embassy and the Stock Exchange.

The police counter-terror operation which led to their arrests was the biggest
of 2010.

LOAD-DATE: February 2, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2012 Coventry Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              78 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                            Manchester Evening News

                           February 2, 2012 Thursday

Boy home safe after savage dog attack terror

BYLINE: Pamela Welsh

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 429 words


Pamela Welsh and

Alice McKeegan

A BOY viciously attacked by a dog as he played in a park is back home with his
parents.

Mohammed Ali Kamal, just 10, had to endure hours of surgery to repair a huge
hole ripped in his leg by the Staffordshire Bull Terrier last week.

Now he is at home in Miles Platting, recovering from his horrific injuries.

The horror unfolded as the youngster's family and friends were just yards away
celebrating his sister Sofeya's first birthday at their Miles Platting home.

His parents, Irfan and Wendy Kamal, heard their son's screams and rushed outside
to help him.

But the dog which has been destroyed then lunged at Wendy, 36, repeatedly trying
to savage her legs.

The pair managed to fight the dog off before it was able to sink its teeth into
Wendy. Mohammed, known as Ali, was left in agony with a fist-sized lump of skin
and muscle torn from his leg.

He was taken to North Manchester General Hospital by ambulance and later
transferred to the Royal Manchester Children's Hospital because his wounds were
so severe.

The boy, a pupil at Park View Community School in Miles Platting, had a
three-and-a-half hour operation to clean up his wounds and had to undergo
further operations to repair the skin.

His devastated parents still do not know if he will ever fully recover and have
been warned that he could need plastic surgery to try to repair the damage.

Ali is a promising footballer for Delamere Rangers FC, a club associated with
Manchester City and had hopes of a career in the game but now his parents don't
know if he will play again.

Irfan said: The dog just came from nowhere and started biting Ali's legs. I
tried to push the dog away but then it turned on my wife.

Ali's legs were in a very bad condition and he was in so much pain.

The dog was very aggressive it wanted to attack anyone. It seemed to have a
taste for blood and tore a massive hole in his leg.

It was one of the worst things to see in my life. It was sickening but Ali was
so brave he could have been killed.

The attack happened as Ali played football with cousin Ben Boyd, nine, in a park
area opposite his home on Sealey Walk.

Ben managed to escape without any injuries but was left distraught by the
ordeal.

Mum Wendy added: I'm still in shock now it nearly took his leg off. To see your
son like that is horrible.

A police spokesman confirmed the incident, which happened at about 7.15pmÂ last
Thursday,Â and said it was being investigated.

It is understood that the dog had escaped from a nearby garden. The owner of the
dog refused to comment butÂ said the animal has been destroyed.

LOAD-DATE: February 15, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Ordeal Mohammed Ali Kamal

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2012 Manchester Evening News
                              All Rights Reserved

                              79 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring South Asia - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                            February 3, 2012 Friday

Pakistan's Peshawar police foil terror attack plot

LENGTH: 184 words


Text of report published by Pakistani newspaper The Express Tribune website on 3
February

Peshawar: The city police claimed to have foiled a terrorist bid and seized an
explosives-laden motorcycle from the limits of the Pishtakhara police station
late on Tuesday [31 January], officials said.

The area where the motorcycle was seized is close to the border of the Bara
tehsil [administrative division] of Khyber Agency, some 10 kilometres southwest
of the city. Senior Superintendent of Police (SSP) Tahir Ayub and SP
[superintendent of police] Cantonment Circle Dr Mian Saeed Ahmed told a press
conference that police defused the explosives, after taking the bike into
custody.

Ayub said that at a police check point near Achini village, police signalled a
motorcyclist to stop; however, he sped away, breaking the police cordon. A chase
then followed, which led to the capture of the abandoned bike, although the
driver managed to escape. The official pointed fingers towards Bara-based
militant outfit Lashkar-i-Islam for the botched attempt.

Source: Express Tribune website, Karachi, in English 03 Feb 12

LOAD-DATE: February 3, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2012 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              80 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                            The Independent (London)

                           February 4, 2012 Saturday
                                 First Edition

Chechen terror leader halts civilian attacks;
Doku Umarov orders his insurgents to cease fire in Russia during protests
against Putin's regime

BYLINE: SHAUN WALKER in Moscow

SECTION: WORLD; Pg. 34

LENGTH: 393 words


Russia's most-wanted terrorist, Doku Umarov, has called a halt to attacks on
civilians in Russia while anti-government protests continue.

His announcement came on the eve of another large-scale protest in Moscow,
planned for this afternoon.

Insurgents from the Caucasus have been behind some horrific attacks within
Russia over the past decade, including the Beslan school siege and numerous
suicide bomb attacks on the Moscow underground rail system.

After taking responsibility for a suicide attack on the arrivals hall of
Domodedovo Airport in the capital last January, Umarov, a Chechen insurgent
leader who styles himself the "Emir of the Caucasus", promised a "year of blood
and tears" for Russia.

But in yesterday's surprise announcement, he said his Caucasus Emirate movement
would cease all attacks on civilian targets. "If the peaceful population does
not take part in the war against Islam, our religion tells us to take care of
the peaceful population and not to touch them," Mr Umarov said in a video
message. He explicitly linked his decision to the protests, saying: "Today's
events ... show the population of Russia doesn't support Putin. Therefore, I
order all groups who are carrying out or plan to carry out special operations on
the territory of Russia to limit them if the peaceful population will suffer."

The insurgency in Russia's troubled southern provinces has changed in the past
decade from a largely secular Chechen nationalist cause to a movement with more
radical Islamist goals, but the main grievances behind most who join its ranks
are still the harsh methods used by Russian forces and their proxies in the
region. Mr Umarov said police and government officials would remain targets.

The war in the Caucasus is far from the minds of Russia's nascent middle class,
who have been the vanguard of the protest movement, and Mr Umarov's statement,
suggesting that the terrorists and protesters have similar goals, may even play
into the Kremlin's hands. Being linked with a rebel movement for which few
Russians have any sympathy will not be good for protest leaders.

The turnout at today's rally, the first since the long new year holidays, will
be a good indication of whether the movement that brought tens of thousands out
on the streets in December was a flash in the pan, or the start of a sustained
challenged to Vladimir Putin.

LOAD-DATE: February 3, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: IA


                      Copyright 2012 Independent Print Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                              81 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring Middle East - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                            February 6, 2012 Monday

Syrian TV says "armed terrorist groups" attack residents, blow up gas pipeline

LENGTH: 115 words


At 1010gmt, the state-run Syrian TV carried the following breaking news screen
caption: "Tens of terrorists in Ma'arrat al-Nu'man in Idlib storm houses, attack
their residents and steal their contents. Reports say there are victims in these
incidents."

The TV station also reported in another screen caption that "an armed terrorist
group attacks an army checkpoint in Al-Barah in Jabal al-Zawiyah, leaving three
officers dead during the gun battle, and some military personnel were also
kidnapped".

"Armed terrorist groups blow up a gas pipeline in northern Tiblisah," the Syrian
TV reported in a third screen caption.

Source: Syrian TV satellite service, Damascus, in Arabic 1010gmt 06 Feb 12

LOAD-DATE: February 6, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2012 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              82 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring Middle East - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                            February 6, 2012 Monday

Syrian rights group says ''terrorists'' behind attacks in Homs

LENGTH: 299 words


Text of report in English by state-run Syrian news agency SANA website

["SHRN Calls on Human Rights Organizations to Act Professionally and Live Up to
the Human Values They ..." - SANA Headline]

Damascus, (SANA) - The Syrian Human Rights Network (SHRN) on Sunday [5 February]
called on human rights organizations working in Syria and abroad to act
professionally and live up to the standards of the human values they should
uphold.

In a statement, the SHRN's fact-finding committee said that after monitoring the
situation in Homs, it reached the conclusion that all acts of terrorism taking
place in Homs are carried out by armed terrorist groups, including murder,
mutilation of bodies, attacks on hospitals, bombing oil pipelines and massacres,
and that these groups include foreign and Arab members.

The committee said that some of the terrorists confessed to receiving financial
support and weapons from abroad, in addition to working at the bidding of the
opposition in Istanbul, adding that these groups possesses sophisticated
weapons, some of which are made in Israel in neighbouring countries, in addition
to RPG launcher and shoulder-mounted missile launchers.

The SHRN affirmed that the massacre which took place on Saturday was committed
by armed terrorist groups that have been abducting military personnel and
civilians including women and children, murdering them and mutilating their
bodies, with the aim of accusing the army of these heinous acts.

The committee said that among the abducted people killed in this massacre by
terrorist was a young man named Ghassan Salameh who was kidnapped a few days
ago, in addition to a street vendor named Thaer al-Daher who was abducted around
a month ago in al-Qusour neighbourhood.

Source: SANA news agency website, Damascus in English 6 Feb 12

LOAD-DATE: February 6, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2012 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              83 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                       BBC Monitoring Trans Caucasus Unit
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                            February 6, 2012 Monday

Iran to review international conventions to prevent terrorist attacks

LENGTH: 220 words


Iran's foreign minister has said his country intends to review some
international conventions in order to prevent terrorist attacks in Iran, Mehr
reported on 6 February.

"We aim to revise these conventions in order to pursue the legal paths of the
assassination of our scientists more seriously and prevent similar actions
within the framework of international cooperation," Salehi said in an interview
to Mehr news agency.

"Through revising some international conventions, we will be able to launch
legal prosecution against those who commit such offensive and evil deeds in the
future," Salehi said.

Ali Akbar Salehi then touched on legal procedures carried out regarding the
assassination of Iranian nuclear scientist Ahmadi-Rowshan and said: "We have
sent out written complaints concerning the killing of our beloved citizen to all
international organizations, including the International Atomic Energy Agency
(IAEA), UN, and the Organization of the Islamic Conference [Organization of
Islamic Cooperation]," Mehr quoted Salehi as saying.

Salehi also stressed that the Iranian authorities were following up the
assassination of Ahmadi-Rowshan. He added: "However, we need to take more
serious measures, and these measures should originate from new conventions."

Source: Mehr news agency, Tehran, in Persian 1127 gmt 6 Feb 12

LOAD-DATE: February 6, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2012 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              84 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                      February 6, 2012 Monday 4:49 PM GMT

Cancer rates triple among New York police officers who responded to 9/11;
Cancer rates among police officers who responded to the 9/11 terrorist attacks
on New York have tripled, according to new figures.

BYLINE: By Rosa Prince New York

LENGTH: 354 words


Of the 12,000 who attended the scene of the atrocity at the World Trade Center
10 years ago, 297 have been diagnosed with cancer, almost triple the incidence
before the attack.

A report said that 56 who have been diagnosed had since died.

Residents of lower Manhattan have long claimed that the dust and ash clouds
triggered by the long-burning fires at the site of the twin towers were toxic.

Figures released by the Patrolmen's Benevolent Association (PBA) appear to bear
out the theory, with cancer rates among NYPD officers who attended the disaster
running at 16 a year compared to six before the attacks. The average age they
were forced to leave the force due to their ill-health was 44.

Lung cancer was the most common form of the disease among officers, although
there were more rare varieties including cancers of the bile duct, tongue and
nasal passages.

The figures are likely to fuel campaigners who want to include cancers on the
list of ailments which qualify Ground Zero workers for compensation.

Under the Zadroga Act, named for Detective James Zadroga who died of a
respiratory disease after taking part in the recovery operation, sick 9/11
workers are entitled to health screening and financial benefits.

New York's City Hall has always refused to release cancer rates among the NYPD,
saying that the information was private.

The office of Mayor Bloomberg turned down a request for the data from the Mount
Sinai School of Medicine, which is carrying out a study into whether material
released at Ground Zero was cancerous.

Frank Tramontao, research director at the PBA, said: "It is our sincere opinion
that the City of New York has done nothing to facilitate any cancer study and
has been actively working to prevent a comprehensive examination of the issue."

Retired NYPD Officer Edwin Rivera, 55, is one of those who blames his cancer on
breathing in dust at Ground Zero.

He told the New York Post:                      "We sat in the pile and ate,
drank water, rested - there was nowhere to go that wasn't contaminated. I have
cancer that I should never have gotten."

LOAD-DATE: February 6, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTNS


                  Copyright 2012 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              85 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                            The Independent (London)

                            February 7, 2012 Tuesday
                                 First Edition

A defiant city at the mercy of Assad;
Civilians in Homs speak out about the terror of Syria's attacks as onslaught
intensifies

BYLINE: ALASTAIR BEACH in Cairo and JUSTIN VELA in Istanbul

SECTION: WORLD; Pg. 30

LENGTH: 656 words


As Mahmoud Haddad spoke down the patchy satellite phone line, another shell came
fizzing into a nearby apartment block. "Can you hear that?" said the
35-year-old, the aftershock still rattling the windows of his flat in Homs.
"That is what Russia and China have given permission for."

Mahmoud lives in Bab Amr, among the neighbourhoods that have been hardest hit by
the Syrian regime's assault on Homs. More than 200 people were massacred in the
city on Friday night, according to a rights group, in what was the single
bloodiest day of an uprising which the UN says has led to the deaths of more
than 5,600 civilians.

Amateur video footage lays bare a city under siege, with street after street
left deserted by terrified residents. Mahmoud said another 25 people were
slaughtered yesterday, as troops lobbed shells into his neighbourhood. A member
of the opposition Syrian National Council claimed the figure was as high as 50.
"It started at 6am," said Mahmoud. "After the first attacks last week, we set up
a field hospital. Then the army shelled it, so we started taking injured people
to safe houses. But there is no such thing as a safe house in Homs."

The Local Co-ordination Committees, a network of activists that works to
publicise Syria's uprising, said that yesterday two people were killed and one
paramedic injured when a makeshift clinic was struck during an artillery
bombardment.

Syrian state media denied government troops were attacking the area, claiming
civilians were torching tyres in order to mimic the effects of bombardment.
Mahmoud insisted such statements were lies, claiming that over the weekend the
military had deployed a helicopter over Bab Amr which had strafed neighbourhoods
with machine-gun fire. "The city has become like Afghanistan. We have had a lot
of journalists who have visited Bab Amr. Some of them were in Kandahar, some in
Bosnia. They all say that Bab Amr is the most dangerous place they have been in
because of the frequency of the shelling and the snipers," he said.

Other activists echoed the sense of fear that envelops Homs. "It's become
impossible to go out on the street," said Waleed Fares, from the city's
Al-Khaldya neighbourhood. Abu Rabea, from the eastern neighbourhood of Karm
Zeitoun, explained why. "There are 10 snipers on the street outside my house,"
he said.

Back in Bab Amr, Mahmoud said that with President Bashar al-Assad intensifying
his assault on Homs, its residents were being subject to a terrifying new kind
of weapon. "For months they have been using mortars," he said. "Now they are
using rockets... We know a defected soldier who saw the rocket-firing vehicles
being deployed in a village west of Homs last month. They have a capacity of 30
rockets per minute."

According to Mahmoud, the army units surrounding Homs are also using a sinister
new strategy. First they launch a rocket into Bab Amr. Then, a few minutes after
it has found its target, they send another to exactly the same spot, just as the
locals are arriving at the scene to search for the dead and injured. The results
are horrific. "The rockets slice open people's stomachs. The roads are covered
with body parts," he said.

For Mahmoud, the decision by Russia and China to veto a recent resolution
calling on Assad to stand aside was unforgivable. "They gave Assad permission to
destroy us and clear us out of Homs," he said. "We need the United Nations. We
need the Arab League. We're humans - not animals... We need a force to protect
us. We want an invasion of Syria. We need anyone who can save our lives - even
Israel."

And he had a stern warning for Russia, whose opposition to UN action is partly
motivated by a desire to maintain its Soviet-era strategic alliance with
Damascus. "Eventually Assad will leave, either today, tomorrow or after one
year. We will still be here in Syria. After he leaves, Russia and China will
never have any communication with us again. They will pay for this."

LOAD-DATE: February 6, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: IA


                      Copyright 2012 Independent Print Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                              86 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                                South Wales Echo

                            February 7, 2012 Tuesday
                                 First Edition

BOMBERS PLANNED REIGN OF TERROR;
Suicide attacks ruled out in favour of prolonged campaign

BYLINE: Sam Malone

SECTION: NEWS; FRONT PAGE; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 61 words


A GROUP of Islamic extremists including three men from Cardiff decided against
suicide attacks - so their planned reign of terror would last longer, a court
has heard.

The nine-strong group, formed during a meeting in Cardiff's Roath Park, are
being sentenced over their roles in plotting a devastating attack on the London
Stock Exchange.

¦ Full story: pages 4&5

LOAD-DATE: February 7, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:  ¦ Omar Latif ¦ Abdul Miah ¦ Gurukanth Desai

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: sw


                    Copyright 2012 Western Mail and Echo Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                              87 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                       BBC Monitoring Trans Caucasus Unit
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                           February 8, 2012 Wednesday

S Ossetian KGB says Georgia plans "terror" attacks ahead of poll

LENGTH: 196 words


Text of a statement by the South Ossetian KGB posted on the South Ossetian
Cominf.org website on 8 February

The state security committee [KGB] of the republic of South Ossetia has reliable
information that Tbilisi, with the support of the West, has actively joined the
process of enflaming the domestic political situation in the republic.

Their main aim is to thwart the holding of the presidential election scheduled
for 25 March 2012, foment civil confrontation and cast doubt over the very
sovereignty and independence of South Ossetia. In order to achieve these aims,
Georgian special services plan to commit acts of provocation and terror.

In such conditions all political forces must refrain from ill-considered actions
that could play into the hands of our opponent and harm the political interests
of the republic of South Ossetia.

The KGB has taken necessary measures to stop any challenge to the constitutional
order and security of the republic of South Ossetia. Any illegal actions will be
decisively stopped within the framework of the constitution and acting
legislation.

Source: South Ossetian Press and Information Committee website, Tskhinvali, in
Russian 08 Feb 12

LOAD-DATE: February 8, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2012 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              88 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                    February 8, 2012 Wednesday 10:00 PM GMT

Al Qaeda is at "its weakest state" since 9/11, says senior Government security
adviser;
Al-Qaeda is now at "its weakest state" since the September 11 terrorist attacks,
according to the Home Office's top security adviser.

BYLINE: By Christopher Hope Senior Political Correspondent

LENGTH: 745 words


Senior intelligence officials are now even openly discussing "the demise of
Al-Qaeda" in the wake of the killing of Osama Bin Laden.

Charles Farr, the Home Office's intelligence chief told MPs in private that
Al-Qaeda was now at "its weakest state" since the September 11 terrorist
attacks.

Mr Farr, the director general of the Home Office's Office for Security and
Counter Terrorism who rarely speaks in public, added that it was "possible to
talk of the demise of parts of Al Qaeda" because of the revolutions in the
Middle East.

The comments, which were published quietly in part-redacted form this week on a
Parliamentary committee website, are the most optimistic yet that Britain and
the west is gradually gaining the upper hand in what has been dubbed the 'war on
terror'.

Ten years ago, in the wake of the September 11 2001 attacks on the east coast of
America, Admiral Sir Michael Boyce, the then-chief of the defence staff,
suggested that the "war on terror" might last 50 years.

However Mr Farr said: "Over the past year we have seen significant changes in
the terrorist threat - significant developments in the Middle East and the Arab
world, which have impacted on the threat in broadly positive ways.

"Al-Qaeda is no longer the organisation it was. It is at its weakest state since
9/11, and it is possible to talk of the demise of parts of Al-Qaeda in a way
that we could not have done if we had been having this conversation even a year
ago.

"I think opinion is changing in the Muslim majority world as well, generally,
against terrorism and against terrorist organisations. I am not quite as
pessimistic as you may be and I certainly don't think in 50-year terms."

Western intelligence agencies have been tightening the noose on Al Qaeda ever
since Bin Laden, the mastermind behind the 9/11 attacks, was killed by US forces
in Pakistan last year.

Mr Farr, once tipped as a future head of MI6, made the remarks last Autumn to
MPs on the Home Affairs Select Committee, which was investigating violent
radicalism.

Mr Farr also said that increasingly clerics from mosques and universities were
looking to radicalise younger Muslims in "private premises", rather than
mosques, because of the increasingly effective activities of the Security
Services.

He said: "In our experience, most radicalisation ... takes place in private
premises, simply because the people who are doing the radicalising are now much
more aware of the activities that we are conducting, which you are
investigating, than was the case two or three years ago."

Mr Farr also described the English Defence League as a "significant
organisation" adding "that it is deeply troubling in many respects and can cause
great harm".

But he said that the attacks similar to those in Norway, when Anders Breivik
Behring, with suspected far right sympathies, shot and killed 77 people last
year, were unlikely.

He told the MPs: "It is certainly the case that there is a strong extreme right
group or groups in this country, significant numbers of people who would
subscribe to extreme right wing views.

"However, we don't see such a tendency for people who hold those views to drift
into the world of terrorism.

"Extreme right terrorism in this country is and remains rare, and there are no
extreme right wing terrorist organisations operating here in the way that we may
have seen in some other countries overseas."

Mr Farr blamed "the view that we are conducting a war on Islam, not a war on
terrorism" as "a very significant reason why people have gravitated and drifted
into terrorist activities".

He also cited private Home Office polling that Muslims were three times more
likely than Christians to become radicalised.

According to the unpublished survey, carried out between April 2009 and March
2010, three per cent of Muslims thought it was 'always' or 'often right' to use
violent extremism in Britain to protest against things they judged to be very
unfair or unjust compared to one per cent of Christians and one per cent of
those with no religion.

The study also found that six per cent of Christians thought violent extremism
was 'always/often right' or 'sometimes right, sometimes wrong', compared with 15
per cent of Hindus and 12 per cent of Muslims.

However the survey added: "This tells us that while Muslims and Hindus are, as a
group, less likely than Christians to reject violent extremism, the differences
may be explained by their younger age profile and/or socioeconomic profile."

LOAD-DATE: February 8, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTNS


                  Copyright 2012 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              89 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring Middle East - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                           February 9, 2012 Thursday

Syrian state media say terrorist groups behind Homs, Idlib attacks

LENGTH: 1215 words


Text of report in English by state-run Syrian news agency SANA website;
subheadings as received

["Armed Terrorist Groups Continue Attacks against Civilians, Law-Enforcement
Members and Vital Facilit..." - SANA Headline]

Provinces (SANA) - An armed terrorist group detonated on Wednesday [8 February]
a booby-trapped car in Al-Bayyada neighbourhood in Homs, causing the deaths and
injuries of a number of civilians and law-enforcement members.

Terrorists Shell with Mortars al-Baath University, Homs Refinery and a number of
Homs Neighbourhoods, Attack Law-enforcement forces

In Homs, armed terrorist groups targeted with mortar shells Al-Baath University
in Homs, causing material damages only.

Earlier, armed terrorist groups also shelled with mortars Homs Refinery setting
ablaze two fuel tanks. Firefighters contained and extinguished the fire.

Armed terrorist groups attacked law-enforcement forces in a number of Homs
neighbourhoods. The authorities in the governorate are pursuing and clashing
with these groups.

In the same context, armed terrorist groups launched mortar projectiles and RPGs
from Baba Amr neighbourhood on the surrounding neighbourhoods and injuries were
reported.

Terrorist groups detonated a number of explosive devices in Baba Amr
neighbourhood in Homs. Civilians and law-enforcement members were reportedly
martyred.

Official source in Idlib denies reports of Army shelling of Maraat al-Numan and
Ariha

An official source in Idlib denied reports of the media which is partner in the
Syrian bloodshed about the Army shelling Marrat al-Numan and Ariha cities,
describing those news as baseless and untrue.

The source added that the armed groups shoot fires at citizens, break off roads,
attack public and private facilities as they stormed the Conscription Building
in Ariha.

It said that the authorities are doing its duty in protecting safety of citizens
and hunting the criminals.

Authorities dismantle explosives in Madaya

The authorities dismantled a number of explosives planted by the armed terrorist
groups on the road between Al-Zabadani and Madaya.

The sizes of the explosives ranged between 10 and 25 KGs, among them gas
cylinders in order to hit a big number of victims.

Authorities release a number of abducted citizens in Dar'a

An armed terrorist group kidnapped a number of citizens at Tseil Village in
Dar'a. SANA reporter in Dar'a learned that the authorities have been able to
release the kidnapped in cooperation with the families.

Dar'a Governor: Health and Service Facilities Functioning Normally

Governor of Dar'a Mohammad Khaled al-Hannous belied news broadcast by
instigative channels concerning the situation in the governorate, affirming that
the health and service facilities are offering services as usual.

In press statements, Al-Hannous said that life is normal in the city and work at
state institutions proceeds as usual.

"News on military vehicles entering neighbourhoods in Dar'a is intended to
disturb the state of calm and stability prevalent in the city," Al-Hannous said,
belying the news broadcast on Tuesday on the National Hospital being evacuated
at a time when work there was in full swing.

Armed Terrorist Groups Burglarize Houses in al-Khalidiyyeh, al-Bayyada,
al-Nazihin Neighbourhoods

Armed terrorist groups burglarized a number of houses in Al-Khalidiyyeh,
Al-Bayyada and Al-Nazihin neighbourhoods in Homs.

An official source told SANA correspondent that the armed groups destroyed the
houses' furniture and stole cars belonging to the residents in these
neighbourhoods.

In Talkalakh, an armed terrorist group stormed into the school in Al-Na'oura
village and stole 10 computers.

In Al-Nazihin neighbourhood in Homs, an armed group targeted the law-enforcement
members, killing one and wounding four others.

Armed Group storms al-Saraya Church at al-Hisn town in Homs

An armed terrorist group today stormed Al-Saraya Church at al-Hisn town in Homs,
seizing Father Walid Mimari and Mr Bassam Mimari.

In the same context, another armed group shot fire at a private car while
crossing Al-Hawash village in Homs, injuring citizen Rola Ibrahim Khalaf.

A Number of Law-Enforcement Members Injured in Idlib

A number of law-enforcement members were injured by the gunfire of an armed
terrorist group which targeted the building of recruitment department in Ariha,
Idlib countryside.

A source at the governorate told SANA correspondent that the authorities clashed
with the terrorist group, killed and injured a number of terrorists while the
others fled.

Armed Groups Seize Locomotives Carrying Cars in Idlib

An armed terrorist group seized locomotives carrying 36 cars in Maaret
al-Nou'man in Idlib. SANA correspondent quoted an official source as saying that
the armed groups ordered the locomotives to stop by force and took them to an
unknown place.

Six explosive devices planted by terrorists in Bsnakoul village in Ariha, Idleb,
were dismantled. SANA correspondent said that the explosive devices were
intended to target law-enforcement members and civilians in the area.

Armed Terrorist Group Attacks and Loots al-Naimi Hospital in Homs

An armed terrorist group on Wednesday [8 February] attacked Al-Naimi Hospital in
Homs governorate and looted its contents, including medical equipment and
furniture.

The Health Ministry issued a statement condemning this terrorist acts which
prevents citizens from receiving free healthcare, holding those who support, arm
and encourage armed groups responsible for the attacks on health establishments.

The Ministry also called on citizens to report any suspicious activity that may
indicate terrorists' intent to target health facilities.

Over the past months, terrorists attacked 16 hospitals, the last of which was
al-Qasir Hospital in Homs which was closed after terrorists stole all its
equipment and contents.

Authorities Clash with Armed Terrorists in Maraat al-Numan, Kill Three Most
Wanted Gunmen

Three of the most wanted criminals were killed in a clash with authorities after
they attacked the law-enforcement members in al-Daif Valley in Maraat al-Numan.

The criminals are Abdul-Aziz al-Basha, Jamil Qusra and Samer Said.

An armed group also blew up the Sport Hall in al-Rastan in Homs countryside. No
victims were reported. SANA correspondent was informed that the building was
empty as it came under previous attacks by an armed group.

Authorities Seize US and Israeli-made Sniper Rifles, LAU Missiles in Homs

The authorities seized on Wednesday high-precision US and Israeli-made sniper
rifles, grenades, explosive charges, RPG launchers, mortar shells, and
Israeli-made LAU missiles in Baba Amr neighbourhood in Homs.

SANA correspondent said that the authorities are clashing with gunmen in the
neighbourhood and have inflicted heavy losses on them.

Authorities Confiscate Explosive Devices, Materials for Making Explosives and
Toxic Substances in Lattakia

During their pursuit of a terrorist, the authorities on Wednesday confiscated
explosive devices and materials used for manufacturing them in a house in
Lattakia on Tuesday [7 February].

An official source told SANA's correspondent that the house contained handmade
explosive devices, uric fertilizer and acetone peroxide, in addition to
containers full of gasoline, acid and toxic substances.

Source: SANA news agency website, Damascus in English 9 Feb 12

LOAD-DATE: February 9, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2012 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              90 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring Middle East - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                            February 10, 2012 Friday

Syrian military, security bases targeted in "terrorist" attacks

LENGTH: 69 words


Text of report in English by state-run Syrian news agency SANA website

["Two Terrorist Attacks" - SANA Headline]

Aleppo, (SANA) - Two terrorist attacks on Friday morning [10 February] targeted
Military Security Branch and a headquarters of law-enforcement forces in Aleppo
City.

Many martyrs and injuries among military members and civilians were reported.

Source: SANA news agency website, Damascus in English 10 Feb 12

LOAD-DATE: February 10, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2012 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              91 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                       BBC Monitoring Africa - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                            February 10, 2012 Friday

"Panic" in northeastern Kenyan town over terror attacks

LENGTH: 406 words


Text of unattributed report entitled "Terror attack shakes Garissa" published by
privately-owned Kenyan daily newspaper The Star on 6 February

Panic has once again gripped Garissa town [northeastern Kenya] and its environs
following the weekends attack in which three people were shot dead by suspected
members of [Somali Islamists] Al-Shabab. Members of the terror group over the
weekend claimed responsibility for the attack. The incident occurred on Friday
[3 February] evening as the victims were taking tea outside a Jubba Hotel on
Posta Road in Garissa town.

A witness, Hamad Sheikh Mohamed, said two masked men armed with pistol
approached them and shot at them killing two on the spot. Two people with bullet
wounds were rushed to Garissa Provincial Hospital. One of them died yesterday as
preparations to move him to Nairobi were being made.

"This people come straight to where we were having tea after the evening
prayers. They then shot dead the two and before they could kill more, we started
scampering for safety," added the witness.

It is said the Al-Shabab leader in Afmadow held a public rally claiming they
were successful in the Garissa attack aimed at wiping out the supporters of the
enemies of Islam. The Al-Shabab militias said they were targeting two among the
victims who fled from Somalia to sabotage their success in the Kenyan war.

Leaders from Garissa condemned the attack and urged the police to immediately
launch investigations into the incident.

"For how long will we loose more innocent lives, this are not the first one to
be killed and they certainly wont be the last ones, we want to see arrests made
and this firearms that are in the wrong hands and being used to cause harm to
our people taken," said the Garissa peace committee secretary Hassan Osman.

The three slain were identified as two business men and two religious leaders
who hail from an extended clan in the Lower Jubba of Somalia.

"Nobody is safe in this town if two youthful attackers can walk into the middle
of the town armed with pistol, kill and walk away '' said the peace elder.

He asked the police to heighten patrols in the town especially hotels and social
places where large people meet at night.

Dr Al-Shabibi Amal, the deputy medical superintendent, said the conditions of
the remaining patient was in critical condition and medics were trying all their
best to ensure he was out of danger.

Source: The Star, Nairobi, in English 6 Feb 12

LOAD-DATE: February 10, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2012 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              92 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                      Coventry Evening Telegraph (England)

                            February 10, 2012 Friday
                              Warwickshire Edition

I THOUGHT I WAS GOING TO DIE;
Teen tells of terror dog attack in park

BYLINE: Martin Bagot

SECTION: NEWS; FRONT PAGE; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 85  words


A TEENAGE GIRL has told how she thought she was going to die as she was savaged
by two dogs in a Coventry park.

Amy James, 14, was mauled by a Staffordshire bull terrier and a pit bull-cross
in Longford Park.

She spoke out after the dogs' owner who had let them off their leads was taken
to court - but allowed to keep the pets.

Recalling the horrific attack she said: ''They were tearing at my arms for about
30 seconds.

"I thought I was going to die. I didn't cry but I just remember screaming.''
FULL STORY: PAGE 5

LOAD-DATE: February 10, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: INJURIES: Brave Amy James, 14, shows the scars that have been left
behind after being mauled by two dogs in a Coventry park

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2012 Coventry Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              93 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                 BBC Monitoring Former Soviet Union - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                            February 13, 2012 Monday

Muslim cleric killed in apparent terrorist attack in south Russia

LENGTH: 80 words


Text of report by corporate-owned Russian news agency Interfax

Pyatigorsk, 13 February: Unidentified individuals bombed the deputy mufti of
Stavropol Territory in Pyatigorsk on Monday [13 February] evening, a source in
the law-enforcement bodies told Interfax-South news agency.

"Stavropol Territory's deputy mufti has been bombed. He has died. The
circumstances of the incident are being established," said the source.

Source: Interfax news agency, Moscow, in Russian 1459 gmt 13 Feb 12

LOAD-DATE: February 13, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2012 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              94 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                 BBC Monitoring Former Soviet Union - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                            February 13, 2012 Monday

Russian news agency names dead cleric, blast may not have been terrorist attack

LENGTH: 199 words


Russian Interfax news agency has named the Muslim cleric who died in an
explosion in the southern town of Pyatigorsk on 13 February.

Citing a source in local law enforcement bodies, Interfax identified the man by
his surname, Ismailov, who was deputy mufti of Stavropol Territory.

The source said that Ismailov died when a car exploded in Pyatigorsk's Ulitsa
Yermolova street. "It could have been domestic gas explosion or something else,"
he said.

Interfax added, citing Internet reports, that Stavropol Territory's deputy mufti
was Kurman Ismailov, a graduate of an Islamic university in Medina, Saudi
Arabia, who lived and worked in Moscow as a teacher and translator of religious
literature before his appointment as deputy mufti of Stavropol Territory. In his
job he dealt with issues of religious education, said the report.

RIA Novosti news agency quoted an unnamed source in local law-enforcement bodies
as saying: "It was a local explosion, but not a terrorist attack. The incident
took place in Ulitsa Yermolova. Apart from Ismailov there were no casualties."

Sources: Interfax news agency, Moscow, in Russian 1521 gmt 13 Feb 12; RIA
Novosti news agency, Moscow, in Russian 1527 gmt 13 Feb 12

LOAD-DATE: February 13, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2012 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              95 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring South Asia - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                           February 14, 2012 Tuesday

Mumbai terror attack convict pleads for life imprisonment in Indian top court

LENGTH: 307 words


Text of report by Indian news agency PTI

New Delhi, 14 Feb: The sole convict in the 26/11 Mumbai terror attack case,
Mohammad Ajmal Amir Kasab, on Tuesday [14 February] pleaded with the Indian
Supreme Court to commute his death sentence to life imprisonment.

Senior advocate Raju Ramachandran, who has been appointed as amicus curiae by
the apex court to defend Kasab, told a bench headed by Justice Aftab Alam that
he was not a part of the larger conspiracy for waging war against the nation.

Stressing on Kasab's age as an important factor to commute his sentence, he
pleaded for a lenient approach as he was drawn into this by exploitation of
religious faith and false ideology.

"The choice before the Supreme Court is life (imprisonment) and irreversible
death penalty. It would not be prudent to affirm the extreme penalty," he said.

"Even if I am guilty under section 302 (punishment for murder) of the IPC
[Indian Penal Code] and other provisions, it cannot be said that I was a part of
the larger conspiracy of waging war," he submitted on behalf of Kasab.

Maintaining that the prosecution has failed to prove the case against him beyond
doubts, he told the bench that his right against self-incrimination as well as
his right to get himself adequately represented by a counsel to defend himself
in the case have been violated during the trial.

The apex court had on 10 October last year stayed the death sentence of
24-year-old Kasab, the lone surviving terrorist involved in the November, 2008,
Mumbai attack.

In the special leave petition filed by Kasab challenging the Bombay High Court
judgement, he claimed he was brainwashed like a "robot" into committing the
heinous crime in the name of "God" and that he does not deserve capital
punishment owing to his young age.

Source: PTI news agency, New Delhi, in English 1333gmt 14 Feb 12

LOAD-DATE: February 14, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2012 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              96 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring South Asia - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                           February 14, 2012 Tuesday

Indian minister terms Israeli diplomat car blast "terrorist" attack

LENGTH: 365 words


Excerpt from report by Indian news agency PTI

New Delhi, 14 Feb: Home Minister of India P. Chidambaram on Tuesday [14
February] termed the attack on a Israeli diplomat as a terror strike and said a
well-trained person orchestrated the crime.

Condemning the incident, Chidambaram said diplomats of every country were
entitled to live and work in India in peace and security.

"It is quite clear that a very well-trained person has committed this attack.
There is reason to believe that the target was the Israeli diplomat's wife and,
therefore, one has to proceed on the basis that it was a terrorist attack," he
told reporters here.

The home minister was speaking for the first time on the terror attack Monday in
which an Israeli embassy car was targeted with a magnetic bomb that went off in
a high security area here critically injuring the woman diplomat Chidambaram
said the Delhi police commissioner and the officer concerned (leading the probe)
briefed him this morning about the incident.

The home minister said investigation was on and it appeared that a motorcycle
rider - single person - came from behind when the Innova car was stopped at a
junction because the traffic signal light was red.

He said the assailant attached the device at the rear door of the car, the trunk
area of the vehicle on the right side, and zipped past it presumably turning
either left on Safdurjung Road or proceeding straight on Kamal Attaturk Marg.

"The explosion, according to the eyewitness Gopal Krishnan, happened within
seconds. We think it happened within four to five seconds of the device being
attached," he said.

Chidambaram said CCTV cameras located in the vicinity were being scanned and the
investigators have got some images but so far there has been no clear image of
any motorcycle or the number plate of the two-wheeler.

Special teams have been deployed to locate the motorcycle and identify the
person who drove it, he said.

"We condemn the incident and, at the moment, I am not pointing a finger at any
particular group or any particular organisation but whoever did it, we condemn
it in the strongest terms," he said.

Source: PTI news agency, New Delhi, in English 0853gmt 14 Feb 12

LOAD-DATE: February 14, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2012 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              97 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                            i-Independent Print Ltd

                               February 14, 2012
                                 First Edition

'Demolition Man' faces trial for terror attacks;
Panorama Around the world in 10 stories INDONESIA

BYLINE: Kathy Marks ASIA-PACIFIC CORRESPONDENT

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 24

LENGTH: 253 words


Indonesian police called Umar Patek "Demolition Man", such was his alleged
bomb-making expertise. Yesterday Mr Patek went on trial charged with a string of
terrorism-related offences, including assembling the explosives used to blow up
two Bali nightclubs in 2002.

The 45-year-old - arrested last year in the Pakistani town of Abbottabad, where
Osama bin Laden was killed by US commandos a few months later - is the last of
the alleged Bali plotters to be brought to justice. Twenty-eight Britons were
among the 202 people, mainly foreign tourists, killed in the attack.

Most of Mr Patek's alleged co-conspirators were tracked down years ago; three
were executed, three are serving life sentences and several were shot dead by
police. Mr Patek not only evaded capture for nearly a decade, but pursued his
terrorist activities, according to the lengthy indictment read out in the West
Jakarta district court.

The son of a goat-meat trader, Mr Patek allegedly learnt bomb-making at training
camps in Pakistan and Afghanistan in the early 1990s. He told police that he
spent three weeks holed up in a rented house in Bali mixing the ingredients for
the bomb - 700kg of potassium chlorate, sulphur and aluminium powder. For tools
he used a rice ladle and a set of grocery scales. The explosives were stored in
plastic bags and stashed inside a set of plastic filing cabinets, which were
loaded into a van and detonated outside the Sari Club.

Another bomb was carried into neighbouring Paddy's Bar in a suicide bomber's
backpack.

LOAD-DATE: February 14, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: III


                      Copyright 2012 Independent Print Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                              98 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                            i-Independent Print Ltd

                               February 14, 2012
                                 First Edition

Israel accuses Iran of co-ordinating terror attacks on its embassies;
BOMBINGS

BYLINE: Donald Macintyre IN JERUSALEM and John Elliott IN DELHI

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 281 words


Israel yesterday blamed its arch-rival Iran for being behind co-ordinated bomb
attacks that targeted Israeli embassy staff in India and Georgia, an accusation
which is likely to raise already heightened regional tensions.

The wife of an Israeli diplomat in Delhi needed surgery to remove shrapnel, and
three other people were injured as the diplomatic car she was being driven in
exploded as she left to pick up her children from school. A bomb planted in the
Georgian capital of Tbilisi was defused.

The incidents intensified the friction that has been building between Israel and
Iran over Tehran's nuclear programme, with Israel's Prime Minister Benjamin
Netanyahu declaring: "Iran is behind these attacks and it is the largest terror
exporter in the world."

Mr Netanyahu linked yesterday's attacks against Israel with others thwarted over
recent months, including in Azerbaijan and Thailand, which he said he said had
been prepared by "Iran and its protégé Hezbollah".

The Delhi incident took place in the high security central area of the city, a
few hundred yards from both the closely guarded residence of the prime minister
and the Israeli embassy.

Delhi Police Commissioner B.K. Gupta said as the car approached a crossing the
wife of an Israeli defence ministry official posted in the city, Tal
Yehoshua-Koren, noticed a motorcyclist ride up and stick what appeared to be a
magnetic device on the car. He said that the car had driven a short distance
when there was an explosion and the car caught fire.

Iran's ambassador to India, Mahdi Nabizadeh, rejected Mr Netanyahu's accusation
as "lies" and added, according to Iran's official news agency IRNA: We condemn
any terrorist attack.

LOAD-DATE: February 14, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: III


                      Copyright 2012 Independent Print Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                              99 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                     February 14, 2012 Tuesday 7:28 PM GMT

Israel accuses Iran of terrorism after Iranian man blows his own legs off in
Bangkok blast;
Israel has accused Iran of another "attempted terrorist attack" after an Iranian
operative blew his own legs off while trying to flee an accidental explosion at
a bomb factory in Bangkok.

BYLINE: By Damien McElroy and Ian MacKinnon

LENGTH: 801 words


The bizarre incident came just a day after co-ordinated bomb attacks on Israeli
diplomats in India and Georgia and fuelled fears of a worldwide campaign by Iran
to attack Israeli interests overseas.

Iran has been threatening retaliation for a series of covert attacks inside its
borders that targeted leading nuclear scientists and defence officials.

It is believed the Iranian bomber injured in Tuesday's Bangkok blast may have
been in the final stages of planning an attack together with two accomplices.

The extraordinary sequence of events began when a large explosion ripped off the
roof of a house in the centre of Thailand's capital which had been rented by the
three men for several months.

The first two men soon emerged from the house and ran off while the third, who
was injured in the blast, attempted to flag down a taxi.

However, the driver, seeing the man's bloodied condition, refused the fare.

Outraged, the Iranian man then threw a grenade at the taxi damaging the vehicle
and injuring the driver.

As Thai police gave chase from nearby, he threw another grenade at the officers.
It hit a tree, bounced back and exploded under his legs.

Maj Gen Pisit Pisutsak, Bangkok's deputy police commissioner, said a passport
found in the bag identified the man as Saeid Moradi, 50, an Iranian.

He was being treated at a Bangkok hospital where doctors amputated part of his
legs.

A second Iranian man suspected of involvement in the blasts, Mohammad Hazaei,
42, was arrested at the airport. He was planning to board an Air Asia flight to
the Malaysian capital, Kuala Lumpur.

The third suspect remained at large on Tuesday night as police searched for his
whereabouts.

Thai police said they had found more explosives inside the house where the first
explosion occurred.

Four Thais, three men and a woman, were injured in the explosions which took
place in the rented house in the south-east of the city.

Authorities were trying to trace Moradi's movements, but initial reports
indicated he arrived in Thailand from Seoul, South Korea on Feb. 8. He landed at
the southern resort of Phuket, then stayed for several nights in a hotel in
Chonburi, a couple hours drive southeast of Bangkok, for several nights.

Prime Minister Yingluck Shinawatra called on people "not to panic" and said the
situation was under control.

It was the second time in as many months that the Thai police have uncovered
suspicious Iranian related terrorist activity in the country.

On Tuesday night, Ehud Barak, Israel's defence minister, who left Bangkok after
a visit on Sunday, said Iran had been caught plotting another attack on his
country.

"The attempted terrorist attack in Bangkok proves once again that Iran and its
proxies continue to perpetrate terror," he said. "The recent terror attacks are
yet another example of this.

"Iran and Hizbollah are uninhibited sources of terror, they are a danger to the
stability of the region and a danger to the stability of the world."

Last month Thai police arrested a Swedish-Lebanese man with links to pro-Iran
Hezbollah following warnings from the US and Israel about a possible terrorist
attack in Bangkok.

The man led police to a cache of bomb-making materials, 4,000kgs of urea and
several litres of ammonium nitrate, but government officials said they were
content with his assurances the material was being transported to a third,
unspecified country, and was not planning an attack in Thailand.

Matthew Levitt, an expert in Iran's overseas terrorist activities at the
Washington Institute think tank, said Iran was globally plotting attacks against
Israel both directly and through the Lebanese Hizbollah.

"We've seen a whole series of credible threats exposed in recent months in
Azerbaijan, Thailand, India, Turkey, South America and Africa," he said. "Its
very serious because, as the director of US intelligence told Congress, Iran's
leaders see no red lines crossed by carrying out attacks on foreign soil."

Indian officials warned the attack on a car carrying the wife of the Israeli
defence attache was an act of terrorism carried out byby a well-trained
attacker. The country's home minister has vowed to find the assailants. Tal
Yehoshua Koren, the woman caught in Monday's attack, remained in hospital
recovering from an operation to remove shrapnel from her back.

Yehoshua Koren managed to escape from her car after it exploded having seen a
motorcyclist wearing a black helmet attach the bomb, relatives said.

Another explosive device found at the Israeli embassy in Tbilisi was defused.

Meanwhile the Iranian opposition Green movement claimed its had stage the first
open protest in the Iranian capital in months.

The protests in Tehran marked one year since Iran's main opposition leaders
Mir-Hossein Moussavi and Mehdi Karroubi were placed under house arrest.

LOAD-DATE: February 14, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTNS


                  Copyright 2012 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              100 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                 thetimes.co.uk

                     February 14, 2012 Tuesday 3:39 PM GMT

'Iranian bomber' injured in botched Bangkok terror attack

BYLINE: Bill Condie, Bangkok, and Philippe Naughton

SECTION: ASIA

LENGTH: 610 words


Israel accused Tehran of exporting terror around the world today after an
Iranian man blew his own legs off in a botched bombing in Bangkok.

The attack came a day after four people including the wife of an Israel diplomat
were injured in an attack in Delhi and a bomb plot was foiled at the Israeli
embassy in Georgia.

"The attempted terrorist attack in Bangkok proves once again that Iran and its
proxies continue to perpetrate terror," Ehud Barak, the Israeli Defence
Minister, said during an official visit to Singapore. "The recent terror attacks
are yet another example of this."

Today's violence began when a concealed collection of explosives apparently
exploded by accident in a Bangkok house rented by Saeid Morabi, an Iranian, and
two other foreigners.

With part of the roof blown off, the two other men ran from the house, followed
by the bomber, who had been injured in the blast.

"He tried to wave down a taxi but he was covered in blood and the driver refused
to take him," said General Pansiri Prapawat, a police spokesman. Morabi threw a
grenade into the taxi - wounding the driver - and then began running.

As police called to the area after the two explosions tried to apprehend him,
the bomber threw another grenade to defend himself, only for it to bounce back
off a tree and blow off his legs.

Photographs of the wounded Iranian showed him lying on a glass-strewn pavement
outside a school, covered in soot.

A dark satchel nearby was investigated by a bomb disposal unit and General
Pansiri said that police found Iranian currency, US dollars and Thai money in
the bag.

The taxi driver and the other three people injured, all Thais, were taken to
hospital with minor injuries. The presumed bomber was taken to Chulalongkorn
Hospital in central Bangkok where he is under guard.

Jonathan Glonek, a businessman with an office about half a mile from the scene,
told The Times that he heard two loud booms at about 2pm.

"At first I thought it was a transformer blowing up," he said. "But these blasts
were much louder than that and shook all the windows in the office."

The road was closed as police searched for further explosives and people living
in the area were asked to stay indoors.

Another Iranian was detained this evening at Bangkok's international airport as
he tried to leave for neighbouring Malaysia. It was not known whether he was
involved in today's blasts.

Last month a Lebanese-Swedish man with alleged links to pro-Iranian Hezbollah
militants was detained by Thai police. He led authorities to a warehouse filled
with more than four tonnes of urea fertiliser and several gallons of liquid
ammonium nitrate.

Israel and the United States warned their citizens at the time to be alert in
the capital, but Thai authorities said that Thailand appeared to have been a
staging ground but not the target of any attack. General Pansiri said that "so
far, we haven't found any links between these two cases".

The Thai Prime Minister, Yingluck Shinawatra, urged people not to "jump to
conclusions" about the circumstances behind the blasts.

"Let the police and intelligence agencies do their work and the public must not
panic because the perpetrator was detained," she told reporters during a visit
to northeast Thailand.

Indian investigators meanwhile searched for what they called a well-trained
motorcycle assailant who stuck a magnet bomb on the car in Delhi.

Iran has denied responsibility for the attack, which injured four people, as
well as for the foiled bombing of an Israeli diplomatic car in Georgia, which
appeared to mirror the recent "sticky bomb" killings of Iranian nuclear
scientists that Tehran has blamed on Israel.

LOAD-DATE: February 14, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBTTO


                     Copyright 2012 News International Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                              101 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                 thetimes.co.uk

                     February 14, 2012 Tuesday 2:49 PM GMT

'Iranian bomber' injured in botched Bangkok terror attack

BYLINE: Bill Condie, Bangkok, and Philippe Naughton

SECTION: ASIA

LENGTH: 687 words


An Iranian man blew off his own legs in what appeared to be a botched terror
attack in Bangkok today. Israel said it could not rule out a link with
yesterday's attack on a diplomatic vehicle in Delhi.

Four other people were injured in a trio of explosions in the Thai capital,
including a taxi driver who refused to stop for the bomber.

The violence began when a concealed collection of explosives apparently exploded
by accident in a house rented by the attacker, whom police identified as Saeid
Moradi. Part of the house roof was blown off.

Police said that two foreigners quickly left the residence, followed by the
bomber, who had been injured in the blast.

"He tried to wave down a taxi, but he was covered in blood, and the driver
refused to take him," said General Pansiri Prapawat, a police spokesman. He
threw a grenade at the taxi, which exploded, and then began running.

As police called to the area after the two explosions tried to apprehend him,
the bomber threw another grenade to defend himself, only for it to bounce back
and blow off his legs.

Photographs of the wounded Iranian showed him lying on a glass-strewn pavement
outside a school, covered in soot.

A dark satchel near by was investigated by a bomb disposal unit and General
Pansiri said that police found Iranian currency, US dollars and Thai money in
the bag.

The taxi driver and the other three people injured, all Thais, were taken to
hospital with minor injuries. The presumed bomber was taken to Chulalongkorn
Hospital in central Bangkok where he is under guard.

Police Colonel Sittiphab Baiprasert said that the explosions happened about 100
yards apart on Sukhumvit Soi 71, a busy street about three miles from the main
business area of the city.

The first blast was outside a school but no students were reported injured. The
district is a popular upmarket residential district with many bars and
restaurants frequented by foreigners.

Jonathan Glonek, a businessman with an office about half a mile from the scene,
told The Times that he heard two loud booms at about 2pm.

"At first I thought it was a transformer blowing up," he said. "But these blasts
were much louder than that and shook all the windows in the office."

The road was closed as police searched for further explosives and people living
in the area were asked to stay indoors.

Another Iranian was detained this evening at Bangkok's international airport as
he tried to leave for neighboring Malaysia. It was not known whether he was
involved in today's blasts.

Last month a Lebanese-Swedish man with alleged links to pro-Iranian Hezbollah
militants was detained by Thai police. He led authorities to a warehouse filled
with more than four tonnes of urea fertiliser and several gallons of liquid
ammonium nitrate.

Israel and the United States warned their citizens at the time to be alert in
the capital, but Thai authorities said that Thailand appeared to have been a
staging ground but not the target of any attack. General Pansiri said that "so
far, we haven't found any links between these two cases".

The Thai Prime Minister, Yingluck Shinawatra, urged people not to "jump to
conclusions" about the circumstances behind the blasts.

"Let the police and intelligence agencies do their work and the public must not
panic because the perpetrator was detained," she told reporters during a visit
to northeast Thailand.

In Jerusalem, an Israeli Foreign Ministry spokesman, Yigal Palmor, said that
there was not yet any sign that any targets in Bangkok were Israeli or Jewish.

It was not clear if there was any link with the attack on an Israeli diplomatic
vehicle in Delhi and an abortive attack on the embassy in Tbilisli yesterday but
"we can't rule out any possibility".

Indian investigators meanwhile searched for what they called a well-trained
motorcycle assailant who stuck a magnet bomb on the car in Delhi.

Iran has denied responsibility for the attack, which injured four people, as
well as for the foiled bombing of an Israeli diplomatic car in Georgia, which
appeared to mirror the recent "sticky bomb" killings of Iranian nuclear
scientists that Tehran has blamed on Israel.

LOAD-DATE: February 14, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBTTO


                     Copyright 2012 News International Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                              102 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                 thetimes.co.uk

                     February 14, 2012 Tuesday 12:11 PM GMT

'Iranian bomber' injured in botched Bangkok terror attack

BYLINE: Bill Condie, Bangkok, and Philippe Naughton

SECTION: ASIA

LENGTH: 669 words


A man described by police as an Iranian blew off his own legs today in what
appeared to be a botched terror attack in Bangkok.

A taxi driver and three other people were injured when at least two bombs
exploded in the Thai capital at about 2pm local time.

The attack comes the day after four people were injured in a bomb attack on an
Israeli diplomatic vehicle in Delhi and a bomb was defused at the Israeli
Embassy in Tbilisi.

Witnesses said that the attacker threw one grenade at a taxi, injuring the
driver and three bystanders, before running away chased by police.

He is said to have tried to throw another bomb at the police but dropped the
explosive, blowing off his own legs.

The Thai-ASEAN News Network reported that the man had first set off a device at
the rented house that he shared with two other foreigners before the two other
explosions. It said that police had named him as Sayed Murabi, an Iranian.

"Police believe the Iranian national bombed his rented house first and then left
the house and tried to hail a taxi," it reported.

"When the taxi driver refused to pick him up, he got angry and threw a grenade
at the taxi. Police then started pursuing him, upon which he tried to throw
another grenade at them but missed and blew off his own legs.

"Police are now inspecting the rented house of the suspect which was severely
damaged from an explosion. They believe more explosives are being kept in the
house. They are also hunting for the suspect's two housemates."

The taxi driver and the other three injured were taken to hospital with minor
injuries. The presumed bomber was taken to Chulalongkorn Hospital in central
Bangkok where he remains under guard.

Reports that Iranian identity papers and a quantity of Iranian currency were
found near the scene of the second blast could not immediately be confirmed.

Police Colonel Sittiphab Baiprasert told reporters that the explosions happened
about 100 yards apart on Sukhumvit Soi 71, a busy street about three miles from
the main business area of the city.

The first blast was outside a school but no students were reported injured. The
district is a popular upmarket residential district with many bars and
restaurants frequented by foreigners.

Jonathan Glonek, a businessman with an office about half a mile from the scene,
told The Times that he heard two loud booms at about 2pm.

"At first I thought it was a transformer blowing up," he said. "But these blasts
were much louder than that and shook all the windows in the office."

The road was closed as police searched for further explosives and people living
in the area were asked to stay indoors.

While terror attacks have been rare in Bangkok, a continuing Muslim insurgency
in the south of Thailand regularly targets civilians and has resulted in
thousands of deaths over the past five years.

Last month, the US Embassy issued an emergency warning of potential terrorist
attack against Americans in Bangkok. A suspected terrorist with alleged links to
Hezbollah militants was later apprehended, leading Thai police to a warehouse
full of bomb-making equipment.

The Thai Prime Minister, Yingluck Shinawatra, urged people not to "jump to
conclusions" about the circumstances behind the blasts.

"Let the police and intelligence agencies do their work and the public must not
panic because the perpetrator was detained," she told reporters during a visit
to northeast Thailand.

Meanwhile, Indian investigators searched for what they called a well-trained
motorcycle assailant who stuck a magnet bomb on an Israeli diplomatic car in
Delhi.

Iran has denied responsibility for the attack, which wounded four people, as
well as for the foiled bombing of an Israeli diplomatic car in Georgia, which
appeared to mirror the recent "sticky bomb" killings of Iranian nuclear
scientists that Tehran has blamed on Israel.

Israeli officials said they expected that the attacks would not be isolated. Dan
Meridor, a Cabinet minister, told Israel Radio in Jerusalem: "No doubt we face a
wave of terror."

LOAD-DATE: February 14, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBTTO


                     Copyright 2012 News International Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                              103 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                       BBC Monitoring Trans Caucasus Unit
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                          February 15, 2012 Wednesday

Israel carrying out terrorist attacks, blaming Iran - FM spokesman

LENGTH: 92 words


Iranian Foreign Ministry Spokesman Ramin Mehmanparast has said that Israel
carried out terrorist attacks across the world, trying to blame Iran, Fars news
agency reported on 15 February.

"By staging terrorist attacks in America, Georgia, India and, finally, in
Thailand, Zionists ascribe them to Iran, seeking to turn the world's public
opinion against Iran," Mehmanparast was quoted as saying at his meeting with
IRGC representatives in Bushehr Province in the morning of 15 February.

Source: Fars News Agency website, Tehran, in Persian 0902gmt 15 Feb 12

LOAD-DATE: February 15, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2012 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              104 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                          The Daily Telegraph (London)

                          February 15, 2012 Wednesday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

Israel blames Iran for grenade blast;
Accusations of attempted terrorist attack are made after man blows off legs
while fleeing explosion at Bangkok factory

BYLINE: Damien McElroy; Ian MacKinnon

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 720 words


ISRAEL accused Iran of another "attempted terrorist attack" last night after an
Iranian blew his own legs off while trying to flee from an accidental explosion
at a bomb factory in Bangkok.

The incident came just a day after coordinated bomb attacks on Israeli diplomats
in India and Georgia and led to fears of a worldwide campaign by Iran to attack
Israeli interests overseas.

Iran has been threatening retaliation for a series of covert attacks inside its
borders that targeted leading nuclear scientists and defence officials.

It is believed that the Iranian bomber injured in yesterday's Bangkok blast may
have been in the final stages of planning an attack with two accomplices.

The extraordinary sequence of events began when a large explosion ripped off the
roof of a house in the centre of Thailand's capital, which had been rented by
the three men for several months.

The first two men soon emerged from the house and ran off while the third, who
was injured in the blast, tried to flag down a taxi.

However, the driver, seeing the man's bloody injuries, refused the fare. The
Iranian man then threw a grenade at the taxi, injuring the driver.

As Thai police gave chase, he threw another grenade at the officers. It hit a
tree, bounced back and exploded under his legs. Maj Gen Pisit Pisutsak,
Bangkok's deputy police commissioner, said a passport found in the bag
identified the man as Saeid Moradi, 50, an Iranian.

He was being treated at a Bangkok hospital where doctors amputated part of his
legs. A second Iranian man suspected of involvement in the blasts, Mohammad
Hazaei, 42, was arrested at the airport. He was planning to board an Air Asia
flight to the Malaysian capital, Kuala Lumpur.

The third suspect remained at large last night. Thai police said they had found
more explosives inside the house where the first explosion occurred.

Four Thais - three men and a woman - were injured in the explosions, which took
place in the rented house in the south-east of the city.

Authorities were last night trying to trace Mr Moradi's movements, but initial
reports indicated he arrived in Thailand from Seoul, South Korea, on Feb 8. He
landed at the southern resort of Phuket, then stayed for several nights in a
hotel in Chonburi, two hours drive south-east of Bangkok, for several nights.
Yingluck Shinawatra, the prime minister, called on people "not to panic" and
said the situation was under control.

It was the second time in as many months that the Thai police have uncovered
suspicious Iranian-related terrorist activity in the country.

Last night, Ehud Barak, Israel's defence minister, who left Bangkok after a
visit on Sunday, said Iran had been caught plotting another attack on his
country. "The attempted terrorist attack in Bangkok proves once again that Iran
and its proxies continue to perpetrate terror," he said. "The recent terror
attacks are yet another example of this.

"Iran and Hizbollah are uninhibited sources of terror, they are a danger to the
stability of the region and a danger to the stability of the world."

Last month, Thai police arrested a Swedish-Lebanese man with links to pro-Iran
Hizbollah following warnings from the US and Israel about a possible terrorist
attack in Bangkok.

The man led police to a cache of bombmaking materials, 4,000kg of urea and
several litres of ammonium nitrate. But government officials said they were
content with his assurances that the material was being transported to a third,
unspecified country, and was not planning an attack in Thailand.

Matthew Levitt, an expert in Iran's overseas terrorist activities at the
Washington Institute think tank, said Iran was plotting attacks against Israel
both directly and through the Lebanese Hizbollah. "We've seen a whole series of
credible threats exposed in recent months in Azerbaijan, Thailand, India,
Turkey, South America and Africa," he said. "It's very serious because, as the
director of US intelligence told Congress, Iran's leaders see no red lines
crossed by carrying out attacks on foreign soil."

Indian officials warned that the attack on a car carrying the wife of the
Israeli defence attache was an act of terrorism carried out by a well-trained
attacker.

Tal Yehoshua Koren, the woman caught in Monday's attack, remained in hospital
recovering from an operation to remove shrapnel from her back.

LOAD-DATE: February 15, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: The Iranian man lies injured on a pavement in Bangkok after a grenade
he threw hit him in the legs
REUTERS

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DTL


                  Copyright 2012 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              105 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                            Evening Times (Glasgow)

                          February 15, 2012 Wednesday
                                   1 Edition

Israel blames Iran for terrorist attack

BYLINE: NO BYLINE

SECTION: FOR; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 135 words


THAILAND: Israel has accused Iran of being behind a bungled terrorist attack in
Thailand after a man blew his legs off trying to throw a grenade at police.

Defence Minister Ehud Barak stopped short of saying the man was trying to target
Israelis, for whom Thailand is a popular holiday destination.

However, it came a day after Israel blamed Iran for attacks targeting Israeli
diplomats in India and Georgia.

And Mr Barak s comments made clear that Israel considers the attacks connected
and sponsored by the Iranian government.

Israeli officials believe Iran, and its Lebanese ally Hezbollah, are
aggressively targeting Israelis to avenge years of setbacks that they blame on
Israel.

Mr Barak said:  The attempted terrorist attack in Bangkok proves once again that
Iran and its proxies continue to perpetrate terror.

LOAD-DATE: February 15, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: ET


                      Copyright 2012 Newsquest Media Group
                              All Rights Reserved

                              106 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                               Grimsby Telegraph

                          February 15, 2012 Wednesday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

Terror attacks retold Extremely Loud [...]

SECTION: WHATS ON;FEATURES; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 10 words


Terror attacks retold Extremely Loud And Extremely Close - Page 8

LOAD-DATE: February 15, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: GRT


                        Copyright 2012 Grimsby Telegraph
                              All Rights Reserved

                              107 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                               Grimsby Telegraph

                          February 15, 2012 Wednesday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

Gently paced film recalls fateful day of terror attacks

SECTION: WHATS ON;FEATURES; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 515 words


PUBLISHED in 2005, Jonathan Safran Foer's second novel Extremely Loud And
Incredibly Close revisited the deadliest act of terrorism committed on American
soil through the eyes of a nine-year-old boy.

Soon after, British director Stephen Daldry began the slow process of bringing
Foer's haunting story to the multiplexes, aware of the sensitive touch required
to adapt this powerful material.

In the interim, he made The Reader with Kate Winslet, but all of the years of
effort with this long-cherished project appear to have been worthwhile.

Extremely Loud And Incredibly Close has been nominated for best picture at this
month's Oscars, and the film has attracted a deserved second nomination for
veteran Max von Sydow, as best actor in a supporting role.

The box office cache of co-stars Tom Hanks and Sandra Bullock should woo
mainstream audiences to a gently paced film that conjures chilling memories of
the Twin Towers shrouded in smoke.

Indeed, the film opens with the blurred image of a man falling through the air
against the backdrop of a blue sky filled with the flutter of discarded paper.

We quickly realise this could be one of the many people who jumped from the
buildings that fateful September morning.

Oskar Schell (Thomas Horn) remembers the day well - ''the worst day" - when he
lost his beloved father Thomas (Tom Hanks), shattering the happy home of his
mother Linda (Sandra Bullock).

The boy suffers from Asperger's-like symptoms and he carries a tambourine, which
soothes him in times of stress. When his father was alive, they used to play a
scavenger hunt game called Reconnaissance Expedition, which involved looking for
clues throughout New York City. An old key found in a smashed vase sparks
Oskar's imagination and the youngster becomes convinced that Thomas had left him
a clue from beyond the grave.

A late-night encounter with the mute, elderly man (Max von Sydow) who rents a
room in his grandmother's apartment provides Oskar with an unlikely accomplice
for the search.

Their odyssey criss-crosses the boroughs including a memorable visit to
despondent wife Abbey Black (Viola Davis), who tells the boy, ''Finding the lock
that key fits would be a miracle."

Extremely Loud And Incredibly Close is anchored by a mesmerising performance
from newcomer Horn, who is the emotional heart of the piece. The scene in which
he argues with his mother and snaps, ''I wish it were you in the building
instead of him," is deeply upsetting.

Hanks is glimpsed in flashback and Bullock impresses in her few scenes, but von
Sydow dominates all of his scenes, conveying heartbreaking emotion through his
eyes and gestures.

The resolution to Oskar's search feels contrived, almost preposterous, but the
excellent casting and flashes of Daldry's directorial brilliance counterbalance
our incredulity.

Flick of the week Extremely Loud and Incredibly Close Certificate 12A, 129 mins
Genre: Drama.

Stars: Thomas Horn, Max von Sydow, Sandra Bullock, Tom Hanks, Viola Davis, Zoe
Caldwell, John Goodman, Jeffrey Wright.

Director: Stephen Daldry. Swearing: Yes. Sex: No.

Violence: Yes. Rating: 7/10.

LOAD-DATE: February 15, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: OSCAR NOMINATED: Thomas Horn, as Oskar Schell, and Tom Hanks, as Thomas
Schell, in a scene from the film Extremely Loud And Incredibly Close.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: GRT


                        Copyright 2012 Grimsby Telegraph
                              All Rights Reserved

                              108 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                          The Guardian - Final Edition

                          February 15, 2012 Wednesday

International: Israel claims Iran was behind Bangkok 'terror attack': Iranian
loses legs when grenade goes off: Two men in custody as Thai police seek a third

BYLINE: Kate Hodal, Bangkok, Harriet Sherwood, Jerusalem

SECTION: GUARDIAN INTERNATIONAL PAGES; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 944 words


Israel has accused Iran of being behind three blasts in Bangkok that injured
five people and blew off the legs of the alleged bomber - an Iranian national
who was reportedly fleeing police when the grenade slipped through his hands and
detonated.

The blasts came a day after bombs targeted Israeli diplomats in India and
Georgia, and again escalated tensions between the two countries.

Thai police have not yet suggested motives for the blasts, but the Israeli
defence minister, Ehud Barak, directly accused Iran of exporting terror around
the world. "The attempted terror attack in Thailand proves once again that Iran
and its proxies continue to operate in the ways of terror and the latest attacks
are an example of that," said Barak.

He said Iran and its Lebanese ally Hezbollah were "unrelenting terror elements
endangering the stability of the region and endangering the stability of the
world".

A second man was arrested at Bangkok's Suvarnabhumi international airport after
authorities found explosive materials in a house apparently rented by the
alleged bomber and two others. A third suspect is still at large, according to
Thai police.

The two men in custody are likely to be closely interrogated by Thai police
about the intended target and who they were working for. Israeli officials said
they expected the Thai authorities would share information obtained in the
course of their investigation, but declined to say whether Israel would seek an
active role in the interrogation.

Saeid Moradi, who was seriously injured in the blast, is an Iranian national who
is thought to have entered Thailand from South Korea on 8 February at the
southern resort town of Phuket.

The second suspect has been named as Mohammed Hazaei, 42, an Iranian national,
who was detained trying to board a flight to Malaysia, local media said.

The blasts started at about 2pm local time yesterday, when a bomb detonated
inside a house in Ekkamai, a residential district in east Bangkok. The blast
blew off part of the roof, causing two occupants to flee, police said, followed
by Moradi.

"He tried to wave down a taxi, but he was covered in blood, and the driver
refused to take him," police general Pansiri Prapawat told Associated Press.

Moradi allegedly threw a grenade at the taxi, injuring the driver and four
others. When police tried to stop the suspect, local media reported he threw
another grenade at them, which bounced off a tree and detonated in front of him.
One of his legs was blown off and landed in a school playground. No children
were injured.

Doctors at Chulalongkorn hospital said his second leg had to be amputated above
the knee. A satchel found near the blast contained Iranian currency, US dollars
and Thai bahts.

A police raid on the house in Ekkamai found explosives and remote-control
detonators, a government spokeswoman told the Bangkok Post. Thai authorities
said they were alert to a potential bomb. "There was some warning of a possible
attack and police were monitoring, but we did not know where it would happen,"
the national police chief, Phrewphan Damapong, told AFP.

Observers fear the bomb attacks in Thailand, India and Georgia are the latest
acts in a covert war between Israel and Iran over the Islamic republic's nuclear
ambitions. Iran has accused Israel of assassinating several of its nuclear
scientists in magnet bomb attacks - the same weapon that was used to target an
Israeli diplomat in Delhi on Monday, injuring four people.

In Jerusalem, the Israeli foreign ministry spokesman, Yigal Palmor, said there
was not yet any sign that the targets in Bangkok were Israeli or Jewish.
"Security co-operation (between Israel and Thailand) is very tight," he said.

Israel has raised the state of alert within the country, with the emphasis on
public places, foreign embassies and offices, as well as Ben Gurion
international airport.

The US embassy in Bangkok released an emergency message to all US citizens in
the capital, stressing the need for "heightened awareness" of any suspicious
behaviour, while the Thai prime minister, Yingluck Shinawatra, urged the public
not to panic, saying it was still too early to assume terrorists were
responsible for the blast.

The explosions came a month after the US embassy warned that "foreign
terrorists" were poised to attack Bangkok, and a Lebanese-Swedish man with
alleged links to pro-Iranian Hezbollah was detained by police at Suvarnabhumi
airport. A warehouse filled with nearly four tonnes of urea fertiliser and
several gallons of liquid ammonium nitrate was later discovered.

Pansiri said that so far there were no links between last month's case and
yesterday's blasts.

Will Hartley, editor of IHS Jane's Terrorism & Insurgency Centre, said: "While
Israel's claims that Iran and Hezbollah are behind the attacks in India and
Georgia cannot be discounted, at this stage it's impossible to substantiate such
allegations. It is unclear why Iran would risk an attack on Israeli interests in
India, when India has been broadly supportive of Iran during the recent nuclear
sanctions debate, and is one of Iran's most important trade partners.

"The alleged perpetrator of today's attempted attack in Thailand reportedly
possessed an Iranian passport, possibly lending credence to Israel's allegation
that Iran is waging some kind of international campaign.

"However, the attacks in India, Georgia and now Thailand have all been highly
amateurish, and lack the sophistication that would be expected from an operation
executed by Hezbollah or Iran's external operations wing, the Quds Force."

Captions:

A Thai bomb disposal expert examines a bag found at the scene of one explosion
Photograph: Apichart Weerawong/AP

LOAD-DATE: February 15, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2012 Guardian Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              109 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                 Irish Examiner

                          February 15, 2012 Wednesday

Israel claims Iran behind 'terrorist attack' blasts

SECTION: WORLD

LENGTH: 467 words


The blasts came a day after an Israeli diplomatic car was bombed in India.
Tehran denied responsibility for that attack and a failed car bombing in
Georgia.

Thai security forces found more explosives in the house where the Iranian man
was staying with two compatriots in Bangkok, but the targets were not known,
Police Gen Pansiri Prapawat said. One of the other men was arrested at the
airport.

Monday's attacks appeared to mirror the recent "sticky bomb" killings of Iranian
nuclear scientists that Tehran has blamed on Israel.

Israeli Defence Minister Ehud Barak said that the Bangkok violence "proves once
again that Iran and its proxies continue to perpetrate terror."

"We know who carried out the terror attacks, we know who sent them, and Israel
will settle the score with them," Public Security Minister Yitzhak Aharonovitch
told Israel Radio.

Israeli police raised their state of alert throughout the country, and officials
predicted the attacks were the first in a wave of assaults on Israeli targets
worldwide by Iran and its Lebanese proxy, Hezbollah.

The bombings ratcheted already high tensions over Iran's nuclear program. Israel
doesn't believe Iran's claims that it aims to produce electricity, not bombs,
and its threats of a possible military strike have grown more ominous in recent
weeks.

In Thailand, yesterday's bizarre sequence of explosions began when explosives
apparently detonated by accident, blowing off part of the roof of the Bangkok
house.

City surveillance footage after the blast showed separate images of each of the
suspects walking down the middle of a residential street. A passport found at
one blast scene identified one man as Saeid Moradi from Iran, Pansiri said.

Moradi tried to wave down a taxi "but the driver refused," Pansiri said. Moradi
threw an explosive that partially destroyed the taxi.

Police tried to apprehend Moradi, who hurled a grenade at them. "But somehow it
bounced back" and blew off one of his legs, Pansiri said.

Photos showed the wounded man covered in dark soot on a sidewalk strewn with
broken glass. He lay in front of a Thai school, head raised as if he was
attempting to sit up or look around. Hospital officials said Moradi's right leg
was severed below the knee, while his left leg was intact but severely wounded.

Later security forces at a Bangkok airport detained an Iranian - identified as
Mohummad Hazaei - as he tried to board a flight for Malaysia, police said. They
said that he was one of the three in the house where explosives first went off.

A third Iranian is on the run, police said.

A Thai government spokeswoman, Thitima Chaisaeng, said "we need more analysis"
to determine who was behind the attack and Iranian involvement. She refused to
comment on what the suspects might have been planning or if targets had been
identified.

LOAD-DATE: February 15, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                    Copyright 2012 Thomas Crosbie Media Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              110 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                       BBC Monitoring Trans Caucasus Unit
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                           February 16, 2012 Thursday

Envoy denies Iran's hand in terror attacks, plans to make nukes

LENGTH: 333 words


Iranian envoy to the Russian Federation, Mahmud Reza Sajjadi, has denied
Israel's accusations that his country was behind the attacks on Israeli embassy
staff in India, Thailand and Georgia, Interfax news agency reported on 16
February.

"We do not respond with terror to terror attacks against our scientists. We will
respond, but only in political and diplomatic arenas," Sajjadi said at a news
conference in Moscow.

The ambassador did not rule out that the recent terror acts might have been
planned in Israel. "Israel is notorious in the world for its experience in
committing terrorist attacks," the agency quoted the envoy as saying.

Commenting on the EU embargo on oil export from Iran, Sajjadi said that "Europe
made a mistake by politicizing the energy issue".

"If the oil importers can declare an embargo, the exporter can do so, too,"
Sajjadi said.

"This is a political game and importers of energy resources are the losing
side," the envoy said, adding that the Iranian government did not stop oil
delivery to the West due to humanitarian considerations.

The Iranian ambassador also spoke about Iran's nuclear programme. Sajjadi said
Iran was ready to consider Russian Foreign Minister Sergey Lavrov's plan on the
regulation of the situation around Iran's nuclear programme, noting that the
West did not show interest in the plan.

"We can see that Western countries are not enthusiastic about Lavrov's
step-to-step plan. Iran is positive about this plan. We want to discuss this
plan," the envoy was quoted as saying at the news conference.

Sajjadi also said that Iran was not planning to make nuclear weapons. "If Iran
wanted to make nuclear weapons, why did it sign the NPT (the Nuclear
Non-proliferation Treaty)? Countries with nuclear weapons are not members of the
NPT," Interfax quoted the envoy as saying.

Source: Interfax news agency, Moscow, in Russian 0750 gmt 16 Feb 12; Interfax
news agency, Moscow, in Russian 0801 gmt 16 Feb 12; Interfax news agency,
Moscow, in Russian 0821gmt 16 Feb 12

LOAD-DATE: February 16, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2012 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              111 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                              Western Daily Press

                           February 16, 2012 Thursday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

Iran blamed for spread of terror attacks

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 239 words


Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu has warned that Iran is destabilising
the world and its aggression must be stopped.

In parliament yesterday Mr Netanyahu reiterated Israel's claims that Iran was
behind explosions this week that targeted Israeli diplomats in India and the
former Soviet republic of Georgia.

He said, "If this aggression isn't halted, ultimately it will spread to many
other countries." Mr Netanyahu spoke after police in Thailand said a third
Iranian suspect involved in a series of blasts which Israel said had been
intended to target their citizens had escaped into Malaysia. Three explosions
shook a residential area of Bangkok, leading police to a stash of explosives in
a rented house and the arrest oftwo Iranians.

Israel said that the bombs discovered in the house were similar to devices used
against Israeli Embassy targets in India and Georgia. While the targets of the
bombs was not clear, "we can assume from the other experiences that we were the
target", Israeli ambassador Itzhak Shoham said.

Thai police found and defused two magnetic bombs that could be stuck on
vehicles, he said.

"They are similar to the ones used in Delhi and in Tbilisi," Mr Shoham said.
"From that we can assume there is the same network of terror."

Israel has accused Iran of waging a covert campaign of state terror. Mr Shoham
said the arrest of the two Iranians "again leaves not too much room to assume
who was behind it".

LOAD-DATE: February 16, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: WDP


                    Copyright 2012 Northcliffe Media Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              112 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring South Asia - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                            February 17, 2012 Friday

Israeli minister says attack on diplomat shows terror cells active in India

LENGTH: 266 words


Text of Press Trust of India report headlined "Terror Cells Active in India:
Israeli Minister" published by Indian newspaper The Hindu website on 17 February

Jerusalem: Terror cells are "active" in India, a senior Israeli minister has
said, underlining that the recent attack on a diplomat in New Delhi should spur
the two nations to step up counter-terrorism cooperation.

"The incident (attack on an Israeli diplomat in Delhi on Monday [13 February])
makes it clear that there are terrorist cells in India. They have targeted
recently us but in the past they have also targeted Indian citizens and others.
What one can see here is a growing joint interest of India and Israel, who are
both exposed to terror threats", Israel's Minister for Energy and Water
Resources, Uzi Landau, told PTI ahead of his three day trip to India next week.

Mr. Landau had earlier served as Public Security minister.

Mr. Landau's comment came as the Israeli Foreign Ministry said it had stepped up
security for its diplomats posted overseas. Ministry's spokesman said that Tel
Aviv is taking "whatever measures required" to allow the diplomats to function.

He declined to outline the steps, but the media reported that Israeli diplomats
in some countries had been ordered to work out of their homes and avoid travel
to the local embassy.

The Israeli Cabinet minister's visit will come days after the terror attack in
the Indian capital in which for the first time the magnetic bombs were used. His
tour to India will follow a visit of a high level Israeli security team.

Source: The Hindu website, Chennai, in English 17 Feb 12

LOAD-DATE: February 17, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2012 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              113 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                         The Evening Standard (London)

                            February 17, 2012 Friday

US CITIES ON ALERT FOR TERROR ATTACK BY IRANIAN AGENTS

BYLINE: Richard Porritt

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 304 words


US police were on high alert today amid fears Iran is plotting an attack on a
major city.

The White House has warned all police forces to be prepared after attempts to
bomb Israeli targets in Thailand, Georgia and India this week. Officials are
tracking potential Iranian operatives or anyone with links to the country's
terrorist group.

Los Angeles, which has one of the world's largest Iranian communities has moved
potential Iranian threats to the top of its intelligence briefings over the past
few weeks.

"The attacks overseas raise everybody's anxiety level a little bit," said
Michael Downing, commander of the LAPD's counter terrorism unit.

The New York Police Department said it assumed Iran would attack the city
because of its large Jewish population. Iran has accused Israel of assassinating
nuclear scientists, while Israel has warned of a military strike against Iran's
nuclear sites. The chairman of the House of Representatives homeland security
committee, Peter King, said Hezbollah and Iran are capable of attacks inside the
US. He added that he had received two intelligence briefings on the Iranian
threat in the past two weeks.

He said: "We know they're here, mainly facilitators and fundraisers, that type
of thing. How quickly they could be activated, what others there are here,
that's the unknown."

Today in Bangkok police said they were searching for two more suspects. One may
have been providing training in the use of explosives to three Iranian men who
were detained after the plot was discovered on Tuesday.

The three men had partied with prostitutes at the southern beach resort of
Pattaya shortly before their arrest.

The Bangkok Post showed them at a Middle Eastern restaurant, two of them
embracing women. The men posed around a drink-filled table on which there was at
least one bottle of beer.

LOAD-DATE: February 17, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                    Copyright 2012 Evening Standard Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              114 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                               Independent.co.uk

                     February 17, 2012 Friday 12:00 AM GMT

Religion under threat in schools, claim MPs;
Since the 9/11 terrorist attacks in New York, RE has soared in popularity at
GCSE level

BYLINE: Richard Garner

SECTION: UK POLITICS

LENGTH: 326 words


The future of religious education in schools is under threat as a result of
government reforms, MPs have claimed.

A new all-party parliamentary group of MPs is being set up to safeguard the
subject, amid fears it is being sidelined after its omission from the list of
subjects recognised by the Government's new English Baccalaureate.

The new body, which will be supported by all the country's leading religious
groups as well as the British Humanist Association, follows a poll by religious
education teachers showing that 30 per cent of schools had cut the time for RE
since details of the new Baccalaureate had become known.

This is despite warm words by David Cameron and this week the Queen about the
central importance of faith to today's society. Earlier this week Baroness
Warsi, the Conservative party chairwoman, warned of the danger of "militant
secularists" downgrading the importance of religion in public life.

RE has soared in popularity as a subject at GCSE level since the 9/11 terrorist
attacks in New York. The number of students studying it has increased from
113,000 to 460,000 in the past 15 years.

Stephen Lloyd, Liberal Democrat MP for Eastbourne and Willingdon, who will chair
the new all-party parliamentary group, said: "It is clear that pupils find it a
rewarding and fulfilling subject." RE is a statutory subject on the syllabus for
five to 16-year-olds, but it is not included as part of the national curriculum.

Local RE bodies have been given the task of interpreting how it should be taught
in schools in their areas. Under the new English Baccalaureate, students will
qualify for it if they achieve five A* to C grade passes at GCSE in English,
maths, science, a foreign language and a humanities subject. However, the
humanities are restricted to history and geography with no mention of RE and the
arts.

The Religious Education Council, which includes 50 different religions, will
provide professional support for the new group.

LOAD-DATE: February 17, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBI


                  Copyright 2012 Independent News & Media plc
                              All Rights Reserved

                              115 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                   The Mirror

                            February 17, 2012 Friday
                                  Eire Edition

' AL-QAEDA AND IRAN IN TERROR PLOT;
ATTACKS

BYLINE: CHRIS HUGHES

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 139 words


IRAN and al-Qaeda have joined forces for a new 9/11-style terror plot - with
Britain a top target.

Amid fears for the London Olympics, intelligence sources say Iran has supplied
the terror network with training in the use of explosives.

One said: "Iran is harbouring terrorists from outside and has a huge capability
to send attackers to commit atrocities abroad."

Britain, said to have a huge intelligence -gathering operation in the Islamic
state, is now a bigger target than previously thought.

The source added: "Britain has a huge network of spies inside Iran - so a
link-up with al-Qaeda has grave implications for the UK.

"It puts Britain right up the target list for a terrorist attack."

The US is so concerned about the link-up, it has issued a EUR8.5million reward
to capture a Syrianborn al-Qaeda boss in Iran called Yasin al-Suri.

LOAD-DATE: February 17, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: REWARD J Yasin Al-Suri

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                            Copyright 2012 MGN Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              116 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                   The Mirror

                           February 18, 2012 Saturday
                                  Eire Edition

BRI SISTER'S TERROR AFTER STREET ATTACK;
CRAZED VAGRANT THOUGHT STAR SUSAN WAS IN MAFIA

BYLINE: MAEVE QUIGLEY

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 375 words


SINGER Susan McFadden suffered a terrifying attack by a crazed woman who thought
she was in the mafia.

The 29-year-old was battered by the mentally-ill vagrant who mistakenly believed
she recognised Susan as having links to the mob.

The assault happened just after 3pm on Tuesday afternoon outside the Centre For
The Performing Arts in Tampa, Florida, where Susan was due to go on stage with
Celtic Woman.

A spokesman for the company said: "Susan was attacked by a vagrant homeless
woman.

"She was talking on her mobile phone and the woman caught her unawares. She got
punched in the head but she's OK.

"Some of the band and crew were there so they were able to intervene. Susan
received medical attention and she was a bit traumatised by the attack.

"But she recovered herself and went on stage that night."

The alleged assailant Dawn Michelle Cote has a history of mental illness.

She has been confined on a number of occasions under the American Baker Act
which detains people with mental illness if they are believed to be a danger to
themselves or to others. Arresting officer David J Trick said Susan identified
Cote as her attacker.

He added: "The victim had a swollen knot on the back of her head, and she had
requested her personal physician.

"Ms McFadden stated she had gone outside the Performing Arts Centre to use her
cell phone before her performance.

"While she was on her cell phone, on the sidewalk, the defendant came up to her
and struck her once in the back of the head."

Worried Brian McFadden, 31, sent a message to his sister via Twitter asking: "I
heard what happened - are you OK? "My beautiful sister mugged and punched in the
head by a junkie. Scumbag! Wish I was there."

Cote was also allegedly caught on the security cameras of the arts centre
attacking the singer. But after she was arrested, Cote said she wanted to
apologise to Susan.

Officer Trick said: "Cote stated she thought she recognised the victim as a
person she knew from Long Island who was in the Mafia."

Cote's mental state also led her to believe Susan was following her and she said
she was frightened.

Last night Susan said she had recovered from her ordeal.

She added: "I'm OK, thank you to everyone for your concern. I'm enjoying touring
and being part of Celtic Woman."

LOAD-DATE: February 18, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: SUPPORT Brian's tweet STAGE Susan in Grease TARGET Celtic Woman star
Susan McFadden was assaulted in Florida ANGRY Brian McFadden

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                            Copyright 2012 MGN Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              117 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                 thetimes.co.uk

                    February 18, 2012 Saturday 12:01 AM GMT

Siege by Simon Kernick;
A version of the Mumbai terrorist attacks comes to London in a neatly crafted
thriller that pushes all our buttons

BYLINE: Peter Millar

SECTION: FICTION

LENGTH: 176 words


Siege by Simon Kernick; Bantam, 400pp, £12.99. To buy this book for £11.69 visit
thetimes.co.uk/bookshop or call 08452712134

Simon Kernick's Siege is about an altogether different sort of nightmare: the
murderous terrorist attacks on Mumbai transferred to London's West End. The day
starts off badly with a home invasion in a middle-class suburb to kidnap the
family of a senior policewoman in charge of central London operations.

It gets a whole lot worse when bombs go off in two train stations, all to
distract the force from the real target: a hotel on the edge of Hyde Park that
the terrorists have already infiltrated. Unlike in Mumbai, however, the killers
here have a specific target among the hotel's wealthy, well-connected guests.

Unbeknown to them, there is another killer hiding in the hotel. With another
target. A man dangerous enough to pose a serious threat to their plans. A
gripping read with a rich cast of nicely crafted characters and a clever plot -
or two - that comes together in a decidedly satisfactory ending.

LOAD-DATE: February 18, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBTTO


                     Copyright 2012 News International Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                              118 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring Middle East - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                            February 19, 2012 Sunday

Members of "terrorist cell" planning to attack Yemeni electoral centres arrested

LENGTH: 114 words


Text of report in English by state-run Yemeni news agency Saba website

["Terrorist cell planed to attack electoral centres arrested in Aden" - SABA
Headline]

The security authorities managed on Saturday [18 February] to arrest a
five-member terrorist cell in Aden governorate planned to attack electoral
centres. A security source in Aden said enormous quantities of explosives have
been seized with cells. Preliminary investigation with the cell's members
revealed that they were preparing for exploding electoral centres to fright
people from taking part in the presidential election to be held on 21 February.

Source: Yemen News Agency Saba website, Sanaa, in English 1900 gmt 18 Feb 12

LOAD-DATE: February 19, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2012 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              119 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                           The Sunday Times (London)

                            February 19, 2012 Sunday
                                   Edition 1;
                                    Ireland

Stings attacked after FBI foils 'own' terrorist plot

BYLINE: Christina Lamb

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 22

LENGTH: 502 words


WHEN Amine El Khalifi was dropped off at a car park near the famous white-domed
Capitol building on Friday, he thought he was carrying out a spectacular suicide
mission for Al-Qaeda to blow up the US Congress.

For two months, the unemployed Moroccan had been meeting repeatedly with
"Hussein", who he believed to be an Al-Qaeda operative, and an associate called
"Yusuf", discussing potential targets and planning an operation.

In fact the men were undercover FBI agents and the suicide vest they had given
him was a fake. Khalifi, 29, was arrested before he left the car park.

As news of the foiled plot broke, it seemed an impressive success by federal
agents. But it is the latest in a series of stings on alleged would-be
terrorists in the past year, and some are questioning whether undercover FBI
agents are actively provoking disaffected Muslim youth.

"There's a lot of grey areas in these cases," Karen Greenberg, a security expert
who studies sting operations, told The Washington Post. "You want to be very
sure that the narrative is not substantially provided by the government."
Khalifi arrived in America when he was 16 but overstayed his visa and had been
living as an illegal immigrant in northern Virginia. He came to the attention of
the FBI 18 months ago after being evicted from his flat. The landlord reported
him to police for receiving "mysterious packages". According to court papers,
Khalifi attended a meeting in January last year at a house in Arlington, just
outside Washington, at which he "sought to be associated with an armed extremist
group".

Last month he went with the undercover agents to a quarry in West Virginia to
practise detonating explosives. He told "Hussein" he had become more ambitious
and decided to blow up the Capitol.

They visited the building several times to formulate a plan. On Valentine's Day
the three men met in a hotel in Alexandria, south of the city, and Khalifi was
handed a jacket that he believed was packed with explosives.

On Friday he was driven to Washington in a van by "Yusuf" and another FBI agent.
They dropped him off at a car park and he began walking towards the famous white
dome. Within minutes he was arrested.

According to the Senate intelligence committee, at least 20 people have been
arrested in the past year in home-grown terrorist plots, a large increase on
previous years.

Those to target Washington have included a Bangladeshi from Massachusetts who
planned to fly model planes packed with explosives into the Pentagon, and a
Pakistani-American from Virginia who planned to blow up the Washington metro.
Both were exposed by stings.

While the authorities are determined to avoid another 9/11, leading Muslim
organisations and imams have complained repeatedly about agents' infiltration of
their mosques, charities and community groups.

"They are thwarting plots that they themselves designed," said an imam at a
Brooklyn mosque. "The hostility this causes risks damaging the positive
relations with the Muslim communities which help them."

LOAD-DATE: February 19, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Khalifi: targeted Capitol

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: STS


                    Copyright 2012 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              120 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                           The Sunday Times (London)

                            February 19, 2012 Sunday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

Israelis on global alert for terror attack by Iran

BYLINE: Uzi Mahnaimi

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 28

LENGTH: 466 words


ISRAEL is fortifying its embassies and stepping up security at Jewish
institutions worldwide after a warning that last week's attacks in Bangkok,
Delhi and Tbilisi are the start of a prolonged Iranian terror campaign.

Shin Bet, the domestic Israeli intelligence service, has dispatched teams of
former special forces soldiers to sites considered at greatest risk. In Britain
they are understood to be working in close co-operation with MI5.

The wife of an Israeli defence official based in India and her driver were
injured in one of last week's bomb attacks, which were seen as an attempt to
take revenge for the assassination of Iranian nuclear scientists. Three Iranians
have been arrested for the Thailand attack, including a suspect whose legs were
blown off, and police are seeking two others.

"One shouldn't be misled by the Iranian failure," said an Israeli security
source who stressed that the Revolutionary Guards' Quds force, which supplied
the hit squads, should not be underestimated. "They [the Iranians] are preparing
for a major attack on Israeli and Jewish entities overseas."

The Iranian president, Mahmoud Ahmadinejad, staged a show of defiance by
appearing at a research reactor last week. At the same time, Israeli sources
stressed that its clandestine war to slow Iran's progress would continue.

"The disappearance of leading Iranian scientists is not only an important part
of slowing their race to the bomb, but it also makes recovery after a possible
military strike more difficult," said one source.

Mohsen Fakhrizadeh, the head of the Iranian weaponisation project, tops Israel's
target list. Shrinking the size of a nuclear device to fit a warhead is
considered the most difficult stage in the race for nuclear weapons.

Fakhrizadeh, a senior figure in the Revolutionary Guards, is reported to have
gone into hiding to avoid Israeli assassins. His nuclear expertise is believed
to hold the key to the Iranian programme.

William Hague, the foreign secretary, warned in a newspaper interview yesterday
that there is a "crisis coming down the tracks" if Iran continues its pursuit of
nuclear weapons.

The White House is braced for a difficult meeting next month between President
Barack Obama and Binyamin Netanyahu, the Israeli prime minister, at which
Netanyahu is expected to warn the president that Israel is prepared to launch an
attack on its own, if necessary. US officials fear that could spark a regional
war before November's presidential election.

In a sign of detailed preparations for a showdown with Iran, Netanyahu signed an
agreement with Cyprus last week. According to Netanyahu's aides, Cyprus has
given permission for Israeli military jets to land there.

Such approval would be crucial if Israeli airfields were attacked by Iranian
missiles during a mission to Iran.

LOAD-DATE: February 19, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Elite Israeli forces are on alert after the Bangkok blasts
ZIV KOREN/APICHART WEERAWONG

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: STS


                    Copyright 2012 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              121 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                 BBC Monitoring Former Soviet Union - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                           February 21, 2012 Tuesday

Chief prosecutor reports increase in terror attacks in central Russia in 2011

LENGTH: 119 words


Excerpt from report by corporate-owned Russian news agency Interfax

Moscow, 21 February: Russian Prosecutor-General Yuriy Chayka is concerned by the
level of counterterrorism security on transport facilities in Russia.

"Antiterrorism security measures at facilities - especially at transport
facilities - give rise to concern. Six terror attacks were registered in the
Central Federal District last year, which was 20 per cent higher than in 2010,"
Chayka said at a meeting in Moscow. [Passage omitted]

At the same time, Chayka added, prosecutors of the Central Federal District "did
a lot to prevent extremism, to ensure transport security" in 2011.

Source: Interfax news agency, Moscow, in Russian 0709 gmt 21 Feb 12

LOAD-DATE: February 21, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2012 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              122 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                     February 21, 2012 Tuesday 5:05 PM GMT

September 11: A Saudi family, a Florida villa and the al-Qaeda death squad;
Whether the September 11 hijackers acted alone, or whether they received support
from a network of co-conspirators in the United States, remains one of the
unanswered questions of the world's most devastating terrorist attack.

BYLINE: By Anthony Summers Neil Tweedie and Dan Christensen in Miami

LENGTH: 1250 words


As soon as it became known that most of the hijackers came from Saudi Arabia,
suspicion focused on the desert kingdom. Its government swiftly condemned the
attacks but reaction on the street was different. Many Saudis were delighted by
the carnage inflicted on the United States. In a survey of Saudi professionals,
90 per cent of those questioned favoured Osama bin Laden.

For President George W Bush it was business as usual in terms of US-Saudi
relations, but US intelligence had long nurtured suspicions about America's most
important ally in the Arab world.

The demands of geopolitics overrode such concerns, however, and when the
congressional inquiry into September 11 published its report, Mr Bush insisted
that the last 28 pages, those dealing with Saudi involvement, be withheld.

Bob Graham, the inquiry's co-chairman, was incensed about what he considered the
duplicity of America's "perfidious ally". "The Saudis were facilitating,
assisting, some of the hijackers," he said. "It's my opinion that 9/11 could not
have occurred but for the existence of an infrastructure of support within the
United States."

There is evidence from California that Khalid al-Mihdhar and Nawaf al-Hazmi,
Saudi subjects and the first of the hijackers to reach the US, had probably been
helped by a Saudi diplomat and a Saudi agent. Against this backdrop are the
events said to have occurred at a gated community in Sarasota, Florida, in the
months before the attacks. The town is close to Venice Airport, where Mohamed
Atta, Marwan Al-Shehhi and Ziad Jarrah, pilots of three of the four doomed
aircraft, learned to fly.

The Prestancia community is a collection of villas set among manicured lawns,
and it was to here that Abdulaziz al-Hijji moved with his wife Anoud around the
time of their marriage in 1995. The couple's home, 4224 Escondito Circle, was
owned by Mrs al-Hijji's father, Esam Ghazzawi, an adviser to Prince Fahd bin
Salman bin Abdulaziz al Saud, nephew of King Fahd.

Mr al-Hijji spent his time studying for a course in management at the University
of South Florida. In an email to the Telegraph he described his life in Sarasota
as centred on his family. "My friends were very limited," he explained.
"Normally I don't hold parties in the house because I have little kids. I was
not a frequent to any bars."

Shortly before September 11 the al-Hijjis, residents of Prestancia for six
years, packed a few essentials and took off for Saudi Arabia, leaving behind
possessions valued at tens of thousands of pounds. "The power to the residence
was left on and there was no home or yard care," noted a report by the Florida
Department of Law Enforcement (FDLE). "A vehicle was left in the driveway, as
well as two in the garage."

"The family", another FDLE report noted, "later contacted a subject to sell the
home and its contents without leaving a forwarding address or phone number."

A friend of Mrs al-Hijji in Sarasota believes that she and her children left the
house on Aug 27, her husband having left two weeks previously. "I said goodbye
to her - he was already gone," she recalled. "We helped her take her few boxes.
Of course, it seems weird."

Mrs al-Hijji asked the friend to sell one of the cars. "We were to send them the
money, and she just disappeared."

Security logs recording vehicles visiting the al-Hijjis became the subject of
official interest. They showed that Atta and some of his accomplices visited the
house, sometimes in the early hours.

Within a month of September 11 the FBI was contacted separately by two women,
one a barmaid and one a customer at a bar in Sarasota. They said they had
befriended a group of Arab men, including Mr al-Hijji, and accepted invitations
to after-hours parties at 4224 Escondito Circle.

The barmaid, who knew Mr al-Hijji as Al, said she attended at least five
parties. She identified Atta, Al-Shehhi and Jarrah as members of the group and
admitted to having had sex with Jarrah. The female customer admitted accepting
cash after sex with a number of the men, including Atta, Al-Shehhi and Jarrah.

She also identified three other hijackers - Waleed al-Shehri, Wail al-Shehri and
Satam al-Suqami - as having been present, together with Adnan Shukrijumah, an
al-Qaeda operative who is still being hunted. There were other women at the
parties, which a counter-terrorist agent described as: "A lot of drinking.
Significant casual sex."

Now living in London, Mr al-Hijji denies any involvement with Atta and his
associates. "Never, never, never," he said. "I have a friend named Atiyah. He
came and visited once."

Mr al-Hijji said his sudden departure was necessary to secure a job at Aramco,
Saudi Arabia's state oil company. Only furniture was left and his wife later
sold the two remaining cars. He said his family had luggage and took a drive to
Tampa airport "as any normal people would do". He said that as a "young couple
living in an association full of seniors" they were subjected to gossip. "The
whole thing is degrading," he said.

The FBI denied having found any link between the Prestancia house and September
11, but in 2003 it asked an estate agent involved in its sale to convince Mr
Ghazzawi that he had to return to the US to sign documents - a ploy to detain
him for questioning. Mr Ghazzawi instead signed the forms at the American
consulate in Beirut.

The bureau did, however, interview Mrs al-Hijji and her American-born mother,
Deborah Ghazzawi, when they returned to Florida in 2003 to settle affairs. They
denied any involvement with the terrorists, saying the flights to Saudi Arabia
in the summer of 2001 had been booked well in advance.

Mr al-Hijji told the Telegraph he spent two months studying in Houston, Texas,
in 2005 but was not questioned by the FBI. When asked why the bureau should wish
to interview his relatives, he replied: "No idea".

Mr Graham, a former senator, believes the FBI is holding back information. He
had a meeting in November with Sean Joyce, the FBI deputy director, who refused
to discuss Sarasota. "I think," Graham said recently, "that in the period
immediately after 9/11 the FBI was under instructions from the Bush White House
not to discuss anything that could be embarrassing to the Saudis."

The newly-released FDLE documents, meanwhile, contain a disturbing description
of Mr al-Hijji by Wissam Hammoud, a Lebanese-born US citizen who is serving a
21-year prison sentence for attempting to murder a federal agent. In an
interview in 2004, Hammoud said he was introduced to the al-Hijjis in 1996. He
said Mr al-Hijji was once accompanied in Sarasota by a man he identified as
Shukrijumah. He claimed that Mr al-Hijji had also spoken about taking flight
training at Venice Airport.

The report on the questioning states: "Hammoud believes that al-Hijji had known
some of the terrorists from the September 11 attacks, who had been taking flight
training at Venice Airport."

Mr al-Hijji did not respond to questions about Hammoud's allegations and the
statements made by the women from the bar.

President Bush was at a reading class for six year-olds when news of the World
Trade Centre attacks was whispered into his ear. The school was in Sarasota. At
that moment, a few miles away, a family home lay abandoned. A decade on from
September 11, the mystery of what happened at 4224 Escondito Circle remains.

S Anthony Summers & Robbyn Swan are authors of The Eleventh Day, published by
Transworld. Dan Christensen is editor of Broward Bulldog, a Miami-based
investigative website.

Additional reporting by James Orr

LOAD-DATE: February 21, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTNS


                  Copyright 2012 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              123 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                       BBC Monitoring Europe - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                          February 22, 2012 Wednesday

Turkish minister says "terrorist attacks" claimed 815 personnel in 2002-11

LENGTH: 277 words


Text of report in English by Turkish newspaper Today's Zaman website on 22
February

[Unattributed report: "Interior minister: Terrorism has claimed 815 soldiers,
wounded 5,094"]

Interior Minister Idris Naim Sahin on Tuesday stated that terrorist attacks in
Turkey between 2002 and 2011 killed 815 soldiers and police officers and wounded
5,094.

"Between 2002 and 2011, 81 police and 734 soldiers were killed and 2,960 police
and 2,134 soldiers were wounded by terrorist attacks across Turkey," Sahin said
in response to a question from Nationalist Movement Party (MHP) parliamentary
group deputy chairman Mehmet Sandir during the Feb. 21 session of Parliament.
The interior minister noted that 85 citizens had been kidnapped and 75 of them
freed by the terrorist Kurdistan Workers' Party (PKK) and the terrorist Kurdish
Communities Union (KCK) since June 12 of last year.

Sahin also noted that an effective counterterrorism program prevents the
activities and objectives of terrorist organizations. He said the state is
running an effective operation against separatist terrorist organizations that
attack residents of eastern and southeastern Anatolia. Turkey is also taking
important security measures on the path towards democratization.

"Effective security measures are being taken to diminish the strength of
terrorist organizations in the region and advance steps towards
democratization," Sahin said. He added that counterterrorism is continuing
steadfastly. He mentioned that terrorism intelligence possessed by the Interior
Ministry is being shared with other relevant institutions, which is very
helpful.

Source: Zaman website, Istanbul, in English 22 Feb 12

LOAD-DATE: February 22, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2012 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              124 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                      Coventry Evening Telegraph (England)

                          February 22, 2012 Wednesday
                                Nuneaton Edition

Space terror attack could cripple UK

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 148  words


BRITAIN'S critical national infrastructure could be crippled in a high-altitude
space attack by a rogue state or terrorists, MPs have said.

A nuclear device detonated up to 500 miles above the earth's surface could
generate an electro-magnetic pulse (EMP) with a "devastating" effect on power
supplies, telecommunications and other vital systems, the Commons Defence
Committee said.

It warned that countries such as Iran - which is resisting international
pressure to end its nuclear programme - and even eventually some "non-state
actors" could acquire the technology to mount such an attack. Terrorists could
also build a "crude" non-nuclear EMP weapon, with the power to cause disruption
over a more limited area.

But despite the vulnerability of the UK to such an attack, the committee accused
the Ministry of Defence of appearing "complacent" and "unwilling to take these
threats seriously".

LOAD-DATE: February 22, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2012 Coventry Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              125 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                         The Evening Standard (London)

                          February 22, 2012 Wednesday

EMERGENCY CREWS STAGE TUBE TERROR ATTACK DRILL

BYLINE: Lee Bearton, Rob Parsons

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 252 words


THESE were the scenes today as emergency crews responded to a mocked-up terror
attack on the Tube during a security test for the Olympics.

Actors posing as passengers staggered out of the disused Aldwych station with
fake wounds as paramedics, fire crews and police dealt with the incident. They
were among the 2,500 people taking part in the exercise near the Royal Courts of
Justice.

Officials from bodies including Cobra, the top-level government committee which
sits during national emergencies, were told to treat the incident as if it were
happening on the Olympics days of August 8 and 9.

National Olympic Security  Co-ordinator Chris Allison said the two-day exercise
named Forward Defensive would test officials' ability to evacuate a station,
rescue the injured and manage the crime scene. He added: "This is part of series
of exercises which we have run in the lead-up to the Games, but this is the
first with such a significant response from the emergency services on the
ground.

"The exercise will go on to test how senior decision makers manage the impact of
the incident, the investigation to catch those responsible and a range of issues
such as travel disruption, protests and organised crime which may impact on the
smooth running of the Olympic Games."

One of the primary areas under review is the communication systems of emergency
workers. Rescue and police efforts after the July 7 bombings that killed 52
commuters in 2005 were hampered by emergency workers' inability to communicate
underground.

LOAD-DATE: February 22, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                    Copyright 2012 Evening Standard Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              126 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                          The Guardian - Final Edition

                          February 22, 2012 Wednesday

Somalia summit: Al-Shabaab: armed, violent and recruiting young Britons to its
ranks: Intelligence agencies fear fighters could return to the west to plot
terror attacks

BYLINE: Nick Hopkins Richard Norton-Taylor

SECTION: GUARDIAN HOME PAGES; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 999 words


At a court hearing on Monday in the port city of Mombasa, a young British man in
a black T-shirt stood in front of a judge and heard prosecutors claim he was a
member of a terrorist group, planning attacks against targets in Kenya.

As far as the police in Nairobi are concerned, Jermaine Grant, 29, is involved
with al-Shabaab, which has been responsible for numerous bombings in Mogadishu
and northern Somalia, and is seemingly determined to export its violence further
afield.

Grant, whose family comes from Newham, east London, may come to represent
something slightly different, to western intelligence agencies.

Over the last six years, they have monitored a number of Britons and Americans
flying to the horn of Africa, seeking al-Shabaab training camps in the vast
ungoverned spaces of Somalia, in much the same way as their counterparts did on
trips to Pakistan and Afghanistan in the 1990s.

The agencies believe about 200 foreigners, perhaps Grant included, have helped
al-Shabaab wage an insurgency in Somalia, and plot attacks on other western
targets in neighbouring countries.

But what they haven't seen - yet - is these people returning home, and bringing
terror with them. The experience of Iraq and Afghanistan suggests it may only be
a matter of time before another circle of this kind is complete.

The problems posed by al-Shabaab to the security of Somalia, and the knock-on
effects for the west, will be part of the discussions at this week's London
conference, but there are no easy solutions, and lots of potential pitfalls.

Al-Shabaab, which means "the youth" in Arabic, is not Osama bin Laden's
al-Qaida. It evolved into a clan-based Islamic insurgency that became prominent
in southern Somalia in 2006, rebelling against the country's Transitional
Federal Government (TFG) and its Ethiopian and western supporters.

It is estimated to have only a few hundred core members, but has recruited up to
6,000 soldiers, sometimes forcibly.

Experts say the group is nominally led by Sheikh Mohamed Mukhtar Abdirahman -
"Abu Zubeyr" - but most analysts insist it is a disparate coalition with
divisions at all levels.

Some of the deepest fissures are ideological; between those whose aims are
essentially domestic, and those who have adopted broader ambitions for jihad,
similar to those of al-Qaida.

Recently, the 10,000 strong African-Union backed military mission (Amison) has
been pushing back against the group, which has also been squeezed from the south
by 2,000 Kenyan troops invading the country last October.

But Anna Rader, from the Royal United Services Institute (RUSI) thinktank in
London, warns the insurgency is resilient.

"It has shown an ability to adapt and evolve over the years, and it has shown
that it becomes more coherent under pressure. It is a pragmatic group."

Last week, the group claimed responsibility for a car bombing in the capital
Mogadishu - via a Twitter feed (@HSMPress) that has thousands of followers.

There is talk of increasing the cohort of Amison troops to 20,000; some say a
force like that might crush al-Shabaab - others that it will galvanise and
reinvigorate its followers against what is seen as the west's proxy army.

The US and British intelligence agencies are concerned about al-Shabaab
developing links with other al-Qaida affiliates, particularly AQAP (al-Qaida in
the Arab Peninsula), and spreading Islamist-inspired extremism to west Africa,
including Nigeria, where some militants have declared links with al-Qaida.

Andre Le Sage, a leading authority on al-Shabaab at the National Defense
University in Washington, recently told the New York Times: "What I'd be most
concerned about is whether AQAP could transfer to Shabab its knowledge of
building IEDs (improvised explosive devices) and sophisticated plots and Shabaab
could make available to AQAP recruits with Western passports."

But what can the west do to contain al-Shabaab, which exists in a lawless
country that has been tearing itself apart for the best part of 20 years?

The US has spent an estimated $500m (£315m) to train and support east African
forces, and a Special Operations Command unit has been orchestrating missile
strikes from drones, including one last month on the outskirts of Mogadishu that
killed an alleged al-Qaida member from London, 27-year-old Bilal el-Berjawi.

Attempts are being made to squeeze funding for the group, some of which comes
from the Somali diaspora in the US, the UK, Sweden, Germany and Australia.

The number of foreigners known to have gone to camps in Somalia is still small.

They include at least 40 from the US, and a similar number from the UK. Grant is
facing trial on charges that he denies. Another British woman, travelling under
the name of Natalie Faye Webb, 26, is on a Kenyan wanted list.

Though the al-Shabaab camps are not on the scale of those seen a decade ago, the
National Security Council has been warned that it only takes one extremist to
return home unnoticed to create potential havoc.

With this in mind, David Cameron has ramped up the rhetoric in recent months,
calling Somalia "a failed state that directly threatens British interests".

Shortly before Christmas, chief of the defence staff, General Sir David
Richards, made the most intriguing comments of all - with words that suggested
some kind of more direct military intervention by the UK is being considered.

Talking to an audience at RUSI, he reflected on the campaign in Libya, and then
turned to Somalia.

"While we were essentially able to rely on Arab partners and the National
Transitional Council in Libya, and can assist, for example, Amisom's vital
mission in Somalia indirectly, it would be foolhardy indeed and against all the
lessons of history to imagine that we will never deploy combat troops again".

Captions:

Jermaine Grant has been held in Kenya

Shadow of the gun

An al-Shabaab militant in front of a rally called by the group on the outskirts
of Mogadishu. The group is believed to contain small numbers of recruits from
Britain and the US

Photograph: AP

LOAD-DATE: February 22, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2012 Guardian Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              127 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                    February 22, 2012 Wednesday 5:21 PM GMT

Major Olympic security exercise takes place in London;
The emergency services have been out in force on the streets of the capital
training for the "worst case scenario" of a terrorist attack on the London
Underground during the Olympics.

LENGTH: 109 words


The disused Aldwych station, a stone's throw from central London's Royal Courts
of Justice, has been the scene of the live test which is being staged as if it
is August 8 and 9 - two busy days during the Olympics .

Mayor of London Boris Johnson said that the exercise was made public because "it
was going to be so big."

Some 2,500 people - spanning everyone from constables to Cobra, the top level
Government committee which sits during national emergencies and crisis, are
being put through their paces by the two-day test.

Home Secretary Theresa May said that the test was "a very useful exercise."

"We're not complacent, so we keep on testing," she said.

LOAD-DATE: February 22, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTNS


                  Copyright 2012 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              128 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                    February 22, 2012 Wednesday 9:11 AM GMT

Britain at risk from 'GoldenEye' electromagnetic pulse attack from space, MPs
warn;
Britain's critical national infrastructure could be crippled in a high-altitude
space attack by a rogue state or terrorists, MPs have warned.

BYLINE: By Matthew Holehouse

LENGTH: 974 words


A nuclear device detonated up to 500 miles above the earth's surface could
generate an electro-magnetic pulse (EMP) with a "devastating" effect on power
supplies, telecommunications and other vital systems, the Commons Defence
Committee said.

It warned that countries such as Iran - which is resisting international
pressure to end its nuclear programme - and even eventually some "non-state
actors" could acquire the technology to mount such an attack, in a scenario akin
to the plot of the 1995 James Bond film 'GoldenEye'.

Terrorists could also build a "crude" non-nuclear EMP weapon, with the power to
cause disruption over a more limited area.

But despite the vulnerability of the UK to such an attack, the committee accused
the Ministry of Defence of appearing "complacent" and "unwilling to take these
threats seriously".

It said ministers should start work on "hardening" the infrastructure to protect
against an EMP attack "as a matter of urgency".

"It is time that the Government began to approach this matter with the
seriousness it deserves," it said.

The committee said the Government currently rated the probability of a
high-altitude EMP attack as "low", although it acknowledged that the impact
would be severe.

However, an official EMP commission in the United States found "rogue states"
such as Iran and nuclear-armed North Korea were well aware of the potential for
such an attack.

The Iranians in particular were reported to have conducted missile tests which
appeared to simulate the effects of an EMP nuclear strike.

The Americans concluded that in the event of such an attack, the widespread
collapse of the electrical power system was "virtually inevitable".

"Certain states such as Iran could potentially pose a realistic threat in the
future, even if it does not currently do so, if nuclear non-proliferation
efforts are not successful. Non-state actors could also pose a threat," the
committee said.

"While the risk may at present be low, the potential impact of such a weapon
could be devastating and long-lasting for UK infrastructure. The Government
cannot therefore be complacent about this threat and must keep its assessment of
the risk under review.

"It is therefore vitally important that the work of hardening UK infrastructure
is begun now and carried out as a matter of urgency."

James Arbuthnot, chairman of the defence select committee, called on key
infrastructure to fit 'hardened' microchips resistant to EMP attack.

"I personally believe that it is quite likely to happen, because it is a
comparatively easy way of using a small number of nuclear weapons to cause
devastating damage.

"The consequences if it did happen would be so devastating that we really ought
to start protecting against it now. Our vulnerabilities are huge.

He told BBC Radio 4's Today programme: "It would have a far more devastating
impact to use a nuclear weapon in this way than to explode a bomb in or on a
city. It would, over a much wider area, take out things like the National Grid
on which we all rely for almost everything. It would take out the water system
and the sewage system. Rapidly it would become very difficult to live in cities
- within a matter of days."

"The defence is to build up the resilience of the electronic infrastructure by
gradually replacing the incredibly delicate and vulnerable systems and chips and
connections with the more hardened systems that are available at a not very
expensive price during your routine maintenance.

"I wish the Government would address this with rather more energy, cohesion and
focus."

It is not only EMP weapons that have the power to wreak havoc. The committee
said a naturally occurring "space weather event" caused by changing conditions
in the sun's atmosphere could have a similar effect.

The most severe example - known as the Carrington event after the astronomer who
observed it - occurred in 1859 when a massive solar flare sent enormous
electrical currents surging through telegraph systems causing shocks to
telegraph operators and setting fire to papers.

Scientists at Nasa recorded a huge solar flare caused by a large magnetic
eruption in February this year

In 1989 the entire power grid in the Canadian province of Quebec collapsed in a
matter of just 90 seconds after stabilising equipment failed to cope with the
effects of a geomagnetic storm.

The likelihood a severe space weather event occurring over the next five years
is currently assessed by the Government as being "moderate to high", the
committee said.

The National Grid has estimated that if there was another Carrington-sized
event, there was a 91% chance that an area of the UK would be left without power
for two months or more while essential satellite systems could also be damaged

The committee said it was now vital the Government ensured back-up procedures
and equipment were in place to meet the "reasonable worst-case scenario" for a
severe space weather event.

It said ministers should also consider the practicability and cost of
establishing resilience against a widespread loss of transformers, as could
occur in an EMP attack.

"The potential threats of a Carrington-size space weather event or a
high-altitude nuclear EMP weapon would have specific and potentially devastating
impacts upon the electrical grid and other aspects of electronic infrastructure,
which play an absolutely critical role in UK society," it said.

"It is therefore vital that the electrical grid is resilient as possible to
potential threats such as these."

A Government spokesman said: "We take these threats seriously, and
proportionately, and are considering the Defence Committee report carefully. We
shall respond fully in due course.

"Many of the points it raises are already coordinated across government and will
be covered by the National Space Security Policy expected later this year."

LOAD-DATE: February 22, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTNS


                  Copyright 2012 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              129 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                    February 22, 2012 Wednesday 6:58 AM GMT

Britain at risk from 'GoldenEye' pulse attack, MPs warn;
Britain's critical national infrastructure could be crippled in a high-altitude
space attack by a rogue state or terrorists, MPs have warned.

BYLINE: By Matthew Holehouse

LENGTH: 748 words


A nuclear device detonated up to 500 miles above the earth's surface could
generate an electro-magnetic pulse (EMP) with a "devastating" effect on power
supplies, telecommunications and other vital systems, the Commons Defence
Committee said.

It warned that countries such as Iran - which is resisting international
pressure to end its nuclear programme - and even eventually some "non-state
actors" could acquire the technology to mount such an attack, in a scenario akin
to the plot of the 1995 James Bond film 'GoldenEye'.

Terrorists could also build a "crude" non-nuclear EMP weapon, with the power to
cause disruption over a more limited area.

But despite the vulnerability of the UK to such an attack, the committee accused
the Ministry of Defence of appearing "complacent" and "unwilling to take these
threats seriously".

It said ministers should start work on "hardening" the infrastructure to protect
against an EMP attack "as a matter of urgency".

"It is time that the Government began to approach this matter with the
seriousness it deserves," it said.

The committee said the Government currently rated the probability of a
high-altitude EMP attack as "low", although it acknowledged that the impact
would be severe.

However, an official EMP commission in the United States found "rogue states"
such as Iran and nuclear-armed North Korea were well aware of the potential for
such an attack.

The Iranians in particular were reported to have conducted missile tests which
appeared to simulate the effects of an EMP nuclear strike.

The Americans concluded that in the event of such an attack, the widespread
collapse of the electrical power system was "virtually inevitable".

"Certain states such as Iran could potentially pose a realistic threat in the
future, even if it does not currently do so, if nuclear non-proliferation
efforts are not successful. Non-state actors could also pose a threat," the
committee said.

"While the risk may at present be low, the potential impact of such a weapon
could be devastating and long-lasting for UK infrastructure. The Government
cannot therefore be complacent about this threat and must keep its assessment of
the risk under review.

"It is therefore vitally important that the work of hardening UK infrastructure
is begun now and carried out as a matter of urgency."

It is not only EMP weapons that have the power to wreak havoc. The committee
said a naturally occurring "space weather event" caused by changing conditions
in the sun's atmosphere could have a similar effect.

The most severe example - known as the Carrington event after the astronomer who
observed it - occurred in 1859 when a massive solar flare sent enormous
electrical currents surging through telegraph systems causing shocks to
telegraph operators and setting fire to papers.

In 1989 the entire power grid in the Canadian province of Quebec collapsed in a
matter of just 90 seconds after stabilising equipment failed to cope with the
effects of a geomagnetic storm.

The likelihood a severe space weather event occurring over the next five years
is currently assessed by the Government as being "moderate to high", the
committee said.

The National Grid has estimated that if there was another Carrington-sized
event, there was a 91% chance that an area of the UK would be left without power
for two months or more while essential satellite systems could also be damaged

The committee said it was now vital the Government ensured back-up procedures
and equipment were in place to meet the "reasonable worst-case scenario" for a
severe space weather event.

It said ministers should also consider the practicability and cost of
establishing resilience against a widespread loss of transformers, as could
occur in an EMP attack.

"The potential threats of a Carrington-size space weather event or a
high-altitude nuclear EMP weapon would have specific and potentially devastating
impacts upon the electrical grid and other aspects of electronic infrastructure,
which play an absolutely critical role in UK society," it said.

"It is therefore vital that the electrical grid is resilient as possible to
potential threats such as these."

A Government spokesman said: "We take these threats seriously, and
proportionately, and are considering the Defence Committee report carefully. We
shall respond fully in due course.

"Many of the points it raises are already coordinated across government and will
be covered by the National Space Security Policy expected later this year."

LOAD-DATE: February 22, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTNS


                  Copyright 2012 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              130 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                       BBC Monitoring Trans Caucasus Unit
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                           February 23, 2012 Thursday

Iran denies involvement in anti-Israeli terrorist attacks

LENGTH: 369 words


Text of report in English by Iranian news channel Press TV website on 23
February

23 February: Iran has delivered a protest note to the UN Security Council
(UNSC), condemning Israel for carrying out a host of hostile activities with
"impunity" against the Islamic Republic.

In a protest letter on Wednesday [22 February], Iran's Ambassador to the UN
Mohammad Khaza'i censured Israel's countless acts of crime against Tehran,
saying Tel Aviv has carried out "covert operations, cyber warfare, psychological
war and assassinations of nuclear scientists," on top of threatening to wage a
war on Iran.

"These operations, as well as attributing the violent acts, are part of the
general war game waged by this regime against Iran," the letter added.

"Regrettably, the impunity with which the (Israeli) regime has been allowed to
carry out its crimes thus far, has emboldened it to continue and even increase
its blatant defiance of the most basic and fundamental principles of
international law and the United Nations Charter," it went on to read.

Khaza'i also made reference to a string of recent bomb attacks on Israeli
diplomatic targets in several countries and refuted Tel Aviv's allegations that
Iran was involved in the incidents.

Iran "categorically rejects the allegations concerning any involvement of its
officials or organizations in the recent purported terrorist operations against
Israeli targets in a number of countries, namely Thailand, India, Georgia or
Azerbaijan," the envoy's letter further said.

On 14 February, a man hurled a grenade at Thai police and a cab in Bangkok. The
attacker was injured seriously in the blast. Bangkok police say they found
Iranian identification documents on the maimed man.

Earlier in the day, a house rented by three men, who police say were Iranians,
exploded when a cache of explosives reportedly went off by accident. Soon
afterwards, there was a third blast on a nearby road, Thai police said.

The three explosions in Bangkok happened a day after bomb attacks targeted
Israeli embassy staff in India and Georgia.

Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu was swift to accuse Iran of
orchestrating the attacks.

Source: Press TV website, Tehran, in English 0735 gmt 23 Feb 12

LOAD-DATE: February 23, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2012 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              131 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring Middle East - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                           February 23, 2012 Thursday

Iran deplores coordinated wave of terrorist attacks in Iraq

LENGTH: 238 words


Text of report in English by Iranian official government news agency IRNA
website

Tehran, 23 February: Deputy Foreign Minister for Middle East and Africa Hussein
Amir Abdollahian on Thursday [23 February] condemned wave of the terrorist
explosions in Iraq which killed scores of innocent people and wounded 200 more.

He said the carnage has been coordinated by certain parties of Iraqi disputes
happened in a form of terrorist attacks.

Abdollahian said that the Islamic Republic of Iran is confident that the
resilient Iraqi people and the learned government and nation will vigorously
continue their struggles for the consolidation of peace and stability in their
country.

"I am sure the elected Prime Minister Nuri al-Maleki's office will vigilantly
nullify such organized actions with the help of Iraqi police and security
forces,' he added.

Car-bombings and suicide attacks on Shi'i targets on Thursday killed at least 60
people and injured 200 more, Iraqi Interior Ministry said.

It said they think the attacks were a coordinated terrorism against Shi'i
population. No group claimed responsibility.

IRNA reporter in Baghdad said that the majority of the attacks occurred during
the morning rush hours at the Shi'i neighbourhood.

'Wave of the bombings and other attacks took about two and a half hours and
there is fear of death toll may rise.'

Source: Islamic Republic News Agency website, Tehran, in English 1505 gmt 23 Feb
12

LOAD-DATE: February 23, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2012 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              132 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                            Manchester Evening News

                           February 23, 2012 Thursday

Man in petrol attack terror

BYLINE: WFnode

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 90 words


BOLTON Arsonists poured petrol through a man's letterbox and set it alight while
he was in bed.

Police are hunting two men over the attack on a house in Centenary Court, Great
Lever.

The 43-year-old victim heard a noise at his front door and saw two men pouring
the petrol in. One was white, stocky and had a shaved, a tattoo on his neck and
a chunky gold chain.

The other was white,

25-30, 5ft 9in, with a small nose, pointed chin and a grey hooded top. Anyone
with information can call Bolton CID on 0161 856 5756 or Crimestoppers on 0800
555 111.

LOAD-DATE: February 24, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2012 Manchester Evening News
                              All Rights Reserved

                              133 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                    BBC Monitoring Asia Pacific - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                            February 24, 2012 Friday

South Korean police vow to secure upcoming nuclear summit from terror attacks

LENGTH: 392 words


Text of report in English by South Korean news agency Yonhap

Seoul, 24 February: The chief of the Seoul police agency vowed Friday [24
February] to make the utmost effort to battle potential terrorist attacks as the
country prepares to host a global nuclear security meeting next month.

"Fifty-eight heads of state and international organization chiefs will attend
the meeting, a higher number of participants than when the country's 2010 G-20
meeting brought together 26 heads," Lee Kang-deok, the commissioner of the Seoul
Metropolitan Police Agency said in an interview with Yonhap News Agency.

South Korea is scheduled to host the Nuclear Security Summit on 26 and 27 March
at the COEX convention center in southern Seoul.

North Korea or other local or foreign entities could target the nuclear summit
for terrorist attacks as it will bring together a record amount of state heads
at one time, the Seoul police chief said. "Special police forces will be put in
forward deployment at the event venue and security activities will be
strengthened in subway stations, bus terminals and train stations."

A previous police report predicted the South's hosting of the Nuclear Security
Summit in March and the general and presidential elections in April and
December, respectively, could prompt the North to launch military provocations.

The police are also pushing to adopt temporary measures to help ease traffic
jams expected to worsen near event areas during the hosting of the summit.

The police plan to encourage drivers to use public transportations during the
two-day meeting and to seek the cooperation of transportation authorities to
increase the number of subway and bus services to lessen the expected traffic
congestion, Lee said.

He also called for citizens' cooperation in police efforts to curb illegal
protests or demonstrations against the global summit.

"We plan to allow to the maximum level of peaceful, legal rallies and protests
in areas not overlapping the (restricted) areas under police escort activities.
However, we will sternly respond to those who come to the scene with the goal of
obstructing the event or who launch guerrilla protests or use violence near the
quarters of state heads or along the routes (between the accommodation and event
venues)," the commissioner said.

Source: Yonhap news agency, Seoul, in English 0156gmt 24 Feb 12

LOAD-DATE: February 24, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2012 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              134 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring Middle East - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                            February 24, 2012 Friday

Israeli airforce attacks Palestinian "terrorist targets" in Gaza

LENGTH: 109 words


Text of report by Israeli public radio station Voice of Israel Network B on 24
February

Another two rockets were fired this morning at the Eshkol region. Our
correspondent Nisim Keinan reports that no injuries or damage were reported.

Early this morning the Israel air force attacked two terrorist targets in the
northern Gaza Strip. Direct hits were identified. During the night the air force
prevented rocket fire after attacking a squad that was preparing to fire.

Yesterday evening, Palestinians fired a rocket and a mortar shell at the western
Negev. No injuries or damage were reported.

Source: Voice of Israel, Jerusalem, in Hebrew 0600 gmt 24 Feb 12

LOAD-DATE: February 24, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2012 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              135 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring South Asia - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                           February 25, 2012 Saturday

Northwest Pakistan minister blames US strikes for fresh terror attacks

LENGTH: 727 words


Text of report headlined "KP government blames fresh wave of terrorism on drone
strikes" published by Pakistani newspaper Dawn website on 25 February

Peshawar, 24 February: Khyber Pakhtunkhwa information minister Mian Iftikhar
Hussain on Friday said the latest terrorist attacks in Peshawar were in reprisal
for the US drone strikes in Federally Administered Tribal Areas.

Addressing a news conference here on Friday after suicide attacks against a
Peshawar police station, the minister condemned the terrorist assault but
regretted that Pakistan had already warned the US that drone strikes were
detrimental to its interests."The Taliban are currently negotiating with the US
and therefore, they should take up the drone attack issue with the Americans
instead of carrying out retaliatory strikes in Pakistan," he said.

Mr Iftikhar said terrorist attacks in Peshawar had been carried out to pressure
Pakistan in line with Taliban's international agenda. He said his government
wouldn't succumb to the terrorists' pressure tactics and would fight them out.

"We are opposed to drone strikes and consider them an attack on our
sovereignty," he said, adding that instead of targeting terrorist hideouts on
its own, the US should share drone technology with Pakistan.

The minister said the Peshawar police station bombers wanted to take the 200
plus personnel hostage for dictating their terms to the government.

"One of the attackers managed to take position on rooftop, second accessed
kitchen and the third entered dinning hall, but they all were eliminated by
police in a half-an-hour encounter," he said.

He said the government had a firm belied not to yield to terrorists and that its
'jihad' against them would continue. He, however, said without establishing an
air of mutual trust among Pakistan, Afghanistan and the US, talks with the
Taliban couldn't succeed.

Mr Iftikhar denied the possible privatisation of the provincial government-owned
Bank of Khyber and said no such plan had been made.

He said the government was working on selling 19 per cent of the bank's equity
shares to raise money to pay a Rs3 billion federal government loan that had been
taken to fulfill the State Bank of Pakistan's minimum capital requirements."BoK
is not being privatised. Only its management will be transferred to the private
sector without losing the provincial government's majority shares," said the
minister, who was accompanied by finance minister Hamayun Khan and finance
secretary.

He said sales of the provincial government's 19 per cent share would bring down
its equity share from current 70 per cent to 51 per cent and that the government
after disposing of a part of its shares would have five members in the bank's
board of directors.

"How can we privatise the bank after we made it a profitable entity," he said,
rejecting media reports that suggest that BoK's headquarters is to be shifted to
Karachi, while its name will be changed after sell-off.

Mr Iftikhar said his government was pursuing a policy of increasing BoK's branch
network. He said the number of BoK's branches had increased from 34 to 62 and
the government intended to increase it to a total of 78 countrywide branches'
network, he added.

Meanwhile, Khyber Pakhtunkhwa governor Masood Kausar also condemned the Friday
Peshawar attack and praised policemen for thwarting terrorists' designs by
rendering their lives.

"It (defence by police) speaks (about) the high standard of their professional
competency, capabilities, spirit and courage and we feel proud of them," he was
quoted as saying in a news release.

Also, provincial Chief Minister Ameer Haider Khan Hoti condemned the bombings of
the police station and said the recent wave of terrorism was meant to harass
people and demoralise police that spearheaded a battle to eliminate militancy
from the region, APP reported.

Talking to reporters after attending the funeral of the policemen, who died in
the attack, he praised personnel for thwarting the terrorists' attempt to hold
police station staff hostage by renderin g their lives.

He said the US drone attacks in Fata won't help eliminate terrorism.

Speaker of the provincial assembly Kiramatullah Khan, senior minister Rahim Dad
Khan, information minister Mian Iftikhar Hussain and senior police and
government officials were also in attendance.

Source: Dawn website, Karachi, in English 25 Feb 12

LOAD-DATE: February 25, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2012 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              136 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                 Sunday Mirror

                            February 26, 2012 Sunday
                                  Eire Edition

FEAR OF NUCLEAR TERROR ATTACK

BYLINE: WILL STEWART ; DOMINIC HERBERT

SECTION: SPORT; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 288 words


EURO 2012 hosts Ukraine are stocking up on radiation detectors amid fears of a
nuclear "dirty bomb" attack on the tournament.

The ex-Soviet state has turned to international experts for help after warnings
that it is vulnerable to attacks from Islamist extremists.

We can reveal that the US has supplied a batch of sophisticated radioactivity
detection devices for use in the tournament, which kicks off in June. And it is
understood that NATO carried out a "threat assessment" mission even though
Ukraine is not a member of the Alliance.

Tens of thousands of Ireland fans are expected to travel to Poland which is
co-hosting the tournament with neighbouring Ukraine.

Police from Britain and other nations taking part in the football tournament
were briefed on the security me as -ures at a secret summit last week.

The International Atomic Energy Agency has confirmed it is assisting in the
detection of radioactive materials.

A spokesman for the organisation, a UN body which is training firefighters,
police and border guards, said: "There is always a risk that major public events
could be targeted for criminal acts involving nuclear and radioactive
materials."

The American ambassador to Kiev confirmed the US was handing over 13
dosimeterradiometers, used to detect nuclear or radiological materials. Ukraine
became a major nuclear power when the USSR collapsed and a number of worrying
radioactive smuggling incidents have occurred in ex-Soviet countries.

Volodymyr Orativskyy of the Ukranian secret service's anti- terrorism centre,
said the country is vulnerable due to the presence of "supporters of
international terrorist and religious extremist organisations". He added: "We
have hazardous industrial and energy facilities."

LOAD-DATE: February 27, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Risk... Republic of Ireland fans

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                            Copyright 2012 MGN Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              137 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                 BBC Monitoring Former Soviet Union - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                            February 27, 2012 Monday

Russian, Ukrainian special service thwart planned terror attack on Putin - TV

LENGTH: 998 words


Text of report by state-controlled Russian Channel One TV on 27 February

[Presenter] Russian and Ukrainian special services were able to thwart terrorist
plans for an attempt on the life of Vladimir Putin. Gang members who were on the
international wanted list were detained in Odessa [in Ukraine] at the beginning
of this year. Judging by the uncovered evidence and the criminals' testimony,
there were sheer weeks until the blasts in Moscow. The terror attacks were set
to take place straight after the presidential election. The investigation
continues. Anton Vernitskiy brings the first details of the results.

[Correspondent] A run-of-the-mill Odessa courtyard. When a blast went off in one
of the flats here straight after the New Year's holidays on 4 January,
fire-fighters thought that it was a household gas explosion at first. But just
two days later, on 6 January, Ukrainian security services sent an urgent
telegram to their colleagues from the Russian FSB [Federal Security Service].

One of the people who was renting out the flat was killed in the explosion.
Another man, who received burns in the blast, was rescued. He was questioned
immediately, since bits of explosives were found among his belongings. Judging
by the testimony of the survivor, Ilya Pyanzin, he came to Ukraine with the
deceased Ruslan Madayev from the Arab Emirates via Turkey, with clear
instructions from Doku Umarov.

[Video shows man speaking to a presumed investigator, who is not seen on-screen,
with a caption that reads "Questioning of Ilya Pyanzin". Typing can be heard]
They told us that we would go to Odessa to begin with, learn how to make bombs.
And then later in Moscow, you would carry out attacks at economic facilities.
Further on, there would be an attempt on Putin's life. Then we came to Odessa.
Ruslan was given the number of a man who was supposed to meet us.

[Correspondent] This is how a third man, who managed to escape during the fire,
became known. From then on, Russian and Ukrainian special services began working
together - and very effectively. The third gang member was detained by the
Ukrainian spetsnaz [special police].

[Video captioned as "SBU [Security Service of Ukraine] Footage" shows a building
being stormed by SBU-uniformed officers, who are then shown carrying out a raid
inside the building. A man crouching on the floor is shown, with an off-camera
voice, belonging to one of the members of the operation team, saying: "Lift your
head, name yourself!" The man lifts his head, his face is covered with what
looks like blood and replies: "Osmayev, Adam"]

[Correspondent] A pre-trial detention centre at the Ukrainian security service
in Odessa. Osmayev, who has been on the international wanted list, is eagerly
cooperating with investigators in the hope that this will help avoid extradition
to Russia.

[Video shows Osmayev, captioned, in an unidentified room against a white
background, his face now covered in patches of what appears to be brilliant
green antiseptic, speaking to the camera, with an off-screen correspondent
asking him questions. Video shows close-ups of his face and his hands, in
bandages.]

[Osmayev] The ultimate goal was to arrive in Moscow and make an attempt on the
life of Prime Minister Putin.

[Correspondent] Did you have some sort of plan?

[Osmayev] There are these military-type mines, which are called antitank mines.
So there is no need for [trails off].

[Correspondent] So you would not have a suicide bomber? You would not go
yourself?

[Osmayev] I would not go.

[Correspondent] What about your [trails off]?

[Osmayev] The man who died was ready to be a suicide bomber.

[Correspondent] It was precisely Osmayev, who spent a long time living abroad,
in London, who was the communicator and instructor for the terrorists in Odessa.
He had to instruct them and send them to Moscow. Officers found the entire plan
of action in his laptop. [Video shows photos of a smiling Osmayev, his laptop
computer with photos and video.]

[Man with his back to the camera, captioned as "FSB officer", pointing to a
laptop that shows blurry video of what is presumably Putin and his entourage
huddled around a car] This includes files with the named video with the passing
of the cortege, specifically that of Putin. To get an understanding of how the
protected person gets in, how many cars accompany him. From different angles,
different streets. So that people were not instructed in a simple way, with just
one example, but with several.

[Correspondent] Some of the fuses and explosives were brought into the capital
ahead of time, together with the explosives that were packed into the car that
was de-mined by FSB officers on Moscow's Profsoyuznaya ulitsa [street] back in
May 2007. In the hope of getting concessions, Osmayev himself revealed the
storage site, close to Kutuzovskiy prospekt [avenue] in Moscow. [Video shows
presumable explosive parts, shots of unidentified areas of Moscow with a train
passing nearby.]

[Correspondent speaking to a man with his back to the camera, captioned as "FSB
officer"] Would it have been a powerful explosion?

[FSB officer] Yes, a pretty significant explosion. Enough to tear apart a cargo
truck.

[Correspondent] Adam Osmayev does not deny that he thoroughly studied the paths
that government corteges charted around Moscow. And admitted that preparations
for the terror attack were already in the home stretch.

[Osmayev, in the same correspondent interview as before] The deadline was set
for after the election of the president of Russia. [Video then shows Osmayev
being escorted out of what was actually a cell where he was speaking to the
correspondent by uniformed SBU officers]

[Correspondent] Russian and Ukrainian special services are continuing their
investigation of this case.

[The Russian news agency Interfax reported at 0518 gmt on 27 February that
Putin's press secretary Dmitriy Peskov "did not deny this information, but
offered no comment".]

Source: Channel One TV, Moscow, in Russian 0500 gmt 27 Feb 12

LOAD-DATE: February 27, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2012 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              138 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                      February 27, 2012 Monday 5:41 PM GMT

Sixty killed in Iraq terrorist attack

BYLINE: By Adrian Blomfield

LENGTH: 352 words


SUSPECTED al-Qaeda militants unleashed a wave of terror across Baghdad and 11
other Iraqi cities last Thursday, killing at least 60 people in attacks on
government buildings, security forces, restaurants and a primary school.

The deadliest violence in more than six weeks renewed fears that Iraq is once
again in danger of being engulfed in the sectarian turmoil that nearly tipped it
into civil war at the height of the insurgency against US forces several years
ago.

The co-ordination and sophistication of the attacks bore the hallmarks of the
Islamic State of Iraq, an umbrella group for Sunni militants linked to al-Qaeda
whose resurgence coincided with the withdrawal of the last US troops from the
country in December.

Operating with a level of impunity that angered many Iraqis, the militants
carried out more than 30 attacks. Baghdad bore the brunt of the bloodshed, with
shootings and bombings in the capital for more than four hours.

Much of the violence was directed at civilians, many of them members of Iraq's
Shia majority. In the single deadliest incident, a car bomb exploded in the
shopping district of Karradah, killing nine people.

More than 30 people died in the capital, where the targets included an ice cream
shop and a street lined with restaurants filled with people having morning
coffees.

In Musayyib, south of Baghdad, a bomb exploded in an alleyway between a
restaurant and a primary school. One person was killed and more than 60 wounded,
the majority of them children.

Government forces appeared overwhelmed. Army checkpoints, police patrols and
even the houses of individual officers came under attack by both bombers and
gunmen.

The failure to control a surge of violence over recent months has frustrated
many Iraqis, who hoped that such intense violence was a thing of the past.

"What is happening today is not simply security violations," said Ahmed
al-Tamimi, a government employee. "It is a huge security failure and disaster.

"We want to know: what were the thousands of policemen and soldiers doing in
Baghdad today while the terrorists were roaming the city and spreading
violence?"

LOAD-DATE: February 27, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTNS


                  Copyright 2012 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              139 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring South Asia - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                           February 28, 2012 Tuesday

Indian probe hints at Iran-backed terror group behind Israeli diplomat attack

LENGTH: 280 words


Text of report headlined "13/2: Finger points to Iran" published by Indian
newspaper The Asian Age website on 28 February

New Delhi: Top intelligence and security officials involved in investigating the
13/2 magnetic bomb attack on Israeli diplomat Tal Yehoshua indicated Monday that
the needle of suspicion was pointing toward a Iranian-back terrorist outfit. New
Delhi is, however, waiting for further evidence before conveying this to Tehran.

The Indian investigating agencies rubbished claims in the Israeli media that
though the case was cracked, clearly highlighting Iranian involvement, they were
deliberately keeping it under wraps due to India's good diplomatic relations
with Iran. Sources said categorically the case was far from solved.

Government sources said New Delhi was in no hurry to put the blame at Iran's
doorstep till the investigation was over and foolproof evidence obtained. The
investigations were reviewed in the highest quarters of the government Monday,
with even the national security adviser kept informed given the strong
diplomatic backlash the case might invite.

A senior official said: "There is no denying that we have made significant
progress, with some indications pointing towards an Iranian-backed outfit with
support from a local module. But there is no concrete evidence to support this.
In any investigation, specially in such a sensitive case, things keep changing
... What if this theory turns on its head once the probe is over. Look at what
happened in the Malegaon blast case."

Sources said there were some leads pointing to the actual bomber, which were
being aggressively pursued.

Source: The Asian Age website, Delhi, in English 28 Feb 12

LOAD-DATE: February 28, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2012 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              140 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                   The Mirror

                           February 28, 2012 Tuesday
                                 Ulster Edition

PATERSON HAILS FOILED ATTACK BIDS;
TERRORISM

BYLINE: MIRROR REPORTER

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 19

LENGTH: 141 words


THE security forces have foiled "many" terrorist plots in the past six months,
the Government said yesterday.

Secretary of State Owen Paterson added there were still 13 attacks against
"national security targets" in Northern Ireland since August, including a bid to
murder a soldier.

He told MPs: "While there were fewer attacks in 2011 than 2010, the intent and
capability of dissident republican terrorists remains high. "At present the
threat appears to have stabilised as a result of the activities of security and
law-enforcement agencies."

But he warned an attack in Northern Ireland was "highly likely" with the threat
rated severe - one below the maximum.

Mr Paterson said the 13 attacks included those on police officers as well as
small bombs used to target a bank in Newry, Co Down, and explosives aimed at the
City of Culture offices in Derry.

LOAD-DATE: February 28, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: WARNING J Owen Paterson

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                            Copyright 2012 MGN Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              141 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                     February 28, 2012 Tuesday 8:49 PM GMT

September 11 victims' remains dumped in landfill;
Remains of victims of the September 11 terrorist attacks were dumped in a
landfill, it has emerged.

BYLINE: By Jon Swaine Raf Sanchez in Washington

LENGTH: 502 words


Small traces of the bodies of people killed when The Pentagon was attacked and
when a plane crash-landed in Pennsylvania were transported there after being
incinerated, according to a report by The Washington Post .

The practice was disclosed by an inquiry ordered by Leon Panetta, the US
secretary of defence, into previous reports that the remains of US troops killed
in Iraq and Afghanistan were similarly dumped .

It "began shortly after September 11, 2001, when several portions of remains
from the Pentagon attack and the Shanksville, Pennsylvania, crash site could not
be tested or identified," the report said.

The inquiry found that the remains were cremated before being "placed in sealed
containers that were provided to a biomedical waste disposal contractor" by
staff at the mortuary at Dover Air Force base.

The contractor incinerated the contents, and Dover officials assumed "nothing
remained", the report said. However, a query by managers led to the discovery
that "residual material" was being dumped.

"This practice ceased in 2008," the report said, adding "such portions of
remains are now cremated and retired at sea". Senior officials expressed regret
over the practice yesterday but did not apologise.

Michael Donley, the Secretary of the Air Force, said that remains had been
handled to "perhaps a less than ideal, or by some measures even an inappropriate
standard".

"Prior practices were not appropriate," Mr Donley told a press conference. "We
have taken steps since 2008 to move forward to another place".

In all 184 people were killed in the attack on the Pentagon. Ronald Hemenway, a
37-year-old Navy technician who was killed on the ground floor, was one five
whose remains were never recovered after the attacks.

His father Robert last night said that the latest revelation was one to add to a
"weary list" of struggles for victims' families a decade after the attacks. "I
can't say it doesn't bother me," he told the Daily Telegraph. "There's so many
battles to fight here I don't know if I can handle any more,"

Other unidentified victims included Ronald Golinkski, a retired army colonel,
and Dana Falkenberg, a three-year-old who died with her father, mother, and
older sister Zoe on-board American Flight 77.

However Wallace Miller, the coroner who processed the remains of all 40 victims
and the four hijackers of United Airlines Flight 93, which crashed into a
Pennsylvania field, furiously rejected the findings.

"I don't care who told you - it didn't happen," Mr Miller told The Telegraph.
"No remains were taken to Dover".

Mr Miller said three coffins containing all unidentified remains were buried at
the site last year.

"Apart from that, I had four sets of remains that were the terrorists', and the
FBI has them," he said.

The US Air Force previously admitted that the partial remains of at least 274
service members who passed through the mortuary at Dover - to where all US
troops killed overseas are returned - ended up in the landfill site between 2003
and 2008.

LOAD-DATE: February 28, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTNS


                  Copyright 2012 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              142 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                     February 28, 2012 Tuesday 6:59 PM GMT

Head of state 'funded al-Qaeda and knew of 7/7 terror attacks';
Members of an Asian head of state's family have funded al-Qaeda and had advance
knowledge of the July 7 terrorist attacks on London, according to claims made
public by MPs and peers yesterday.

BYLINE: By Christopher Hope and Robert Winnett

LENGTH: 675 words


A parliamentary committee published a document revealing the details of one of
Britain's last remaining super-injunctions.

In the submission to the 26-member committee, Mark Burby, a businessman based in
the Channel Islands, claimed that he had been gagged by the "ex-spouse of an
Asian head of state" in 2009.

He said the "Asian head of state" - whom he does not identify - was a
"substantial" backer of al-Qaeda, and had advance warning of the suicide
bombings on London's transport system in 2005.

The ex-wife "and her solicitors have boasted to me and others that she 'owns'
the courts in England and Wales and the Government", he said.

Mr Burby alleged the unnamed ex-spouse, whom he described as one of the
wealthiest women in the world, had a sexual relationship "with one of her two
solicitors", as well as two other men, one of which resulted in her having an
abortion.

Last night, lawyers for the claimant threatened The Daily Telegraph with an
injunction, but failed to make any application.

The decision by the committee to post the claims on the parliamentary website,
represents another challenge to the supremacy of the courts after injunctions
involving Ryan Giggs, the footballer, and Fred Goodwin, the former banker, were
also exposed by MPs.

According to Mr Burby the super-injunction governed six general areas including
"information/allegations concern-ing any personal relationship of any kind
between the claimant and a man who is not her ex-husband".

The gagging order covered any "information/allegations" relating to the
ex-wife's attempt to secure payment of monies owed by her family, as well as
"any allegation that the claimant was involved in or responsible for" a murder,
he says.

Mr Burby said he felt compelled to provide the information to parliament's joint
committee on privacy and injunctions after Kenneth Clarke, the Lord Chancellor,
had told MPs and peers that super-injunctions "are now being granted only for
very short periods" and "you cannot have just long-running secret litigation".

Mr Burby said: "That of course is incorrect as the super-injunction against me
has been in place since Sept 9 2009. None of the interim rulings made by the
judges in these proceedings have been published, even in an anonymised or
redacted form." John Whittingdale, the committee's chairman, said yesterday that
Mr Burby's evidence was an "interesting and relevant submission", given that his
committee had been told by judges that the super-injunctions were now
"time-limited" only.

"The points he makes are valid," he said. "It is very dif-ficult for him to make
those points without some reference to his own position."

Mr Burby set out other allegations, published on the committee's website, that
he said were "pleaded by the claimant as being private and/ or confidential but
that are not expressly covered by the terms of the super-injunction (but are
impliedly covered by it)".

They included "that the claimant's ex-husband, as a head of state, sympathised
with and supported Islamic fundamentalists; that the claimant knew or suspected
from conversations with her ex-husband that there would be major terrorist
attacks on the UK (7/7) and Israel.

"That the claimant's exhusband flew a senior member of al-Qaeda to the country
of which he is head of state and gave him substantial funding for al-Qaeda."

Mr Burby raised a number of other allegations and said that if these were
untrue, "then the proper course is for the claimant to sue in defamation".

He added: "The claimant has been using her immense wealth to harass and bully
people with overpowering UK legal process under the protection of a web of
interlocking super-injunctions.

"The claimant boasted to a member of staff (who has provided a witness
statement) about the assassination of an opponent engaged in litigation against
her in another jurisdiction and saying that 'Burby' was next."

News of the gagging order is the latest in a series that have allowed
celebrities to cover up sexual scandals using super-injunctions, the very
existence of which cannot be reported.

LOAD-DATE: February 28, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTNS


                  Copyright 2012 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              143 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                   The Mirror

                          February 29, 2012 Wednesday
                                  Eire Edition

TERROR AT CHURCH;
MOB ATTACKS DURING CONFIRMATION

BYLINE: TOM SHIEL ; CATHAL MCMAHON

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 220 words


A CRAZED traveller mob burst into a packed church and chased down a man with
slash hooks.

More than 90 children making their Confirmation looked on in horror as a wooden
table was broken over the victim's back while he tried to flee.

Uniformed gardai backed up by armed members of the regional support unit broke
up the melee which erupted outside St Mary's Catholic church in Ballinrobe, Co
Mayo. Garda Inspector Joe Doherty said last night he could not confirm reports
that brush handles and knives were evident during the brief skirmish which
onlookers described as "frightening".

Insp Doherty added: "The situation was volatile enough at one stage with up to
20 or 30 people involved." The incident is believed to be part of an ongoing
feud between two families in the area.

More than 600 people were attending the church for the service, as children from
the local national schools of St Joseph's, Cloonliffen, Roxboro and Cregduff,
along with a number of secondary school children, were making their
Confirmation.

The parish priest of Ballinrobe, Fr Conal Eustace said the congregation had been
aware for "a few seconds" there was trouble outside because of the uproar
generated.

Many of the church-goers who witnessed the attack were shocked by the scenes.

One said: "A lot of people are very upset about what happened."

LOAD-DATE: February 29, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                            Copyright 2012 MGN Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              144 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                    February 29, 2012 Wednesday 2:04 PM GMT

July 7 bomber's widow 'on the run' over links with terrorist cell;
Samantha Lewthwaite, the widow of one of the July 7 bombers, Jermaine Lindsay,
is thought to be on the run accused of links with a terrorist cell planning bomb
attacks in Kenya.

BYLINE: By Duncan Gardham

LENGTH: 796 words


Police in Kenya have issued an arrest warrant for a woman using the name Natalie
Faye Webb, and carrying a forged South African passport.

Helped by officers from Scotland Yard who flew out to offer advice, they have
published her picture to alert the public.

But investigators say the woman has three separate identities and one is that of
Samantha Lewthwaite, who was married to Jermaine Lindsay, one of the 7/7
bombers.

Lindsay killed 26 people when he blew himself up on the Piccadilly Line between
King's Cross and Russell Square in July 2005.

Lewthwaite, from Aylesbury, Bucks, who converted to Islam at the age of 15 and
married Lindsay in 2002, is said to be travelling with her three children.

She is suspected of having links to a terrorist cell planning an attack in Kenya
after their troops crossed the border to fight al-Shabaab, an al-Qaeda-linked
group in Somalia.

The militant group al-Shabaab, which is currently engaged in a guerrilla war
against Kenyan security forces in Somalia and has links to al-Qaeda, is believed
to be behind the cell. Up to 40 Britons are fighting with al-Shabaab.

"I can give no details, but suffice it to say that we believe she is not a small
fish," a senior police source in Nairobi. "She is among several Britons that our
intelligence service is aware of in relation to terrorists' plans to attack us."

Kenyan police claimed to be closing in on the woman at that stage but she has so
far evaded capture.

Miss Lewthwaite's father Andy told the Times he did not believe she would be
involved in a terror plot after travelling with her three children.

"I haven't spoken to her for a long time," he said. "I don't know if she's in
this country or where she is."

She entered the country to meet with other terror suspects in Mombasa using a
South African passport under the name of Natalie Faye Webb, aged 26.

But the name belongs to an English woman unconnected with the plot. Miss Webb
lives with her parents John and Wendy in Southend-on-Sea, Essex.

Miss Webb was reported as having connections to South Africa, her mother's
native country, but was said to have never visited Kenya.

Her father said she was a victim of identity theft.

"We have been liaising with officers from the anti-terrorism unit at New
Scotland Yard to find out how this has come about," he said.

Police are also hunting for a man called Habib Ghani, from Hounslow, West
London, who left Britain several years ago to live in Africa.

They are said to be connected to Jermaine Grant, 29, a Muslim convert of
Jamaican origin from Newham, East London, who has appeared in court in Kenya on
charges of possessing explosives and preparing an attack.

He was arrested in the coastal town of Mombasa in December, in an apartment
where police also found bomb-making chemicals, batteries and an electric switch.

Security sources in Nairobi said that when he was detained, Grant had plans for
hotels and restaurants in the Kenyan capital.

He was charged alongside Kenyans Fouad Abubakar Manswab, Warda Breik Islam and
Frank Ngala. Grant had apparently married Islam days before he was arrested.

The charge sheet showed that they were allegedly found in possession of
bomb-making materials including batteries, wire, ammonium nitrate, lead nitrate,
acetone and hydrogen peroxide.

"On 20 December ... jointly with others not before the court, they conspired to
improvise an explosive with intent to cause loss of human lives and harm to
innocent citizens," it said.

Grant has already been sentenced to three years in prison for using false
documents that claimed he was a Canadian called Peter Joseph.

Grant was reportedly radicalised when previously held for non-terrorist-related
offences in Feltham young offenders institution in London.

Media reports in Kenya said Grant had also been arrested with two others in 2008
while trying to sneak into Somalia disguised as women.

Miss Lewthwaite, 27, was seven months pregnant with their second child when her
husband launched his 7/7 attacks, although it emerged at the inquests last year
that Lindsay was cheating on her.

She had taken the name Sherafiyah after converting and met Lindsay in 2002 over
the internet.

She initially denied Lindsay's involvement in the 7/7 attacks until authorities
produced forensic evidence to confirm his identity, although she later said she
"abhorred" the attacks and that her husband's mind had been poisoned by
radicals.

In August 2009, she gave birth to a baby she named Abdur-Rahman Faheem Jamal -
the same surname as the two other children she fathered with Lindsay.

However it was unclear who the father was because there was no name on the birth
certificate and she refused to reveal his identity.

A family insider said they were told the father was a Muslim Moroccan from
Birmingham.

LOAD-DATE: February 29, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTNS


                  Copyright 2012 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              145 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                    February 29, 2012 Wednesday 11:30 AM GMT

Samantha Lewthwaite: 7/7 bomber widow previously a 'Home Counties' girl;
Samantha Lewthwaite, the widow of one of the July 7 bombers, Jermaine Lindsay,
has been linked with a terrorist cell planning bomb attacks in Kenya. Here is a
profile of the British woman.

BYLINE: By Andrew Hough

LENGTH: 535 words


Born shortly before Christmas in 1983, Samantha Lewthwaite was a member of a
military family, the youngest daughter of a British soldier.

Her mother, Christine, grew up in the market town of Banbridge, Co Down, and
married Andrew Lewthwaite while he was serving in Northern Ireland.

They later moved to the Home Counties, with Samantha, who had two siblings, born
in Aylesbury, Bucks. The family briefly returned to Northern Ireland, where Mr
Lewthwaite worked as a lorry driver, before returning to Aylesbury

Her parents separated when she was 11, which friends told a newspaper had badly
affected her, leading to her being comforted by Muslim neighbours.

Following starting A-levels in religious studies, the teenager decided to
convert to Islam, aged 15 and began wearing a hijab and swapped her jeans and
T-shirt for a salwar kameez, a traditional Asian tunic and trousers.

Jermaine Lindsay, 19, blew himself up on a Piccadilly Line train between King's
Cross and Russell Square stations in the worst of the suicide attacks on London
on July 7, 2005, killing himself and 26 others.

Speaking about the first time she met Lindsay face-to-face at a Stop the War
march in London, she once said: "I just wanted to find a Muslim husband and
settle down.

"When we got together we were fantastic and prayed five times a day together."

They married in an Islamic ceremony in the front room of a terraced house in
Aylesbury in October 2002, using their adopted names, Asmantara and Jamal before
just four witnesses. None of her family attended.

She later recalled: "My father Andy didn't approve and stayed away and my mum
just couldn't make it. I was his youngest daughter. He found it hard enough when
I converted to Islam, without marrying a Muslim I had hardly met."

She and Lindsay, who changed his name to Abdullah Shaheed Jamal when he
converted to Muslim, had two children together.

Miss Lewthwaite, now 28, was seven months pregnant with their second child when
her husband launched his 7/7 attacks, although it emerged at the inquests last
year that Lindsay was cheating on her.

Lindsay's widow, who converted to Islam when she was 18, gave birth to her
latest son at Stoke Mandeville Hospital in Aylesbury, Bucks in August 2009.

A family insider said they were told the father was a Muslim Moroccan from
Birmingham. She is now reportedly travelling with her three children.

Lindsay met his wife, a white convert to Islam, over the internet in October
2002 and later married when, she said, he had been a "peaceful man who loved
people".

She previously said she believes his mind had been poisoned by visits to radical
mosques in London, Luton and the North.

Despite the young widow insisting she "totally abhorred" her husband's deadly
actions, she is now wanted for questioning by Kenyan authorities about a
suspected terror plot.

Police in Kenya have issued an arrest warrant for a woman using the name Natalie
Faye Webb, and carrying a forged South African passport.

Helped by officers from Scotland Yard who flew out to offer advice, they have
published her picture to alert the public.

But investigators say the woman has three separate identities and one is that of
Samantha Lewthwaite, The Times said.

LOAD-DATE: February 29, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTNS


                  Copyright 2012 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              146 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring Middle East - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                             March 1, 2012 Thursday

Iranian spokesperson condemns "terrorist" attacks on Shi'is in Pakistan

LENGTH: 124 words


Iran's Foreign Ministry Spokesperson Ramin Mehmanparast has condemned the
terrorist attack on a group of passengers in Gilgit-Baltistan Province of
Pakistan, which resulted in the killing and wounding of a number of Shi'is in
this province, IRNA reported.

According to the report, Mehmanparast warned against the conspiracy of the
enemies of the Islamic World and called for vigilance against such conspiracies,
which are aimed at creating differences among the Muslims in Pakistan and in the
region.

In the incident that occurred on 28 February, 18 people were killed most of whom
were Shi'i pilgrims, returning to their native areas after visiting holy shrines
in Iran.

Source: Islamic Republic News Agency, Tehran, in Persian 0534gmt 01 Mar 12

LOAD-DATE: March 1, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2012 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              147 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                               Belfast Telegraph

                             March 1, 2012 Thursday
                                 Final Edition

Ulster woman is hunted in al-Qaida bomb plot probe;
Wife of 7/7 killer believed part of terrorist cell that planned African attacks

BYLINE: LESLEY-ANNE MCKEOWN, lmckeown@belfasttelegraph.co.uk

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 770 words


A NORTHERN Ireland woman is being sought for questioning by police over a
suspected Islamic bombing campaign in east Africa.

Samantha Lewthwaite, who was married to one of the 7/7 London bombers, is
suspected of being part of a cell affiliated to al-Shabaab, an al-Qaida-linked
group in Somalia, that planned to mount a series of attacks on the Kenyan
coastal resort of Mombasa last Christmas.

The 28-year-old, who spent part of her childhood in the Whyte Acres estate in
Banbridge, has been on the run with her three children since anti-terrorist
officers in Nairobi swooped on the terror gang.

It is thought she fled Kenya after being tipped off about the police raid last
December.

Today it emerged the CIA has joined the hunt for the terror widow.

Samantha changed her name to Sherafiyah after converting to Islam, aged 17, and
was married to Jermaine Lindsay who detonated the bomb at King's Cross Tube
station, killing 26 people in 2005.

At the time she said that she was horrified by the massacre.

Her mother Christine is originally from Banbridge and married British soldier
Andy Lewthwaite while he was serving in Northern Ireland in the 1970s.

The couple and their children lived in Banbridge for two years before their
marriage broke up.

Kenyan police believe Lewthwaite has been using a number of identities,
including a fake passport to pose as South African Natalie Faye Webb.

Eric Kiraithe, a Kenyan police spokesman, said: "We know quite a bit about her
now. She has had three identities in the past and that (Samantha Lewthwaite) is
one possible identity."

Meanwhile, another senior Nairobi police source said: "I can give no details,
but suffice it to say that we believe that she is not a small fish. She is among
several Britons that our intelligence service is aware of in relation to
terrorists' plans to attack us."

The Kenyan authorities have been working closely with London's Metropolitan
Police which has sent a team of detectives from its Counter-Terrorism Command to
assist with the investigation.

CIA officials operating in the region are understood to be working closely with
Kenyan anti-terrorism police as they search for members of the cell linked to Ms
Lewthwaite.

The United States is increasingly concerned about the danger of violence in
neighbouring Somalia developing into attacks on the West and Western interests.

The suspect may have escaped across the Kenyan border into Somalia. However,
attempts are also being made to locate her in Britain.

A spokesman for the Met said: "We continue to liaise with the Kenyan authorities
on this matter."

The police say they cannot confirm the woman they are searching for is Ms
Lewthwaite unless and until she is captured.

Her England-based father Andy said he had not been in contact with her for some
time but could not believe she would be involved in an international bomb plot.

"After 7/7 happened, I asked her several times if she knew it was going to
happen and she always told me she didn't know.

"I cannot believe she would be involved in something like this and be there with
the children," he reporters.

"We have not had any contact with her for some time. I haven't spoken to her for
a long time. I don't know if she's in this country or where she is. I don't even
know the name of her latest child."

Her uncle Nigel Lewthwaite said he understood she had married again, to another
Muslim man.

"Her father only found out that she'd had another child when she left this
country. He just isn't in contact with her. I don't know anybody in her family
who is," he said. "Her father thought she was in South Africa, but we don't
know. We don't even know when she left the country. Apparently she's married
another Muslim man and her father thought she was in South Africa."

Conservative MP Patrick Mercer said he would be writing to Home Secretary
Theresa May to ask whether Ms Lewthwaite was subject to any form of monitoring
by the intelligence services.

"The whole point of having a watch list and a terrorist risk register is that it
has to be constantly monitored and information disseminated to other nations
that might be affected," he said.

The Home Office said it could not comment on whether Ms Lewthwaite was on any
terrorism watch lists which might have alerted the authorities.

Scotland Yard confirmed a team of anti-terrorist detectives had been to Kenya to
assist in the investigation and had returned.

CAPTION: On the run: Samantha Lewthwaite, who was married to one of the 7/7
London bombers, Jermaine Lindsay. Left, a recent photo of her, (top right) as a
schoolgirl and (below right) Mombasa, the alleged target of the east Africa bomb
attacks

LOAD-DATE: March 1, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: BT


                Copyright 2012 Belfast Telegraph Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              148 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                               The Sun (England)

                             March 1, 2012 Thursday
                                   Edition 1;
                                    Ireland

MACHETE MOB GOT MY BRO;
Church attack target's terror

BYLINE: JOANNE McELGUNN

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 270 words


A MAN told yesterday how his brother was hit with a MACHETE during an attack at
a CONFIRMATION service.

The individual - who is too frightened to be named - revealed how his family
were the intended target of the slash-hook gang who stormed the Mass.

The man's nephew and niece were among 95 kids who witnessed the terrifying
assault on St Mary's Church in Ballinrobe, Co Mayo, by a dozen armed thugs.

The deeply distressed man said: "They came at me. My brother pushed me out of
the way and was hit with a machete on the hand. It cut his finger, but it could
have been a lot worse. The lads that came to the church were after my family.

"They nearly killed us on Christmas Day when they attacked us with shovels and
spades."

Over 600 people watched in terror on Tuesday afternoon as the yobs ran amok.

They chased down one man and broke a wooden table over his back. It's understood
the terrifying scenes were caught on video cameras being used by parents to
record their children's big day.

Gardai may now seek to examine any available footage.

The dust-up kicked off towards the end of the 1.30pm service, being performed by
the Archbishop of Tuam, Dr Michael Neary.

At one stage up to 30 people were involved in the melee which cops described as
"volatile".

Armed members of the Regional Support Unit, backed up by local gardai, were on
the scene in minutes.

One man was arrested on an outstanding warrant and is due in court next week.

The attack is part of an ongoing feud between two families and gardai continue
to monitor the situation.

They are appealing for anyone with information to contact them.

joanne.mcelgunn@the-sun.ie

LOAD-DATE: March 1, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Mass ... St Mary's and Bishop Neary

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: SUN


                    Copyright 2012 NEWS GROUP NEWSPAPERS LTD
                              All Rights Reserved

                              149 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring Middle East - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                              March 5, 2012 Monday

Terrorist attack kills 14 Iraqi policemen in Hadithah; roundup 5 Mar 12

LENGTH: 462 words


Baghdad-based Al-Iraqiyah Television in Arabic, in its morning newscasts on 5
March, reports that Saudi Foreign Minister said the Gulf States are eager to
participate in the Arab summit in Baghdad; the Council of Representatives will
resume its session tomorrow to discuss the General Pardon draft of law; the
Kurdistan Alliance spokesman said that all political blocs initially agree on
the General Pardon Law; and that 14 policemen were martyred today in terrorist
attacks against police checkpoints and houses of security officials in
Hadithah."

Political developments

Within its 0500 gmt newscast, the channel carries the following report:

-  "Saudi Foreign Minister Prince Su'ud al-Faysal has said that the Gulf States
are eager to participate in the Arab summit due to be held in Baghdad in late
March. In a press conference following a GCC's Ministerial Council meeting,
Al-Faysal said that the Gulf Cooperation Council (GCC) is keen to participate
out of commitment to the Arab League's decisions. Regarding the level of
representation, it depends on how suitable are the conditions."

Within its 0900 gmt newscast, the channel carries the following reports:

-  "The Council of Representatives will resume its session tomorrow to discuss
the General Pardon draft of law and the second reading of eight other drafts of
law. A parliamentary source said that the council will discuss the General
Pardon draft of law that contains eight clauses, explaining that the session's
agenda will include the second reading of other drafts of law."

-  "Kurdistan Alliance spokesman Mu'ayyad al-Tayyib has said that all political
blocs initially agree on the General Pardon Law. Al-Tayyib mentioned the
importance of a political agreement to adopt the law with the majority of votes
after the second reading that will take place in tomorrow's session, stressing
that adopting this law should not contradict the constitution."

Security developments

Within its 0900 gmt newscast, the channel carries the following report:

-  "Fourteen policemen were martyred today in terrorist attacks against police
checkpoints and houses of security officials in Hadithah city in Al-Anbar
Governorate. Al-Iraqiyah TV correspondent said that a terrorist group
impersonated police, carrying fake arrest warrants, to arrest two citizens in
Hadithah; one of them is a leading member of the Awakening forces and the other
is a police captain. Al-Iraqiyah TV correspondent explained that the terrorists
came in 11 vehicles from Bayji District in Salah-al-Din Governorate, adding that
the security services confronted the terrorists and killed three of them and
that the Al-Anbar Police Command imposed a curfew in Hadithah after this
terrorist attack."

Source: Al-Iraqiyah TV, Baghdad, in Arabic 0900 gmt 5 Mar 12

LOAD-DATE: March 5, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2012 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              150 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring Middle East - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                             March 6, 2012 Tuesday

Syrian "terrorist" group attacks oil pipeline in Dir Izzur

LENGTH: 237 words


Text of report in English by state-run Syrian news agency SANA website;
subheading as published

["Terrorists Attack Oil Pipeline in Deir Ezzor Causing Negligible Damage" - SANA
Headline]

(SANA) - Dir Izzur, (SANA) -A terrorist group attacked on Monday [5 March] an
oil pipeline south of Al-Umar field in Dir Izzur, targeting it with an explosive
device that caused negligible damage.

An official source at the Petroleum Ministry said that the targeted pipeline
transports is 24 inches in diameter, transporting crude oil from Al-Umar field
to T2 station, noting that this specific pipeline hasn't been operational for
two weeks since there are alternative lines.

The source said that the attack caused damage to a cover and didn't affect the
line.

This particular pipeline was vandalized more than once at several points,
causing brief stoppage of oil pumping that didn't affect production due to the
presence of alternative lines and quick repair works.

Truck Loaded with Weapons Seized on Hama-Homs Road

The competent authorities seized on Monday a truck on Hama-Homs road loaded with
weapons and missiles and arrested the driver.

The weapons seized included five automatic rifles, 10 RPGs and ammunition.

In Hama countryside, the competent authorities discovered 25 barrels of engine
oil in a farm that armed groups had stolen from a retail stole.

H. Sabbagh/M. Ismael

Source: SANA news agency website, Damascus in English 6 Mar 12

LOAD-DATE: March 6, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2012 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              151 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                   MailOnline

                       March 6, 2012 Tuesday 11:29 AM GMT

Government CAN legally assassinate U.S. citizens abroad plotting terrorist
attacks against America, says Attorney General

BYLINE: ASSOCIATED PRESS

LENGTH: 1357 words



     ·    First legal justification for killing American al-Qaida leader Anwar
          al-Awlaki in Yemen
     ·    Three part test: Imminent threat of violence against US, capture
          impossible and allowed under laws of war


Attorney General Eric Holder says the Constitution allows the government to
assassinate US citizens living abroad if they are plotting terrorist attacks
against other Americans.

Holder's comments broke the administration's silence on the legal justifications
for its decision to kill American-born al-Qaida operative Anwar al-Awlaki five
months ago in Yemen.

In a speech at Northwestern University law school in Chicago, he described
al-Awlaki as concocting plans to kill Americans but he never explicitly
acknowledged the administration responded by targeting the cleric for death.

Instead the attorney general outlined a three-part test for determining when a
targeted killing against a US citizen is legal.

First, he said, the government must determine after careful review that the
citizen poses an imminent threat of violent attack against the US.

Second, capture is not feasible.

Finally, the killing would be consistent with laws of war.

The Obama administration has refused to release the Justice Department legal
opinion on al-Awlaki's killing under the Freedom of Information Act and is in
court opposing efforts to have it made public.

'We must take steps to stop them in full accordance with the Constitution. In
this hour of danger, we simply cannot afford to wait until deadly plans are
carried out -- and we will not.'

Attorney General Eric Holder

Responding to criticism from civil libertarians, Holder flatly rejected the
suggestion that the Constitution's due process protections require the president
to get permission from a federal court before taking lethal action.

'The unfortunate reality is that our nation will likely continue to face
terrorist threats that at times originate with our own citizens,' Holder told a
packed Thorne Auditorium, where 700 seats were filled with law students, who
were taking notes on their laptops, and Chicago-based federal prosecutors and
other observers.

'When such individuals take up arms against this country and join al-Qaida in
plotting attacks designed to kill their fellow Americans there may be only one
realistic and appropriate response,' the attorney general continued.

'We must take steps to stop them in full accordance with the Constitution. In
this hour of danger, we simply cannot afford to wait until deadly plans are
carried out -- and we will not.'

Al-Awlaki's killing in a joint CIA-US military drone strike on a convoy in Yemen
sparked a public debate over whether the president should have the authority to
kill an American without a conviction and despite an executive order banning
assassinations - which Holder called a 'loaded term' that doesn't apply in this
case.

Until now the Obama administration has said very little about it publicly as
administration officials have debated how much to reveal in response to the
criticism.

The day that al-Awlaki was killed, President Barack Obama said his death was 'a
major blow to al-Qaida's most active operational affiliate' and 'another
significant milestone in the broader effort to defeat al-Qaida.'

'The Constitution guarantees due process, not judicial process.'

Attorney General Eric Holder

But he did not acknowledge publicly that the United States was responsible for
the drone attack, which was confirmed by counterterrorism officials.

Al-Awlaki was a cleric who was born in New Mexico and once preached at an
Islamic center in Falls Church, Virginia. His sermons in English are posted all
over the Internet and his name has been associated with several attempted
terrorist attacks.

The Justice Department has said that a Nigerian man who tried to blow up an
international flight on Christmas 2009 told FBI agents that his mission was
approved after a three-day visit with al-Awlaki.

Obama administration officials told The Associated Press that Obama approved
al-Awlaki's killing in April 2010, when he became the first American placed on
the CIA 'kill or capture' list.

'Any decision to use lethal force against a United States citizen -- even one
intent on murdering Americans and who has become an operational leader of
al-Qaida in a foreign land - is among the gravest that government leaders can
face,' Holder said.

'The American people can be -- and deserve to be -- assured that actions taken
in their defense are consistent with their values and their laws.'

Al-Awlaki's father sued to try to stop the government from killing his son,
arguing he had to be afforded the constitutional right to due process. But US
District Judge John Bates in Washington refused to intervene in al-Awlaki's case
because he said the courts do not have the authority to review the president's
military decisions.

Holder pointed out that decision in his speech. 'The Constitution guarantees due
process, not judicial process,' Holder said.

At least three recently filed lawsuits have sought to force the Obama
administration to publicly release its legal justification for the attack,
contained in a secret Justice Department memo. The Associated Press also filed a
FOIA request for the memo, which was denied. The AP has appealed.

Hina Shamsi with the American Civil Liberties Union, one of the groups suing for
the memo, said if Holder can discuss the targeted killing program publicly, the
memo should be released and its position defended in court.

'Few things are as dangerous to American liberty as the proposition that the
government should be able to kill citizens anywhere in the world on the basis of
legal standards and evidence that are never submitted to a court, either before
or after the fact,' Shamsi said.

'Anyone willing to trust President Obama with the power to secretly declare an
American citizen an enemy of the state and order his extrajudicial killing
should ask whether they would be willing to trust the next president with that
dangerous power.'

University of Notre Dame international law expert Mary Ellen O'Connell also said
the memo should be released to reveal more about the administration's position.

'From what we know so far, the memo is highly reminiscent of the torture memos
written during the Bush administration, in which irrelevant US cases and
statutes are cited in order to give the CIA a green light,' she said.

'The relevant international law does not permit targeted killing far from battle
zones.'

Holder said it's 'not a novel concept' to target enemy leaders for death,
pointing out such attacks were made against al-Qaida's chief Osama bin Laden and
during World War II, including shooting down an aircraft specifically because it
was carrying Japanese Admiral Isoroku Yamamoto, leader of the attack on Pearl
Harbor.

He said Congress has given the president authorization to use lethal methods
under a resolution passed a week after the September 11 terrorist attacks that
authorizes the use of all necessary force to prevent any future acts of
international terrorism against the United States.

He said that authority was not limited to battlefields in Afghanistan, because
the nation faces a threat of terrorism from 'a stateless enemy, prone to
shifting operations from country to country.'

'It is preferable to capture suspected terrorists where feasible -- among other
reasons, so that we can gather valuable intelligence from them,' Holder said.

'But we must also recognize that there are instances where our government has
the clear authority - and, I would argue, the responsibility - to defend the
United States through the appropriate and lawful use of lethal force.'

Holder said that doesn't mean the administration can use military force whenever
it wants and that it must respect other nations' sovereignty before acting alone
on their soil.

'But the use of force in foreign territory would be consistent with these
international legal principles if conducted, for example, with the consent of
the nation involved or after a determination that the nation is unable or
unwilling to deal effectively with a threat to the United States,' he said.

LOAD-DATE: June 6, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDM


                   Copyright 2012 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              152 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring Middle East - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                            March 7, 2012 Wednesday

Iraq arrests 13 "terrorists" behind Hadithah attacks; roundup

LENGTH: 506 words


Baghdad Al-Iraqiyah Satellite Television in Arabic, in its 1700 gmt newscast on
6 March, reports on MP Mansur al-Tamimi's claims that the Council of
Representatives assigned the legal and financial committees with writing a draft
law to rescind the decision to purchase armoured vehicles for the Iraqi MPs; the
announcement by the Defence Ministry of the arrest and killing of some
"terrorists" involved in the Hadithah attacks; the announcement byInterior
Ministry Undersecretary Adnan al-Asadi of the arrest of a "terrorist cell" in
the area of Al-Mada'in in Baghdad; and other political and security
developments.

Political developments:

-  "National Alliance MP Mansur al-Tamimi has said that the Council of
Representatives assigned the legal and financial committees with writing a draft
law on cancelling the item pertaining to the purchase of armoured vehicles for
the Iraqi MPs, after the latter voted in favour of it earlier. Al-Tamimi said
that the funds that were allocated for the purchase of armoured vehicles will be
transferred to other fields within the 2012 budget."

-  "Al-Fadilah Bloc Chairman Ammar Tu'mah has said that the Council of
Representatives rescinded its decision to purchase armoured vehicles after it
was endorsed in the 2012 general budget. Speaking at a press conference, Tu'mah
revealed a proposal that aims to make use of the funds, which were supposed to
be allocated for purchasing these vehicles, in other fields."

-  "The Iraqi Journalists Syndicate has accused Al-Mada Daily Chief Editor
Fakhri Karim of blackmailing the state institutions and threatening the Council
of Ministers' Secretariat General so as to obtain contracts and tenders under
the pretext of being a figure close to President Jalal Talabani and Kurdistan
Region President Mas'ud Barzani. A statement by the syndicate said that Karim
campaigns against the Iraqi Journalists Syndicate and its head, noting that
Karim harms Barzani, Talabani, and the Iraqi journalists with such blackmail
tactics, according to the statement."

Security developments:

-  "The Defence Ministry has announced the arrest of 13 people who were involved
in the Hadithah attacks and the killing of three others after they were
besieged. Staff Lieutenant General Muhammad al-Askari, media adviser to the
Defence Ministry, said that the terrorists who carried out the attacks are
affiliated with the terrorist Al-Qa'idah Organization, noting that they were led
by a [former] officer at the presidential guards of the former Saddamist Ba'th
regime. Al-Askari said that the operations are still underway to arrest the rest
of the criminals."

-  "Senior Interior Ministry Undersecretary Adnan al-Asadi has revealed the
arrest of a terrorist cell in the area of Al-Mada'in in Baghdad. In a statement
to Al-Iraqiyah TV, Al-Asadi said that a citizen informed the ministry of the
presence of terrorist groups affiliated with Al-Qa'idah, something which led to
the arrest of the cell and that of the Kirkuk ruler."

Source: Al-Iraqiyah TV, Baghdad, in Arabic 1700 gmt 6 Mar 12

LOAD-DATE: March 7, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2012 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              153 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                          Future News - Media Planner

                            March 7, 2012 Wednesday

New Delhi court to try U.S. terrorist David Headley over Mumbai attacks

SECTION: NEWS; Major Events; International News

LENGTH: 84 words


India: American terrorist David Headley and eight others due in new Delhi court
charged with carrying out the deadly 2008 attacks in Mumbai, which killed 168. A
decision last month allowed Indian investigators to seek Headley's extradition
from the U.S. where he has been in prison after admitting to laying the
groundwork for the three-day shooting rampage in India's largest city. The court
also issued warrants for five suspects not already in custody

Event Start Date: 2012-03-13

Event End Date: 2012-03-13

LOAD-DATE: April 19, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                             Copyright 2012 Precise
                              All Rights Reserved

                              154 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring Middle East - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                             March 8, 2012 Thursday

UN condemns terrorist attacks in Yemen

LENGTH: 235 words


Text of report by AF published in English by state-run Yemeni news agency Saba
website

["UN condemns strongly terrorist attacks in Yemen"]

New York, 8 March - The UN Security Council has condemned "in the strongest
terms" the last Sunday [4 March] terrorist attack occurred in the southern
governorate of Abyan causing the death of a number of soldiers.

In a press release issued Wednesday after a closed session, the 15-member
council "reaffirmed that terrorism in all its forms and manifestations
constitutes one of the most serious threats to international peace and security,
and that any acts of terrorism are criminal and unjustifiable.

"The Security Council reiterated determination to combat all forms of terrorism,
in accordance with its responsibilities under the charter of the United
Nations."

For his part, UN secretary general Ban Ki-moon has also condemned strongly the
recent terrorist attacks in Yemen, particularly the attack in Mukalla, and
Sunday's attack in Abyan. He also welcomed President Abd Rabbuh Mansur Hadi's
pledge to fight terrorism, a press release issued by his office said.Moreover,
the UN secretary general's envoy to Yemen Jamal bin Omar called on the
international community to support Yemen in humanitarian and economic areas,
urging Yemen to keep on tackling the urgent security and humanitarian issues.

Source: Yemen News Agency Saba website, Sanaa, in English 1600 gmt 8 Mar 12

LOAD-DATE: March 8, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2012 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              155 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                          Future News - Media Planner

                             March 8, 2012 Thursday

2nd anniversary of Pakistani national convicted over Mumbai terror attacks

SECTION: NEWS; Anniversaries; Security & Terrorism

LENGTH: 95 words


2nd anniversary of Pakistani national Mohammed Ajmal Kasab convicted of murder
and waging war against India for his role in the Nov 2008 terror attacks on
Mumbai, which killed 166 over three days. During the atrocity ten young men
stormed two luxury hotels, a Jewish center and the main CST train station, where
21-year-old Kasab was photographed carrying an assault rifle. Nine gunmen were
killed and India has blamed the Pakistan-based militant group, Lashkar-e-Taiba.
Kasab was sentenced to death three days later

Event Start Date: 2012-05-03

Event End Date: 2012-05-03

LOAD-DATE: April 19, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                             Copyright 2012 Precise
                              All Rights Reserved

                              156 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                            The Independent (London)

                             March 8, 2012 Thursday
                                 First Edition

Breivik is formally charged with terror attacks

BYLINE: TONY PATERSON

SECTION: WORLD; Pg. 32

LENGTH: 271 words


The self-confessed mass murderer Anders Behring Breivik was formally charged
with committing acts of terror yesterday, seven months after he massacred 77
people in Norway's worst violence since the Second World War.

Defence lawyers representing Breivik, 33, read out the charges against him
during a visit to Oslo's high-security prison. His trial will begin on 16 April
and, if convicted, he could be jailed for 21 years or be committed to long-term
psychiatric care. Breivik, who claims his acts of violence were a crusade to
prevent a Muslim invasion of Europe, remained calm on hearing the charges.

On 22 July last year, Breivik detonated a car bomb outside government offices in
Oslo, which killed eight people and injured scores of others. Dressed as a
policeman and armed with an automatic rife, he then travelled to the fjord
island of Utoya, north of Oslo, where he shot dead 69 young people attending a
Norwegian Labour Party summer camp. Most victims were teenagers.

Prosecutors consider Breivik to be criminally insane and may try to have him
committed to long-term psychiatric care rather than a lengthy term in a
high-security prison.

But medical experts are divided about his state of mind. In an initial
examination, Breivik was interviewed 13 times by court-appointed psychiatrists
who concluded he was mentally ill and lived in a "delusional universe".

However, a separate team of four psychiatrists re-examined Breivik and
disagreed. They claimed that he was neither psychotic nor schizophrenic and said
they did not think he needed drugs.

The court ordered a further psychiatric assessment which is still under way.

LOAD-DATE: March 7, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: IA


                      Copyright 2012 Independent Print Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                              157 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring South Asia - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                              March 9, 2012 Friday

Pakistan's upper house of parliament condemns terror attacks in northwest

LENGTH: 165 words


Text of report by official news agency Associated Press of Pakistan (APP)

Islamabad, 9 March: The Senate [upper house of parliament] on Friday [9 March]
condemned recent terrorist attacks by miscreants on public rallies and police
personnel in Khyber Pakhtunkhwa Province.

The resolution presented to the House by an Awami National Party Senator Haji
Adeel, especially mentioned the attacks on public rally of MNA [Member of
National Assembly] Aftab Ahmed Khan Sherpao and that in Nowshera, and attempts
on police convoys and police stations in different parts of the province.

The House demanded the provincial government to ensure security during public
meetings, and for political figures as well as the common man against unlawful
activities of miscreants.

The House also sympathized with those who suffered from these attacks and
resolved to continue fighting the menace with valour and commitment.

Source: Associated Press of Pakistan news agency, Islamabad, in English 0740gmt
09 Mar 12

LOAD-DATE: March 9, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2012 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              158 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring Middle East - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                              March 9, 2012 Friday

Two "terrorists" reportedly confess to carrying out attacks in Syria's Arbin

LENGTH: 365 words


Text of report by Mazen published in English by state-run Syrian news agency
SANA website

["Terrorists Ayman and Fahd Erbinieh confess to attacking a church, school in
Arbin, kidnapping and ki..."]

Damascus - Terrorists Ayman and Fahd Abd-al-Karim Erbinieh confessed to
perpetrating crimes in Arbin, Damascus Countryside including attacks on Arbin
Church, Religious Kweider School, setting up barricades, kidnapping citizens and
killing them.

"While driving my car in Arbin, I saw some persons setting up barricades, one of
them called Basil intercepted me and called on me to participate with them in
this act, first I rejected.. but on the second day he saw me and insisted to
join them, then he handed me a rifle," Ayman told the Syrian TV in confessions
broadcast Thursday.

He added "Later, we began stopping the cars at the barricades where I met a
person named Zahir Quwaydar who took me with him to the barricades.. I asked the
group about this man, they told me that he was in Iraq and had relation with
Al-Qa'idah and participated in an attack on the Syrian TV and Radio in
Damascus."

He went on to say that, one day, I saw Zahir who was also known as Hushan near
the mosque, he was carrying an RPG. He ordered me to shell the church, first I
told him not, but later I fired the church, but it hit the veranda of a building
next to the church because I wasn't skill in the shooting.

For his part, other terrorist Fahd confessed that he got acquainted with Zahir
when he was setting up a roadblock in Arbin along with five persons where he
joined them.

"Hushan gave us the rifles, ordered us to set up barricades.. once, we were
standing at a barricade near Madeara when a military vehicle came, its driver
was a warrant officer.. we asked him to get down, we put him aside, later a taxi
crossed.. we order its driver to get down to take his identity card then we took
the two men to a farm in Hamurea," Fahd told the Syrian TV.

He added that after two days terrorist Hushan asked them to set up a barricade
at Arbin cemetery where we intercepted a Kia-Rio white car, kidnapped two
persons, killed them and threw them near a sewage.

Source: SANA news agency website, Damascus in English 9 Mar 12

LOAD-DATE: March 9, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2012 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              159 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring Middle East - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                              March 9, 2012 Friday

Six Lebanese charged with forming armed ring to carry out terrorist attacks

LENGTH: 105 words


Text of report in English by privately-owned Lebanese newspaper The Daily Star
website on 9 March

["Six Lebanese charged with forming terror ring"]

Beirut: Six Lebanese men were charged Friday [9 March] with forming an armed
ring with the aim of carrying out terrorist attacks, the state-run National News
Agency reported.

The NNA said Military Prosecutor Saqr Saqr pressed charges against the six
suspects "for setting up an armed gang and conducting training exercises with
the aim of carrying out terrorist acts and operations against the [Lebanese]
military establishment."

Source: The Daily Star website, Beirut, in English 9 Mar 12

LOAD-DATE: March 9, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2012 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              160 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring Middle East - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                              March 9, 2012 Friday

Two Palestinian militants killed in Gaza raid planned terror attack from Sinai

LENGTH: 359 words


Text of report by Israeli public radio station Voice of Israel Network B on 9
March

Zuhayr al-Qaysi, head of the Popular Resistance Committees [PRC], and Mahmud
Ahmad Hanani, a senior PRC member and former prisoner from the Nablus area who
was lately released from Israeli prison, were killed in an Israel Air Force
[IAF] strike in Gaza. A third passenger in their car was fatally wounded.

Our Palestinian affairs correspondent Gal Berger quotes Palestinian sources as
saying that at around 1600 [1400 gmt] this afternoon an IAF aircraft fired two
missiles at the car the three were riding in Gaza's Tal al-Hawa neighbourhood.
Our correspondent points out that Al-Qaysi had replaced PRC leader Kamal Nayrab,
who was killed in an IAF raid in August 2011 after the terror attack in the Elat
region. PRC spokesmen threatened to retaliate for the IAF operation, and HAMAS
officials also said that the response should be deeds rather than words.

IDF sources say that Al-Qaysi, who was killed in a joint IDF-Shin Bet operation,
was planning a major attack on Israeli targets setting out from the Sinai
Peninsula into Israeli territory. He was one of the planners of the attack on
Highway 12 in August 2011 in which eight Israelis were murdered and was also
involved in the terrorist attack on the Nahal Oz fuel terminal four years ago.
The IDF sources added that Hanani had also been involved in terror activity and
had sent a terrorist wearing an explosives belt into Israeli territory.

IDF sources told our correspondent Karmela Menashe that the attack in Gaza is
part of the IDF's actions to disrupt terrorist plans to stage attacks from the
Israeli-Egyptian border in violation of Egyptian sovereignty in the Sinai. The
IDF is not interested in an escalation but it will defend its citizens and will
respond powerfully to any attempt to stage terror attacks. The sources added
that HAMAS is using other terror groups to carry out attacks against Israel, and
that it will bear responsibility for any actions taken by the IDF to remove the
threat of terror and restore relative peace to the region.

Source: Voice of Israel, Jerusalem, in Hebrew 1600 gmt 9 Mar 12

LOAD-DATE: March 9, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2012 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              161 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring Middle East - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                              March 9, 2012 Friday

Court sentences two Moroccans to death in Argana cafe 'terrorist' attack case

LENGTH: 128 words


Excerpt from report by state-owned, government controlled Moroccan news agency
MAP

Sale, 9 March. MAP  The appeal criminal chamber in charge of terrorism cases at
the Sale appeal court this Friday evening [9 March] passed death sentences on
Adil Athmani and Hakim Dah, the main and second suspects in the dossier of the
terrorist attack which targeted `Argana' café in Marrakech, which left 17 people
dead, including Moroccan and foreign citizens, and 21 injured.

The court had confirmed the initial `death' sentence passed on Athmani, and
decided to change the initial life prison sentence on Dah, the second suspect in
the dossier, to death.

[Passage omitted: Background to the attack on the Marrakech Argana cafe.]

Source: MAP news agency, Rabat, in Arabic 1919 gmt 9 Mar 12

LOAD-DATE: March 10, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2012 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              162 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                       BBC Monitoring Trans Caucasus Unit
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                            March 10, 2012 Saturday

European embassies in Iran support terrorist attacks, opposition - expert

LENGTH: 137 words


Iranian expert on international affairs Sa'dollah Zare'i has said that several
Europeans use their embassies in Tehran for terrorist attacks, Fars news agency
reported on 10 March.

"The main function of several European embassies in Tehran is serious support
for terrorist attacks and the opposition, which has led to the martyrdom of a
number of scientists in this country in recent months," Fars quoted Zare'i as
saying.

Zare'i added that the return of Western ambassadors after some European envoys
left Iran following Iranian students' attack on the UK embassy in Tehran meant
that Europe was unable to sever contacts with Iran and that they wanted to use
as much of their capacities as possible to help opponents of the system, the
news agency reported.

Source: Fars News Agency website, Tehran, in Persian 1042gmt 10 Mar 12

LOAD-DATE: March 10, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2012 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              163 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                      March 14, 2012 Wednesday 9:29 PM GMT

Azerbaijan arrests '22 Iranian spies';
Security services in Azerbaijan have arrested 22 people they say were hired by
Iran to carry out terrorist attacks against the US and Israeli embassies as well
as Western-linked groups and companies.

LENGTH: 416 words


The national security ministry said Wednesday that the 22, all Azerbaijan
citizens, had been trained in Iran, its southern neighbour, by Iran's
Revolutionary Guard. It did not specify when the arrests were made.

In February, Azerbaijan announced the arrest of another suspected terrorist
group allegedly working for Iran's secret services, and in January it arrested
two people accused of plotting to kill two teachers at a Jewish school in the
capital, Baku.

In 2007, Azerbaijan convicted 15 people in connection with an alleged
Iranian-linked spy network accused of passing intelligence on Western and
Israeli activities.

Azerbaijani authorities said a Revolutionary Guard operative, Akper Pakravesh,
recruited an Azeri identified as N. Kerimov while he was in Iran in 1999 and
gave him the job of assembling a group of other Azerbaijanis to act as spies.

The security ministry said in its statement that Pakravesh met with members of
the group in Moscow and in the Syrian capital of Damascus, giving them with
financing and equipment.

Automatic assault rifles, grenades, ammunition, explosives were seized during
the group's arrest, officials said.

Planned targets included diplomatic missions, the offices of a Jewish
organisation, the local headquarters of international oil giant BP and an
American-themed fast food restaurant.

Israeli authorities have linked Iran to three other incidents - claims that Iran
denies.

Authorities in Thailand in February arrested a group of Iranian citizens they
said were planning a bomb attack on Israeli diplomats.

In the same month in New Delhi, the wife of an Israeli diplomat and three others
were wounded by attackers using magnetic bombs. That same day, a similar bomb
was found on the car of a driver for the Israeli Embassy in the Georgian
capital, Tbilisi.

Tehran denies any links to the attacks outside its borders, but accuses Israel
of directing the slayings of Iranian scientists as well as other clandestine
acts, such as a computer virus that targeted uranium enrichment equipment.

Azerbaijan, an oil-rich former Soviet nation of 9 million people wedged between
Russia and Iran, has nurtured close relations with the United States and played
an active role in Western-led counter-terrorist programs. That foreign policy
has placed a strain on its ties with Iran, which hosts a sizeable ethnic Azeri
community.

Authorities in Baku have repeatedly insisted, however, that they will not permit
use of the country for any military action against Iran.

Source: AP

LOAD-DATE: March 15, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTNS


                  Copyright 2012 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              164 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                            Birmingham Evening Mail

                            March 15, 2012 Thursday
                                 First Edition

POSTIES BITING BACK OVER ATTACK TERROR;
Inquiry launched as 300 postal workers savaged by dogs in the last 10 months

BYLINE: Chris Henwood

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 325 words


MORE than seven postmen and women are being viciously attacked by dogs every
week in the Midlands, the Birmingham Mail can reveal.

Just under 300 postal workers in the region were savaged on their daily rounds
in the ten months from the end of April last year to the start of this month.

The problem has now sparked a national inquiry, to be led by Sir Gordon Langley,
looking at why there are so many attacks and what effects they have on postal
workers.

Dave Joyce, national safety officer for the Communications Workers' Union, said:
"This is a very positive and welcome development at a key moment and will
definitely raise the profile of the issue and influence the public and political
debate and strengthen the case for change, which is overwhelming and must not be
further delayed."

The inquiry comes as a further investigation by the Mail, under the Freedom Of
Information Act, has uncovered a number of attacks by people on their own
posties in the city.

The Royal Mail said 17 postal workers were verbally or physically attacked in
2010 and 2011. Birmingham also saw 113 animal attacks on postmen and women in
that time.

Royal Mail chairman Donald Brydon said: "It is an offence to decency that good
people should suffer these attacks carrying out their daily jobs and serving the
public."

Nationally, the number of dog attacks on Royal Mail workers every year ranges
from around 3,700 to nearly 4,800, resulting in injuries - many severe - and
considerable trauma.

In the Midlands, there have been nearly 3,000 such attacks since April 2006,
with the most coming in 2008/09 when 650 posties were hurt.

A Royal Mail spokesman said: "The safety of our staff is a main priority and we
ensure that advice is provided to staff regarding how to reduce the risk of
attack.

"While we have a legal commitment to deliver to all addresses, we also have a
duty under Health And Safety law to reduce risks and prevent injury to our
people."

LOAD-DATE: March 15, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:  Shock figures: Seven postmen and women are attacked by dogs every
week.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: em


               Copyright 2012 Midland Independent Newspapers plc
                              All Rights Reserved

                              165 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                      March 15, 2012 Thursday 10:35 PM GMT

Samantha Cameron shares her memories of 9/11 on emotional return to New York;
Samantha Cameron has spoken publicly for the first time about her experiences in
New York City on the day of the 9/11 terror attacks.

BYLINE: By Rosa Prince in New York

LENGTH: 753 words


During an emotional visit to the Ground Zero memorial to the nearly 3,000 people
who died the Prime Minister's wife said she would never forget the "shocking"
events of that day and the impact they had on the city.

As she laid a posy of white roses at a fountain engraved with the names of those
who died, she said: "The memories of that day will stay with me forever.

"I just couldn't believe it had happened and to see the aftermath and the effect
on the city was just so shocking.

"I often think about the people who died and their families - I am glad I have
been able to come and pay my respects properly today."

Mrs Cameron was in New York to open a new branch of the luxury accessories firm
Smythson when the 2001 atrocity happened. David Cameron has told in the past of
his fears for his wife, who was eight weeks pregnant with their late son Ivan,
as he struggled to contact her.

But this is the first time that Mrs Cameron has spoken publicly about her
experiences.

She and Mr Cameron bowed their heads in silence for several moments beside the
reflecting pool which acts as a memorial on the footprint of the former North
Tower of the World Trade Center.

Mrs Cameron laid her bouquet of white roses on the spot where the name of
British victim Katherine Wolf is engraved.

The Swansea woman had been working for the firm Marsh & McLennan in the North
Tower for just three weeks before the attacks.

Her husband Charles was introduced to the Camerons. Afterwards, he said: "It's a
great honour. It was very, very nice for both he and his wife to come. It was
very personal as well as being official.

"Of course they have had their own loss of their child, and when you are with
someone who's had a recent loss like that, you know you are with people who get
it, who care."

Before going to pay their respects, the couple went up into one of the new
skyscrapers being built around the Ground Zero site, where Port Authority
officials showed them plans for the redevelopment of the area.

The Camerons took a constructors' lift up the outside of One World Trade Centre
to the 21st storey of the half-built tower, which will be New York's tallest
building when it is completed - standing higher than the Twin Towers at 1,776
feet.

The Prime Minister said that the visit brought home to him the reasons why
British troops are fighting in Afghanistan.

"Here at the site of the Twin Towers, Ground Zero, here is the place to remember
why what we do overseas is so important, so people are safe at home," he said.

In the past the Prime Minister has told of his fears as he tried to reach Mrs
Cameron on 9/11: "Samantha was actually in New York that day, in Manhattan, and
I'll never forget the hours of ringing her mobile over and over again and not
being able to get through because the mobile phone system was down.

"I remember exactly where I was when I finally did get through and how pleased I
was to hear her voice.

"And it made a huge impression on her because of what happened in New York that
day and what people felt about it."

The Camerons were taken to Ground Zero by Michael Bloomberg, the billionaire
mayor of New York.

At the end of a visit on which her wardrobe has attracted intense scrutiny, Mrs
Cameron wore a dress by Emilia Wickstead, a belt from Fenwick belt and Manolo
Blahnik shoes - the brand made famous by the New York-based drama Sex in the
City.

The Prime Minister then went on to lunch with business and banking leaders
including Lloyd Blankfein, the Chairman and Chief Executive of Goldman Sachs.

He was this week forced to defend the bank's attitude to after a London-based
staff member Greg Smith quit his role as an executive director claiming
colleagues described them as "muppets" and were solely focused on making money
from them.

Other guests included George Soros, the billionaire financier who "broke" the
Bank of England on Black Wednesday in 1992.

Earlier, the Prime Minister went to New Jersey where he met Cory Booker, the
Democratic mayor of Newark, who is seen as a future leader of the party. They
visited two local businesses supported by a loan scheme for ethnic minorities,
Loft 47 and then Uber-Burger, where he was presented with a jersey from the New
Jersey Devils ice hockey team.

Mr Cameron said: "This is an example of a city that has suffered great
deprivation in the past.

"It really shows what real city leadership can do and a strong city mayor can do
to turn a city around.

"I want us in the uk to have many more mayors in our great cities. We need that
sort of leadership in the UK."

LOAD-DATE: March 16, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTNS


                  Copyright 2012 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              166 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                      March 15, 2012 Thursday 7:56 PM GMT

David Cameron pays his respects at Ground Zero memorial;
The Prime Minister and his wife, Samantha, visit Ground Zero to lay flowers for
the victims of the 9/11 terror attacks in New York.

LENGTH: 69 words


Accompanied by New York Mayor Michael Bloomberg the Camerons visited the 9/11
memorial at Ground Zero.

The memorial comprises 152 bronze panels in which the names of the 2,982 victims
of al-Qaeda's attacks in 2001 and 1993 are carved surrounded by reflecting pools
dug into the footprints of the Twin Towers.

The Camerons were joined by Charles Wolf, whose Welsh-born wife Katherine died
at the World Trade Center.

.

LOAD-DATE: March 16, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTNS


                  Copyright 2012 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              167 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring South Asia - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                             March 16, 2012 Friday

Pakistan judicial team meets India's Mumbai terror attack prosecutor - PTI

LENGTH: 589 words


Text of report by Indian news agency PTI

New Delhi/Mumbai, 15 March: A Pakistani judicial commission on Thursday [15
March] held a close-door meeting with special public prosecutor Ujjwal Nikam in
connection with the 26/11 Mumbai terror attack in which LeT commander Zakiur
Rehman Lakhvi and six other suspects face charges in a Pakistani court.

Highly placed sources said Nikam, who held a three-hour long meeting with the
eight-member Pakistani judicial Commission in Delhi, later met Home Minister P
Chidambram, Union Home Secretary R K Singh and apprised them about his
discussions.

The Pakistani team flew to Mumbai this afternoon by an Air India flight amid
tight security and will record the statements of four witnesses from Friday.

When contacted, Nikam refused to divulge details of the meeting but said "the
evidence of these witnesses would help Pakistan nail the perpetrators of the
26/11 terror attack".

The Pakistani Commission will record the statements of the metropolitan
magistrate who took the confessional statement of the lone surviving terrorist
Mohd Ajmal Amir Kasab, and also of Chief Investigating Officer in the case.

The commission headed by special prosecutor Chaudhry Zulfiqar Ali who came from
Lahore to Delhi on Wednesday will also record the evidence of two doctors
involved in carrying out the autopsy of the nine killed terrorists in the 2008
attack in which 166 people were killed.

The Pakistani Commission will tomorrow start recording the evidence of
Metropolitan Magistrate R V Sawant Waghule.

The statements of Chief Investigating Officer Ramesh Mahale will also be
recorded by them in addition to the two doctors, Shailesh Mohit and Ganesh
Nitukar, who had conducted the autopsy of the slain terrorists.

Nikam reminded the Pakistani prosecuting agency that governments of both
countries agreed to record the statements of only four prosecution witnesses,
the sources said.

"The evidence of these four witnesses are crucial for Pakistani prosecuting
agency so that they can use these statements for successful prosecution of the
perpetrators of the Mumbai terror attack," sources said.

Besides Chaudhry Zulfiqar Ali, other members of the panel are prosecutor
Chaudhry Azhar, Azad Khan, Deputy Director of the Federal Investigation Agency
and defence lawyers.

The defence lawyers are Khwaja Haris, Riyaz Akram Choudhary, Fakhar Haayat, Raja
Ehassan Ulhakhan and Isaam Bin Haris.

Sources said the panel expects to complete its work in four to five days.

The anti-terrorism court in Pakistan is conducting the trial of seven suspects,
including Lakhvi, who have been charged with planning, financing and executing
the terror attacks in Mumbai, the capital of western Indian state Maharashtra.

Malik Rafique, one of the defence lawyers, decided not to travel to India with
the commission, citing security concerns.

The commission can only record the statements of the Indian officials and it
cannot conduct any cross-examination, the sources said.

The trial of the seven Pakistani suspects has been stalled due to legal hurdles.

Pakistani prosecutors have said the commission's visit to India is necessary to
take forward the trial.

The panel will collect evidence on behalf of the Pakistani court trying Lakhvi
and other suspects in the case.

On 26 November, 2008, Kasab, and nine other LeT terrorists had landed here by
sea and massacred 166 people in a bloody mayhem at city's landmarks including
Taj Mahal Hotel, CST Railway Terminus and Oberoi Hotel.

Source: PTI news agency, New Delhi, in English 1451gmt 15 Mar 12

LOAD-DATE: March 16, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2012 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              168 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                       BBC Monitoring Africa - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                             March 16, 2012 Friday

AU condemns "terrorist" attack in western Ethiopia

LENGTH: 139 words


Text of report in English by state-owned Ethiopian news agency ENA website

Addis Ababa, 15 March: The chairperson of the African Union Commission (AUC), Dr
Jean Ping, condemned the recent terrorist attack that occurred in Gambela region
[western Ethiopia].

According to a statement AU sent to ENA [Ethiopian News Agency] on Thursday [15
March], the chairperson denounced the terrorist attack against innocent
civilians.

Dr Ping expressed AU's condolences to the Ethiopian government and the bereaved
families. He further called on the Ethiopian government to ensure that those
responsible for this cowardly attack are brought to justice.

Dr Ping reaffirmed the AU's unequivocal condemnation of all forms of terrorism
and attacks against innocent civilians, according to the statement.

Source: ENA website, Addis Ababa, in English 15 Mar 12

LOAD-DATE: March 16, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2012 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              169 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                       BBC Monitoring Africa - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                             March 16, 2012 Friday

Ethiopian army returns "safely" after attacking terrorist camps in Eritrea

LENGTH: 330 words


Text of report in English by pro-Ethiopian government Walta Information Centre
website on 16 March

Addis Ababa, 16 March: Government Communication Affairs Office [GCAO] of
Ethiopia said yesterday's attack against terrorist camps in Eritrea will convey
the right message to the Eritrean government that violation of Ethiopia's
borders cannot continue definitely.

Early yesterday morning the Ethiopian Defence Forces attacked military targets
18 kms inside Eritrea where the Eritrean government trained, armed and deployed
hit and run terrorist and subversive groups, including the one which recently
attacked, killed and abducted European tourists in the Afar region of
[northeastern] Ethiopia.

The Ethiopian military units have safely returned to camp after successfully
carrying out this proportional military measure intended to safeguard Ethiopia's
security along its border with Eritrea.

Ethiopia firmly believes that disputes between the two neighbouring countries
can and should only be solved by peaceful means. Based on this principled
position, Ethiopia has repeatedly expressed its firm resolve to engage in
dialogue and negotiations with the Eritrean government.

Despite Ethiopia's numerous efforts to reach a peaceful and negotiated
settlement, the Eritrean government has chosen to continue with its belligerent
attacks on civilians and infrastructural targets through its surrogates outfits.

Since Ethiopia has consistently and steadfastly adhered to its peaceful stance,
it is dismayed by Eritrea's escalation of destabilization activities as
manifested in its recent terrorist acts and abduction of tourists.

While Ethiopia reserves its right to take retaliatory measures against Eritrea's
violent attacks, the government still upholds that the solution to the conflict
can only be resolved through negotiations and dialogue, the statement issued by
Government Communication Affairs Office noted.

Source: Walta Information Centre website, Addis Ababa, in English 16 Mar 12

LOAD-DATE: March 16, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2012 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              170 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                            Nottingham Evening Post

                             March 16, 2012 Friday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

Pensioner's terror call leads to burglar attack on cop

BYLINE: Rebecca Sherdley

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 4,5

LENGTH: 355 words


A BURGLAR thumped a police officer in the face when he was caught breaking into
a pensioner's bungalow.

PC Lyndon Youd was injured after he found Karl Evason at the back of a
67-year-old woman's house in Mansfield last September.

The woman had called police after she heard banging on her windows and doors and
saw a hooded figure walking by at three o'clock in the morning.

She then heard someone trying to prise open her bathroom window and conservatory
door. When police arrived, Evason was pushing a pair of garden shears and a
screwdriver into a lock, where he'd already jammed a garden spade.

PC Youd shouted "police!", and Evason turned to face him, holding the tools.

Evason brought his right arm down with the screwdriver but the officer blocked
him and dislodged the weapon. Then Evason came towards him with the garden
shears, causing him a glancing blow to the thigh and punching him in his cheek.

Prosecutor Jon Fountain told Nottingham Crown Court that he officer "immediately
felt sick with pain".

Evason was chased by the officer and his colleague and was dragged off the
garden fence as he tried to get away.

He was charged with attempted burglary and assault causing actual bodily harm.
Evason, 44, formerly of Clifton Place, Mansfield, pleaded guilty and was
sentenced to three years in prison.

Judge Philip Head said the assault was sustained involved a number of weapons
and was against an officer on duty.

Evason, who had 50 previous convictions, including seven for burglary, had been
on the straight and narrow, the court heard. After serving his previous
sentence, he got a job in construction but returned to crime after suffering an
accident and becoming depressed. On the night of the latest offences, he had
been knocking on windows and doors to establish if the bungalow was occupied.
Christopher Lowe, in mitigation, said Evason took steps to ensure he would not
be met or challenged."

Judge Head said the defendant had not known the home was that of a 67-year-old.
"I accept you took quite a lot of pains to check it wasn't occupied," he said.

'' You took quite a lot of pains to check it wasn't occupied Judge Head

LOAD-DATE: March 16, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: NEP


                     Copyright 2012 Nottingham Evening Post
                              All Rights Reserved

                              171 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                       March 16, 2012 Friday 2:27 PM GMT

Norovirus as big a risk to Olympics as terrorism;
An outbreak of flu or vomiting bug is as big a risk to the Olympics as a terror
attack, a Government security assessment has warned.

BYLINE: By Tom Whitehead Security Editor

LENGTH: 293 words


Health chiefs fear the fact hundreds of thousands of people from around the
world will all be in one place this summer would increase the likelihood of
contagious bugs or even new strains spreading.

Monitoring systems will be expanded in the run up to and during the Games to
ensure any virus is picked up on early.

Security experts also have great faith in the British weather after warning the
greatest climatic threat to visitors will be suffering from a heatwave.

The warnings are included in a Home Office risk assessment which puts "natural
events" alongside terrorism, organised crime, extremism and public disorder as
the main threats.

Under human diseases, it warns: "The likelihood of a new, or newly recognised,
infectious disease spreading to the UK is low but, with large numbers of
visitors entering the UK at that time, we will need to be alert to these and to
the more likely, but less serious, risk of a food borne illness or
gastroenterinal outbreak such as norovirus."

A spokeswoman for the Health Protection Agency said: "The HPA's current
surveillance systems record the number of people with symptoms of infectious
diseases attending GP surgeries or calling NHS helplines, which inform our
real-time public health response.

"In the lead-up and during the Olympics we are enhancing these surveillance
systems by including emergency departments, walk-in-centres and out-of-hours
GPs, as international visitors are most likely to use these services.

"We will be receiving laboratory reports, clinical notifications as well as
reports of symptoms people are presenting with to their GPs.

"These will inform our public health response which includes prompt
investigation and control of any infectious disease outbreaks, as is current
practice."

LOAD-DATE: March 17, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTNS


                  Copyright 2012 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              172 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                       March 16, 2012 Friday 2:26 PM GMT

Olympics: Norovirus Q&A;
An outbreak of Norovirus is as big a risk to the Olympics as a terror attack, a
Government security assessment has warned. Here are the facts about the illness:

LENGTH: 422 words


What are noroviruses and what are the symptoms?

Noroviruses are one of the commonest causes of gastroenteritis. Vomiting and
diarrhoea are the most likely symptoms. Others include cramps and mild fever.
Symptoms usually emerge 24-48 hours after exposure. The illness typically lasts
between one and four days.

Are there particular dangers on cruise ships?

Cruise ships are closed communities in which rapid transmission can occur among
passengers. The arrival of new passengers every few days can make infection
difficult to eradicate, resulting in some of the widespread outbreaks that have
recently made headline news. Sometimes draconian measures are needed to bring an
outbreak to a halt - such as taking a ship out of service for disinfection.

How serious is norovirus disease?

Although troublesome, the illness is not usually serious in medical terms.
Elderly people and infants are most likely to become dehydrated and may need
treatment to replace lost fluid.

Is it contagious?

Everyone suffering from the infection can infect others. If you are infected on
board ship, you may be asked to stay in your cabin until you have recovered. The
virus can be transmitted through contact with an infected person, poor hygiene
or handling contaminated objects. Raw or undercooked shellfish and chilled
foods, including salads and sandwiches, can also become a source of infection.

Can norovirus infections be prevented?

There are no specific medicines for prevention. The best approach is a strict
regard for food hygiene. Cruise lines take this issue extremely seriously, not
least because of the high costs of taking a ship out of service, and the
subsequent adverse publicity. On many cruise ships, passengers are asked to
clean their hands with an alcohol hand-rub before entering dining areas.

Who is most at risk? What treatment is available?

Infection does not result in lasting immunity, so anyone can become infected.
Notable victims have included the Queen (on Royal Yacht Britannia) and George
Bush Sr (filmed vomiting at a function in Japan). Pack oral rehydration sachets
and treatments for diarrhoea, and get insurance - treatment on board ship is
expensive

Advice from Dr Richard Dawood a specialist in Travel Medicine at the Fleet
Street Travel Clinic (020 7353 5678).

LOAD-DATE: March 17, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTNS


                  Copyright 2012 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              173 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                   MailOnline

                      March 17, 2012 Saturday 2:54 AM GMT

What would happen if a nuclear bomb hit Washington D.C.? The terrifying report
that predicts damage a terror attack would wreak on the nation's capital

BYLINE: DAILY MAIL REPORTER

LENGTH: 721 words


It is perhaps unsurprising that a nuclear bomb set off in the nation's capital
would cause devastating and widespread damage.

Yet the simple conclusion did not put the government off, and they commissioned
a report to assess the impact of a potential terror attack on Washington, D.C.

The results are far from comforting: the half-mile radius around the bomb would
have a low chance of survival and most buildings - including that of the federal
government - would be destroyed.

The study simulated a nuclear strike on 16th and K streets, which is the heart
of the city and just a couple of blocks from the White House.

Buildings including the White House, the Capitol, Treasury Department, Old
Executive Office Building and many along the National Mall would be instantly
decimated.

The next half mile would suffer extensive damage, fires and serious injuries,
and those within three miles could suffer minor injuries and slight damage to
their homes.

But it was the fallout which the National Capital Region: Key Response Planning
Factors for the Aftermath of Nuclear Terrorism study - held last year -
suggested could be the most fearful aspect.

It suggests that unlike bombs detonated in the Cold War, which were designed to
decimate entire cities, the smaller bomb would leave survivors - and asks, what
would they have to deal with?

The study, which was reported on Gizmodo, points out that radioactive fallout
would vary depending on the time of year.

In April, Washington's Bethesda area would suffer the brunt of the dust, while
throughout the rest of the year, the city's poorer regions and Northern Virginia
would be exposed.

Within 10 to 20 miles of the explosion, radioactive exposure would cause nausea
and vomiting within hours, and death without medical treatment.

But for those near enough to the blast, experiencing more than 800R of
radiation, not seeking shelter immediately would cause deaths with or without
medical treatment, the study found.

People would not be able to evacuate this area as fallout would arrive within
just 10 minutes.

And for those not in this zone, many could die from the effects years later, as
the fallout spreads across the country.

The report worryingly concludes: 'The magnitude of a terrorist attack involving
[such an attack] will overwhelm all response resources.'

It merely offers suggestions on how to survive, such as: 'The best initial
action immediately following a nuclear explosion is to take shelter in the
nearest and most protective building or structure and listen for instructions
from authorities.'

'After an unexplained dazzling flash of light, do not approach windows, and stay
behind cover for at least a minute to prevent injuries from flying and falling
debris, such as broken glass.'

It adds: 'People should expect to remain sheltered for at least 12 to 24 hours.

'During that time, the intensity of fallout radiation will decrease greatly,
allowing for less hazardous egress from dangerous fallout areas.'

The study also shows diagrams of houses and suggests which type of home is best
designed to protect you from radiactive poisoning.

The worst areas are outside home and the tops of apartment blocks, it explains.
Buildings without basements offer 'slight' protection and those with basements
are 'adequate'. Best of all are properties with shelters.

The full report can be seen  here.

WOULD YOU SURVIVE? WHAT WOULD HAPPEN IF D.C. WAS HIT BY A NUKE

The National Capital Region: Key Response Planning Factors for the Aftermath of
Nuclear Terrorism study considers where the most damage would fall if a nuclear
bomb was set off on 16th and K streets, the heart of downtown Washington D.C.:

The Severe Damage Zone (half mile radius): Most buildings destroyed, hazards and
radiation initially prevents entry into the area; low survival likelihood.

The Moderate Damage Zone (half to 1 mile radius): Significant building damage
and rubble, downed utility poles, overturned automobiles, fires, and many
serious injuries. Early medical assistance can significantly improve the number
of survivors.

Light Damage Zone (1 to 3 miles radius): Windows broken, mostly minor injuries
that are highly survavable even without immediate medical care.

LOAD-DATE: April 16, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDM


                   Copyright 2012 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              174 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                   The Mirror

                            March 17, 2012 Saturday
                                 3 Star Edition

SEASIDERS IN HAWK TERROR;
ATTACKS

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 35

LENGTH: 76 words


A DIVE-bombing hawk is terrorising residents of a seaside resort.

The Harris hawk, which escaped from a display team, attacked carpenter Ian
Davies seven times last week, drawing blood.

He said: "It hit me from behind. Its talons got my scalp but I was worried it
might catch my eyes."

Andy Cross, 40, who was also attacked in Ilfracombe, Devon, added: "The force
nearly knocked me over."

Two birds were on the loose but one was caught with a pigeon-baited trap.

LOAD-DATE: March 17, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                            Copyright 2012 MGN Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              175 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring Middle East - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                             March 18, 2012 Sunday

Syrian Christian leaders condemn Damascus "terrorist" attacks

LENGTH: 244 words


Text of report in English by state-run Syrian news agency SANA website;
subheadings as published

["Heads of Christian Denominations in Damascus Condemn Damascus Terrorist
Blasts" - SANA Headline]

Damascus: Heads of the Christian denominations in Damascus condemned the
terrorist attacks which struck Damascus on Saturday [17 March], stressing that
such acts are aimed at destabilizing Syria.

In a statement on Saturday, the Christian bishops in Damascus underlined the
unity of the Syrian people to preserve Syria's security and stability.

"As we condemn this terrorist act, we would like to offer deep condolences to
the bereaved families of martyrs and pray to God to save the injured," the
statement added.

Patriarch Laham and Metropolitan Kwaq denounce Damascus twin blasts

Melkite Greek Catholic Patriarch of Antioch and All the East, and Alexandria and
Jerusalem Gregory III Laham condemned the twin terrorist attacks in Damascus,
describing them as barbaric and criminal.

In a phone call with the Syrian TV, Laham said that Syria will remain strong
under the leadership of President Bashar al-Assad.

Patriarch Laham urged the Syrian people to stand united as the sole way out,
praying to God to protect Syria and the Syrian people from adversities.

For his part, Metropolitan Jean Kwaq condemned the terrorist attacks, expressing
deep grief over the human losses and the regrettable events in Syria.

M. Ismael

Source: SANA news agency website, Damascus in English 17 Mar 12

LOAD-DATE: March 18, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2012 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              176 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring South Asia - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                             March 18, 2012 Sunday

Military convoy escapes terror attack in northwest Pakistan

LENGTH: 81 words


Text of report by Pakistan's private television channel Geo News website on 18
March

Miranshah: A military convoy in South Warisitan Agency narrowly escaped a
terrorist attack on Sunday, Geo News reported.

Reportedly, the Improvised Explosive Device (IED) attack, perpetrated in the wee
hours, was aimed at causing maximum damage to the security personnel and
military paraphernalia, but failed to do so as no casualties were reported.

Source: Geo News TV website, Karachi, in English 18 Mar 12

LOAD-DATE: March 18, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2012 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              177 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring Middle East - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                             March 18, 2012 Sunday

''Terrorists'' attack Syrian city of Aleppo

LENGTH: 53 words


Damascus Syrian Satellite Channel Television in Arabic at 1124 gmt on 18 March
carries the following "breaking" news screen captions: "Terrorist attack between
two residential buildings located behind the post office in Al-Sulaymaniyah in
Aleppo."

Source: Syrian TV satellite service, Damascus, in Arabic 1124 gmt 18 Mar 12

LOAD-DATE: March 18, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2012 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              178 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring Middle East - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                             March 19, 2012 Monday

"Terrorist attacks" in Syrian capital condemned

LENGTH: 3052 words


Text of report in English by state-run Syrian news agency SANA website

["Local, Arab and International Condemnations of Terrorist Bombings Continue" -
SANA Headline]

18 March 2012 - The International Confederation of Arab Trade Unions (ICATU) on
Sunday strongly condemned the two terrorist attacks which hit Damascus yesterday
morning, stressing that they are part of targeting the Syrian people and their
security, stability and national unity.

In a statement of which SANA got a copy, the Union added that the two terrorist
attacks would not have happened without the foreign, Western, Arab and Gulf
support.

The statement stressed that "targeting civilians, the Syrian state institutions
and the stable neighbourhoods is a serious terrorist escalation."

The ICATU said that one of the two terrorist attacks took place near the ICATU
headquarters in al-Qasaa and greatly damaged its building, calling upon all
international organizations and unions to condemn these terrorist attacks.

The statement indicated that this serious escalation goes in line with Syria's
determination to move forwards with reforms, adding that this escalation cannot
be confronted without the Syrian unity and the keenness on dialogue as the only
way out of the crisis in Syria without foreign interference.

National Union of Syrian Students, General Union of Arab Students, al-Ahd
National Party Condemn Damascus Terrorist Blasts

National Union of Syrian Students and the General Union of Arab Students
strongly condemned Damascus terrorist blasts, in which 27 people including
civilians and law enforcement members were martyred and dozens injured.

Both unions underlined that the terrorist attacks will make the Syrians more
determined and adherent to their principled stances.

Al-Ahd National Party condemned the blasts, stressing that the black terrorism
is a manifestation of a destructive scheme that serves the interests of colonial
powers and their allies.

The party said in a statement that the bombings have represented the real image
of the terrorists' culture and co-supporters which spread death and devastation,
underlining the party's adherence to and belief in the national unity.

Syrian Human Rights Network Condemns Terrorist Blasts in Damascus

Syrian Human Rights Network condemned the two terrorist blasts targeted Damascus
Saturday morning, considering them as a form of the foreign-backed opposition's
failure and international conspiracy which ultimately supports terrorism and
violates all human rights principles, the international law and relevant
international pacts.

In a statement, the Network called on human rights organizations which adopt a
one-sided view and have involved in politicization to stop their allegations and
pretend to representing the social promoter of human rights principles after
they tainted with the Syrian blood and terrorism in the country.

It affirmed that all those army members broadcast by channels as being
defectors, have initially been kidnapped by the armed terrorist groups and they
were reading the pre-written defection statements under threats, clarifying that
it has documented several cases by name, date and number.

The Network appealed to the international community with its institutions and
the Human Rights Council in Geneva, saying that what is taking place in Syria
constitutes a violation of human rights principles and the international law ,
as it is a terrorism similar to the terrorist attack took place in the USA on
September 11 2001, which was condemned by the international community.

Busalama and Anza Clans in Syria and Iraq Condemn Two Terrorist Explosions Hit
Damascus

Al-Sada al-Ashraf Busalama and Anza clans in Syria and Iraq condemned the two
terrorist explosions hit Damascus on Saturday, asserting that these crimes
target the security and safety of the Syrian people.

In a statement on Saturday SANA received a copy of, the clans said "Those two
criminal acts, which target Syria's dignity, will increase the Syrian people
commitment to the national principles and rallying around the comprehensive
reform programme led by the Syrian leadership."

Bani Sakhr Clan Denounces the Terrorist Attacks

The Bani Sakhr Clan (al-Khirshan) in Syria and the Arab countries also condemned
the two terrorist attacks committed in Damascus, stressing that Syria will
remain immune to plots and conspirators.

In a statement, the clan pointed out that the enemies of Syria and the Islamic
nation are trying to undermine Syria and its people.

People of the Occupied Syrian Golan Denounce Damascus Terrorist Attacks

During their participation in the Global March for Syria on Saturday, the people
of the occupied Syrian Golan denounced the two terrorist attacks.

During the march, participants said that the explosions are part of the plots
targeting Syria, affirming their commitment to Syria and national unity and
their rejection of any foreign interference in Syria's internal affairs.

They also said that Syria will be victorious under the leadership of President
Bashar al-Assad thanks to the strength and unity of its people and the valiance
of its army.

The participants then headed to the memorial of the Greater Syrian Revolution
Martyrs where they lit candles for the souls of Syria's martyrs.

Syrian Observatory for Victims of Violence and Terrorism, Syrian Consultative
Centre for Studies and Human Rights Condemn Damascus Twin Blasts

The Syrian Observatory for Victims of Violence and Terrorism and the Syrian
Consultative Centre for Studies and Human Rights condemned in the strongest of
terms the twin blasts which rocked Damascus Saturday.

The Syrian Observatory for Victims of Violence and Terrorism held the so-called
"The International Union of Muslim Scholars" responsible for the bloodshed and
increasing tension which goes as far as giving orders for carrying out terrorist
operations and giving the green light to Isranbul Council and its terrorist
groups to kill innocent civilians.

The Observatory denounced the international silence over the terrorism hitting
Syria which does not spare civilians, and the silence of the Human Rights
Council and the humanitarian organizations, considering it as complicity in the
bloodletting in Syria.

For its part, the Syrian Consultative Centre for Studies and Human Rights said
that it has become obvious that the what is happening in Syria is a new chapter
of the conspiracy that adopts the choice of violence and killing.

The Centre indicated that this heinous crime which goes against human ethics and
values coincides with a suspicious closure of embassies 48 hours before the
attacks.

Journalists Union, National Media Council Condemn Damascus Terrorists Bombings

Journalists Union in Syria condemned the two terrorist attacks targeted Damascus
on Saturday morning claiming 24 lives and injuring 140 others, mostly civilians.

The Union said in a statement that the two blasts come in a time while
inflammatory campaigns against Syria are increasing and some foreign sides
announcing the implementation of sabotage acts through calling on citizens not
to leave their homes to foment fear among them.

The statement stressed that the perpetrators of these bombings are linked
immediately to the states which call for arming saboteurs and work to hinder the
international efforts to find political solutions to the crisis in Syria.

The Union urged international community to take its full role in exposing the
lies led by international governments and mass media which continue implementing
their scheme targeting the Syrian society as a unique model at the world level.

The statement concluded by praying for God's mercy on the martyrs' souls and
wished speedy recovery to the wounded, calling on the Syrian people to show more
coherence in the face of this plot.

In a similar statement the National Media Council said that Arab and foreign
media, which are still instigating and misleading people, contrary to the
simplest rules of professional work and media charter of honour, are partners of
those terrorists in their crimes against Syria.

The statement offered condolences to the families of the martyrs and wished
quick recovery to the injured.

Arab Socialist Union Party of Syria: This Terrorism Aims at Hitting the Syrians'
Will

The Arab Socialist Union Party of Syria expressed denunciation of the terrorist
attacks, saying that the terrorism hitting Damascus is aimed at hitting the
Syrian people's will to subjugate it and break its ability to confront the
conspiracy.

Syrian Communist Party (Unified) Condemns The Terrorist Attacks in Damascus

The Syrian Communist Party (Unified) strongly condemned the two terrorist
attacks committed in Damascus on Saturday.

In a statement, the party added that this criminal act aims at undermining the
situation in Syria as a preface to spread chaos before calling for foreign
intervention.

The party stressed that the terrorists won't succeed in undermining the national
unity in Syria with their crimes.

Syria's Scholars Statement 'Strongly' Condemns Damascus Explosions

A statement issued by Syria's Scholars 'strongly' condemned the two terrorist
explosions which hit Damascus stressing that the provocative scholars shoulder
the responsibility for the terrorist acts.

Heads of Syrian Clans Condemn the Terrorist Explosions

Sheikh Abdul-Aziz al-Barak of al-Jabour clan condemned the terrorist explosions
which hit Damascus, stressing that these explosions and other terrorist acts
will not weaken the will of the Syrian people.

Al-Boumajed clan, Al-Marramera clan and al-Khazaelah clan also condemned the
explosions stressing that the Syrian people will remain united and continue
rallying around their leadership against all conspiracies.

Regional Leadership of al-Baath Arab Socialist Party Condemns the two Terrorist
Explosions, Stress Syrian People's Will to Overcome Terrorism

The Regional Leadership of al-Baath Arab Socialist Party condemned the two
terrorist explosions which hit the Syrian people and their secure institutions
and houses.

In a statement, the Regional Leadership considered the explosions as indicative
of terrorism backed from the outside through offering money and ammunition.

People's Assembly Condemn Damascus Terrorist Explosions

The People's Assembly condemned the terrorist explosions which hit Damascus
early in the morning, stressing that such acts are aimed at undermining the
security and stability of the Syrian people.

In a statement, the People's Assembly stressed that such criminal acts will
boost the steadfastness of the Syrian people against all forms of terrorism.

Damascus Chamber of Commerce, Arab Writers Union, General Sport Union and
National Initiative of Syrian Kurds Condemn the Bombings

Condemnations of the terrorist explosions were also expressed in statements
issued by Damascus Chamber of Commerce, the Arab Writers Union, the General
Sport Union and the National Initiative of Syrian Kurds.

The statements firmly condiment the two explosions highlighted the continued war
against Syria and its national and pan-Arab stances waged by the US, Zionism and
the Arab reactionary forces, stressing that building homelands can not be
achieved by means of destruction and sabotage.

Popular Front for the Liberation of Palestine: The Same Killers Committing
Massacres from Gaza to Damascus

For its part, the Popular Front for the Liberation of Palestine, the General
Leadership, condemned the two terrorist bombings, saying it is the same hands of
the killers that are committing massacres stretched from Gaza to Damascus, whose
aim is to assassin the spirit and culture of the Resistance.

A statement by the Front said this crime shows the failure of the conspiracy
against Syria, stressing that "the flames of hatred will backfire on the killers
in Washington, Saudi Arabia and Qatar and all those following their plots
against out nation."

Syrian Community in Jordan Denounces Damascus Terrorist Attacks

The Syrian community in Jordan organized a protest rally outside the Syrian
embassy in Amman to condemn the twin terrorist blasts in Damascus.

A joint statement by the Syrian community and the gathering of Jordan national
powers denounced the terrorist attacks and their mastermind, stressing that
Syria will not bow down.

Syrian Community in Lebanon Denounces the Terrorist Bombings in Damascus

Members of the Syrian community in Lebanon strongly condemned the two terrorist
bombings that took place in Damascus, reiterating their support for reforms and
rejection of foreign interference in Syria's affairs.

Participants in a march to support Syria gathered in front of the Russian
Embassy in Beirut, saluting Russia and China for their support for Syria,
rejecting all the attempts for supporting and arming the terrorist groups, and
denouncing the channels of misdirection that fabricate lies and allegations and
support terrorism.

Syrians in Austria, Slovakia Lebanon Denounce Damascus Terrorist Attacks

Members of the Syrian community in Austria and Vienna strongly denounced the two
terrorism attacks that took place in Damascus, condemning this cowardly act that
shows the frustration of the terrorism and their masters.

During a march in Vienna as part of the Global March for Syria, Syrians decried
the terrorist attacks affirmed their support for their homeland and reforms and
their pride in Syria's national unity.

They also denounced the instigation campaigns and the support provided to
terrorists by some Arab countries, thanking Russia, China and the friendly
countries which stood by Syria in the face of the conspiracy.

Syrian Community in Algeria, Algerians and Tunisian Journalists Denounce
Damascus Terrorist Attacks

Members of the Syrian community in Algeria and Algerians participated in the
Global March for Syria, condemning the terrorist attacks which took place in
Damascus.

Participants gathered in front of the Syrian Embassy in Algeria to affirm
commitment to reforms, stressing that terrorism will not intimidate the Syrian
people and dissuade them from supporting reforms.

They also rejected calls for arming terrorists, eliciting the support of foreign
armies and exploiting human rights to interfere in Syria's affairs.

In turn, Tunisian journalists Kheri al-Nouri and Eskandar Alwani and political
analyst Najib al-Dreizi denounced the two attacks, affirming that they're parts
of the plots targeting Syria for its resistant stances, calling on Syrians to
rally behind its leadership and Arab youths to support Syria.

Syrian Community in Italy Condemn Damascus Terrorist Attacks

Hundreds of Syrians in Italy participated in the Global March for Syria,
marching in the streets of Rome and observing a moment of silence for the
victims of the two terrorist bombing that took place in Damascus.

The participants, who were joined by Archbishop of Jerusalem in Exile Hilarion
Capucci, representatives of peace organizations, and Italian journalists,
expresses sorrow for the deaths caused by terrorist mercenaries carrying out
suspect foreign agendas.

They voiced rejection of foreign interference in Syria's affairs, stressing that
Syria will be victorious over the conspiracy.

Palestinian Liberation Army Staff Condemns Two Damascus Explosions

The Palestinian Liberation Army's General Staff condemned the two explosions
which hit Damascus and stressed that the explosions are a criminal step that
uncovers the conspiracy plotted by some Arab sides and western powers against
Syria.

In Beirut, Maronite General Council Head, former Minister Wadih Khazen denounced
terrorists bombings, affirming that the hands, which tamper with the security
and stability of Syria, are seeking to push things towards the external military
intervention in its affairs.

" What happened of explosions in the heart of Damascus, is a blatant defiance of
the reforms approach launched by President Bashar al-Assad and a mixing of
papers to lead the situation in Syria into a state which is similar to what
happened in Libya, " al-Khazen said.

He pointed out that these sabotage acts which target the civil peace in Syria
represent a crazy state to create an out-of-control sedition.

In Moscow, a number of Russian and Syrian citizens, during a stand in front of
the Russian Foreign Ministry in solidarity with Syria, strongly condemned
Damascus terrorists bombings causing many deaths and injuries.

They stressed that Syria, due to the wisdom of its leadership and people's
awareness, will emerge from this crisis stronger.

A number of Palestinian factions, parties and bodies vehemently condemned
Damascus terrorist bombings, expressing solidarity with Syria in the face of the
plot to which it is exposed with the aim of deterring it from its resistant
national stances.

The factions, in statements, said the blasts indicate the state of failure and
despair reached by the armed opposition in Baba Amr, Idleb and in other areas,
stressing that the Syrian people's high interest lies in the emphasis on
stopping violence, preventing outside interference, supporting comprehensive
reform process and in adhering to the national unity and resisting the Zionist
occupation.

The terrorists bombings also were condemned by several parties, unions,
organizations and clans.

General Union of Farmers Condemns the Terrorist Attacks

The General Union of Farmers also denounced the two terrorist attacks, stressing
that such crimes will not undermine Syria's national and pan-Arab stances under
the leadership of President Bashar al-Assad.

In a statement, the Union pointed out that this crime is a cover for Israel's
crimes in Jerusalem and Gaza Strip amid Arab silence and submission.

The Union added that the purpose of this crime is to exaggerate the events in
Syria in order to pave the way for intervention under fake pretexts as
'defending human rights' and 'insuring humanitarian passages'.

Arab Workers Union Denounces the Terrorist Attacks

Rajab Matouk, General-Secretary of the Arab Workers Union condemned the attacks,
considering them as terrorist acts funded and supported by external sides.

In an interview with the Syrian TV, Matouk added that the attacks prove that the
conspiracy against Syria is in its last stage.

He stressed that the millions of the Syrians who took to streets on Thursday
prove that the Syrians are determined to confront all terrorist acts and achieve
security and stability.

Source: SANA news agency website, Damascus in English 18 Mar 12

LOAD-DATE: March 19, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2012 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              179 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                       March 19, 2012 Monday 4:38 PM GMT

Bombers attack secret police;
SUICIDE bombers attacked two headquarters of the secret police in Damascus last
Saturday, killing 27 people and leaving nearly 100 wounded, according to Syrian
government sources. The bombings appeared to mark a dangerous escalation in
Syria's crisis, just weeks after the regime crushed a rebel stronghold in the
city of Homs. Government spokesmen blamed Islamist terrorists for the attacks,
which they said killed and injured mainly civilians. Many anti-regime activists
believe that similar bombings since January have been staged to give the
government an excuse to crack down on its opponents. The explosions hit the
aviation intelligence department - the most hated branch of Syria's police state
- and the criminal security department, at around 7.30am. State television
showed the aftermath - pools of blood, body parts strewn across streets, and
wrecked and burned vehicles - in gruesome detail. "We heard a huge explosion. At
that moment the doors in our house were blown out, even though we were some
distance from the blast," one elderly man, with a bandage wrapped round his
head, told Syrian television, which also showed what it said was the charred
corpse of a terrorist in a burned vehicle. There were reports of a third bomb
attack targeting a military bus in Damascus. Nobody claimed responsibility for
the attacks. Hours earlier, Kofi Annan had warned that the crisis could soon
spread to neighbouring countries. The former head of the United Nations has been
the latest international figure to attempt a peace mission to Damascus. However,
President Bashar al-Assad's hard core of supporters has rallied, his army has
inflicted setbacks on rebels in Homs and Idlib, and the outside world seems
powerless to influence events. "We are winning on the battlefield, and winning
the battle on television," Mr Assad told supporters. But as the violence
worsens, predictions are being made that Syria will be engulfed by a religious
insurgency. "Opponents of the regime are beginning to realise there will be no
Tahrir Square moment," said Joshua Landis, a Syria scholar at Oklahoma
University. "They are going to have to fight a long battle against a regime that
is not going to crumble. They will move to an insurgency, of hit-and-run attacks
and assassination. It will be more and more Islamicised, with people ready to
sacrifice themselves."

LENGTH: 393 words


SUICIDE bombers attacked two headquarters of the secret police in Damascus last
Saturday, killing 27 people and leaving nearly 100 wounded, according to Syrian
government sources. The bombings appeared to mark a dangerous escalation in
Syria's crisis, just weeks after the regime crushed a rebel stronghold in the
city of Homs. Government spokesmen blamed Islamist terrorists for the attacks,
which they said killed and injured mainly civilians.

Many anti-regime activists believe that similar bombings since January have been
staged to give the government an excuse to crack down on its opponents. The
explosions hit the aviation intelligence department - the most hated branch of
Syria's police state - and the criminal security department, at around 7.30am.
State television showed the aftermath - pools of blood, body parts strewn across
streets, and wrecked and burned vehicles - in gruesome detail. "We heard a huge
explosion. At that moment the doors in our house were blown out, even though we
were some distance from the blast," one elderly man, with a bandage wrapped
round his head, told Syrian television, which also showed what it said was the
charred corpse of a terrorist in a burned vehicle. There were reports of a third
bomb attack targeting a military bus in Damascus. Nobody claimed responsibility
for the attacks. Hours earlier, Kofi Annan had warned that the crisis could soon
spread to neighbouring countries. The former head of the United Nations has been
the latest international figure to attempt a peace mission to Damascus. However,
President Bashar al-Assad's hard core of supporters has rallied, his army has
inflicted setbacks on rebels in Homs and Idlib, and the outside world seems
powerless to influence events. "We are winning on the battlefield, and winning
the battle on television," Mr Assad told supporters. But as the violence
worsens, predictions are being made that Syria will be engulfed by a religious
insurgency. "Opponents of the regime are beginning to realise there will be no
Tahrir Square moment," said Joshua Landis, a Syria scholar at Oklahoma
University. "They are going to have to fight a long battle against a regime that
is not going to crumble. They will move to an insurgency, of hit-and-run attacks
and assassination. It will be more and more Islamicised, with people ready to
sacrifice themselves."

LOAD-DATE: March 20, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTNS


                  Copyright 2012 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              180 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                       March 19, 2012 Monday 10:50 AM GMT

Secularists using Christianity as 'surrogate' for Islamic radicals, says bullish
Rowan Williams;
CHRISTIANS are being targeted by "anxious" athiests because the rise of radical
Islam and terrorist attacks have created a deep-seated suspicion of religion,
the Archbishop of Canterbury said yesterday.

BYLINE: By John Bingham Religious Affairs Editor

LENGTH: 636 words


Dr Rowan Williams said Christians are being viewed with growing suspicion and
treated as "surrogates" for some extremist branches of Islam in the minds of
"anxious secularists".

He also accused the Government of assuming all vicars were "imams in dog
collars" while imams were "vicars in turbans".

His outspoken comments came during his first public service since the
announcement of his decision to stand down as Archbishop at the end of this
year.

They come amid signals that intends to use his final months in office to speak
out forcefully on issues which on which he feels passionate.

One Lambeth Palace source was quoted at the weekend as saying that he was
preparing to "wage war" on the Government over what he sees as social injustice
and a failure to rein in the excesses of the financial world.

Looking relaxed and upbeat, he said he had no fear of criticism and signalled
that he thought the recent controversies had helped trigger a "stirring" within
Christianity.

He made his comments during a Sunday service at Springfield Church, an
alternative Anglican congregation which meets in a school hall rather than a
traditional church building, in Wallington, Surrey.

During an informal discussion with the minister the Revd Will Cookson, he
disclosed that even he had not known that he was about to stand down as
Archbishop until Thursday afternoon when he received the call to tell him he had
been elected Master of Magdalene College, Cambridge.

He said that he had drawn up "shadow" plans for a sudden announcement, allowing
him to contact the Queen and make the necessary announcement before it leaked
out.

Revd Cookson asked him about the recent debate over secularism adding: "Do you
think that the real issue for them isn't necessarily Christianity but actually
radical Islam, that it is more of a reaction to radical Islam and we are the
surrogate for that."

Dr Williams said: "I think there is a lot of truth in [that]. It is the last
decade that has seen the great rise in anxious secularism, a real suspicion of
religion in public.

"And I think it is 9/11 that has brought that to a head. We are also in a
culture where a lot of people simply don't know how religions work.

"I sometimes think the problem with a lot of government initiatives is that they
assume either that vicars are imams in dog collars or imams are vicars in
turbans.

"[They assume] that there is one way of being religious - either you are a sort
of committed fanatic who wants to subvert the whole to your agenda or you are a
sort of woolly liberal who can be persuaded who can be persuaded to go along
with whatever is happening in society.

"The Church isn't either of those things, it is the assembly of Christ's friends
with good news to share."

In a signal that he has no plans to shy away from controversy in his final
months in office, he said that one of the things that had sustained him so far
was a belief that he is "answerable" to God, not the editors of newspapers.

He said that when he was criticised he drew inspiration from the words of a man
he had met who had suffered terribly for taking a stand against apartheid in
South Africa.

Dr Williams told the congregation: "He said 'you get to the point where you know
that they can't tough you ' - he knew who he was answerable to.

"In a tiny, tiny way I understand one millimetre's worth of what that means."

He was also bullish about the future role of the Church in British society
adding that the recent controversies over secularism had led to a "stirring"
within Christianity.

"I am hopeful ... because I see so many good things at grass roots and the sense
that the Church is stirring in all kinds of ways," he said.

"That the Church remains in extraordinary ways, often in the most deprived and
challenging communities, a place that people can trust."

LOAD-DATE: March 20, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTNS


                  Copyright 2012 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              181 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                 BBC Monitoring Former Soviet Union - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                             March 20, 2012 Tuesday

Syrian authorities have to respond to terror attacks - Russia's Lavrov

LENGTH: 405 words


Text of report by corporate-owned Russian news agency Interfax

Moscow, 20 March: Russian Foreign Minister Sergey Lavrov thinks that Al-Qa'idah
could be behind the latest terrorist attacks in Syria and that under these
conditions it is wrong to urge the country's government to lay down arms.

In his interview with the Kommersant FM radio station, Lavrov compared the
situation in Syria with that in Yemen, where there is an agreed consolidating
structure and "no-one questions the powers of these authorities".

"That is where the difference is, and that is what we want for Syria. But when
attacks like those that took place yesterday and the day before yesterday in
Damascus and Aleppo are carried out, how can you demand from the authorities to
lay down arms?" the minister said.

"Under the conditions of these attacks, I thank that one cannot but react to
such manifestations - and I think this is the modus operandi of Al-Qa'idah, if I
understand correctly what is happening - otherwise people will simply live in
constant fear," he stressed.

The minister thinks that, if the current regime in Syria collapses, "there will
be a great temptation and a lot of pressure from some countries of the region in
favour of establishing a Sunni regime in the country". "In that situation, we
would be concerned about the fate of the Christians," he noted, adding that
there are also Kurds, Alawites and Druze there.

Lavrov suggested that in that case similar processes could occur in Lebanon and
Iraq.

[RIA Novosti news agency, Moscow, in Russian 1613 gmt 20 Mar 12 quoted Lavrov as
saying: "If a comprehensive all-Syria dialogue is launched, which would involve
all representatives of the opposition and the government without exception (like
everyone is saying and proposing), then all issues should be resolved in this
dialogue, including the issue of who will lead Syria during a transition period,
as it was in Yemen".

However, "given the complete fragmentation of the Syrian opposition, there is no
clear answer to the question of how it will look like and who will lead the
process," Lavrov noted, adding that "in NATO, the EU and some Western states the
Syrian situation is seen as half hopeless. At the same time, they do not want
those who listen to them at the negotiating table. That is the problem".]

Sources: Interfax news agency, Moscow, in Russian 1600 gmt 20 Mar 12; RIA
Novosti news agency, Moscow, in Russian 1613 gmt 20 Mar 12

LOAD-DATE: March 20, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2012 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              182 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                   MailOnline

                      March 20, 2012 Tuesday 12:55 AM GMT

Ensure probe into terror attack is above board

BYLINE: ADITYA MENON

LENGTH: 1046 words


Saturday's order by the chief metropolitan magistrate asking police officials
why they were not wearing uniforms while interrogating terror suspect Syed
Mohammad Ahmad Kazmi is the latest twist to the investigation into the February
13 attack on an Israeli diplomatic vehicle in the capital.

The CMM, Vinod Yadav, also ordered the Delhi Police to maintain a list of people
interrogating Kazmi, indicating the court's lack of confidence in the manner in
which the probe is being carried out.

Cell Now, it is quite possible that the Delhi Police are on the right track and
that they possess enough evidence linking Kazmi to the attack.

But if our past experience with terror investigations has taught us anything, it
is that questions such as 'who is conducting the probe?' and 'how is the probe
being conducted?' are as important as the evidence being gathered.

Given the case's international profile, it should have been handled by the
National Investigation Agency, which was created as a specialised anti-terror
outfit in the aftermath of the 26/11 terror strike.

Instead it was given to the Delhi Police's infamous Special Cell. Not wearing
uniforms while interrogating a suspect is probably the least of their faults.

According to data elicited through an RTI query, the Cell has a pathetic
conviction rate of 30 per cent. Therefore in a case in which the world's eyes
are on India, this isn't exactly the agency you would turn to.

Take for instance the Delhi High Court blast case that was assigned to it. In
December last year, the Special Cell came back with a bang after a three year
lull following the 2008 Batla House encounter, by nabbing seven alleged Indian
Mujahideen operatives from Bihar whom it believed to be involved in the HC blast
as well as the terror strike near Bangalore's Chinnaswamy stadium.

The 'hero' of this resurrection was Additional DCP Sanjeev Yadav, who was
brought back to the Special Cell in September 2011. Yadav, who is heading the
probe into the attack on the Israeli diplomat, was incidentally involved in the
Batla House case.

However, the Cell's claims on the HC blast were belied when the NIA filed its
chargesheet in the case last month, with none of the men from Bihar figuring in
it.

The uneven track record of Additional DCP Sanjeev Yadav goes beyond his
involvement in the controversial Batla House encounter.

In January this year, the National Human Rights Commission indicted Yadav and
his team for killing five 'notorious gangsters' from Meerut in a fake encounter
in the Khajuri Khas area of Northeast Delhi in 2006.

Early last year, Yadav, then ACP Mehrauli, was transferred after a vigilance
inquiry found that the police in the area were hand-in-glove with the oil mafia.

Assisting Yadav in the arrest of Kazmi, as well as the Bihar raids, were
Inspectors Lalit Mohan Negi and Hriday Bhushan.

An integral part of deceased ACP Rajbir Singh's team which also included Mohan
Chand Sharma, who was killed in the Batla House encounter, the two have gained
notoriety for being encounter specialists, in other words, trigger happy.

Negi and Bhushan also got embroiled in two mix-ups involving their informers.
The first came to light in 2007, when the CBI found Special Cell officer
Ravinder Tyagi and three of his colleagues guilty of framing two police
informers as Al-Badr militants.

The CBI noted that the guilty policemen, in order to nab the duo, posed as Negi
and Bhushan, who were in touch with the informers.

The second instance occurred in January this year when another of their
informers, Naquee Ahmed, was held by the Maharashtra ATS in connection with the
13/7 Mumbai blast. Even DCP (Crime) Ashok Chand, to unblemished record.

He was leading the probe into the Parliament attack case, which will be
remembered as much for the ghastly attack on the symbol of Indian democracy, as
the wrongful incarceration of Delhi University lecturer SAR Geelani. Inspectors
Negi and Bhushan were part of Chand's team.

Incidentally, Chand - who headed the Special Cell from 1998-2005 - was also
allegedly involved in framing journalist Iftikhar Gilani in 2002.

Needless to say this has provided Kazmi's supporters enough ammunition to draw
comparisons between the two cases. The manner in which they have gone about the
probe so far doesn't inspire confidence either.

Take for instance the timing of Kazmi's arrest. The journalist was picked up
from the India Islamic Cultural Centre a little before noon on March 6. But the
recorded time and place of arrest is 8.30 pm at his residence in BK Dutt Colony.

The distance between the two places is about 2.5 km, which would not take nine
hours to cover even if the policemen decided to crawl on the road. Where was
Kazmi taken for those nine hours?

What followed the arrest was a predictable tale of police opaqueness accompanied
by selective leaks to sections of the media, a routine that was perfected during
the Parliament attack probe.

Consider this. On March 10, a leading daily quoted a nameless 'senior police
officer' as having asserted that Kazmi's name figured in the call list of Saied
Moradi, one of the 'Bangkok bombers'.

This was contradicted the very next day by another daily, which cited a 'source
in the agencies conducting the probe' as saying that Kazmi's name did not figure
in the bomber's call list.

Since Special Cell officers have a history of posing as one another to frame
people, anonymous statements contradicting each other do not come as a surprise.

However, the tactic of selective leaks worked wonders. When Kazmi was presented
at the Tis Hazari court on March 7, a reporter asked Sanjeev Yadav, 'Iss gaddaar
ka kya hoga? (What's going to happen to this traitor?)' And the trial has not
even begun.

However, those chanting 'Free Kazmi' are treading the same path by taking his
innocence as a foregone conclusion.

Just as the dubious background of the Special Cell officers does not by itself
mean that they are lying, Kazmi's impeccable credentials as a journalist do not
necessarily imply that he couldn't have had anything to do with the attack.

But the moot issue here is that in a delicate case with international
ramifications, the probe should be conducted using above-board means, that too
by an agency whose credibility is not open to question.

LOAD-DATE: April 16, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDM


                   Copyright 2012 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              183 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                               The Sun (England)

                             March 20, 2012 Tuesday
                                   Edition 2;
                                National Edition

CALL OF EVIL;
EXCLUSIVE Maniacs plot terror attacks on war game Nuts hide plans by playing
internet fave

BYLINE: DAVID WILLETTS; TOM WELLS

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 403 words


TERRORISTS are using online war games like Call of Duty to plot attacks, The Sun
can reveal.

Islamic extremists know cops monitor phone calls, emails and online messages.

So they are turning to PlayStation and Xbox games to keep their deadly plans
secret.

Gamers can log on in groups to play against each other and - crucially - to chat
in private.

Once signed in to a "lobby" using a password, plotters put on Bluetooth headsets
and speak securely to conspirators on the same site. Other shoot-'em-up games
suspected of being targeted by terrorists are thought to be Medal of Honour and
the Halo series.

Last night, a source said: "It's a terrifying reality. These people waste no
time finding a secure method of chatting. They are logging into group games over
the internet and discussing terror plots. Security people know about it.

"For millions who love these games this will be a huge shock.

"To think fanatics use them for their own ends is a real worry."

Sources say plotters choose realistic conflict games so they can mask their
deadly discussions as harmless web chat.

There has even been evidence would-be jihadists treat war games as training
tools, a bit like a pilot might use a flight simulator.

News of the growing threat comes five years after the CIA first warned of the
menace.

But with the soaring popularity of the games, there are now fears they are being
used by increasing numbers of criminals and terrorists.

Last night government sources said police and spy chiefs were already responding
to the threat.

A security expert revealed: "Those who fight crime and terrorism keep up to date
with technological changes."

The terrorists choose incredibly realistic "first person games" where the
controller works through a complex simulation of war scenarios, carrying out
missions and battling enemy fighters.

Gamers choose different styles of play and missions - from planting bombs to
fighting one-on-one.

Then they enter the lobby and invite their friends to join in.

Call of Duty addicts can even join "clans" - groups who regularly play together.

The games use a passwordprotected log-on to keep users' identities secret. The
system was designed so players anywhere on the globe can get together for
harmless fantasy battles.

But security chiefs now fear plotters are set to turn those fantasies into
reality.

d.willetts@the-sun.co.uk

40M people play call of Duty online

£250M What call of Duty: MW3 made in 24hours

LOAD-DATE: March 20, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Target ... war games

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: SUN


                    Copyright 2012 NEWS GROUP NEWSPAPERS LTD
                              All Rights Reserved

                              184 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring Middle East - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                            March 21, 2012 Wednesday

Iraqi Speaker concerned over ''terrorist attacks'' ahead of Arab summit

LENGTH: 674 words


Baghdad Al-Iraqiyah Satellite Television in Arabic, in its evening newscasts on
20 March, reports on Speaker Usamah al-Nujayfi's statement saying that the
reoccurrence of terrorist attacks aims to foil hosting the Arab summit in
Baghdad; Interior Ministry Senior Undersecretary Adnan al-Asadi's statement
saying that the security apparatuses of the defence and interior ministries and
the intelligence agency are fully prepared to render the security plan made for
the Arab summit successful; the Baghdad Operations Command's announcement that
over 100 planes were allocated to secure air cover for the duration of the Arab
summit; and other political and security developments.

Political developments

Within its 1300 gmt newscast, the channel carries the following reports:

- "Speaker Usamah al-Nujayfi has stated that the reoccurrence of terrorist
attacks aims at foiling the aspirations to hold the national meeting and
proximity talks, as well as foil hosting the Arab summit in Baghdad. Moreover,
Al-Nujayfi expressed his concern towards the increase of terrorist attacks that
target the sons of Iraq, describing their perpetrators as obscurants and
murderers."

- "UN Special Envoy to Iraq Martin Kobler has urged Iraqis to endure the
attempts to disturb the peace and stability of Iraq. Kobler, who condemned
today's bombings, pointed out that these crimes, which target Iraqi citizens,
are completely unacceptable. He also emphasized the importance of exerting
efforts to uncover the identity of the perpetrators of these acts of violence
and present them to justice."

- "Government Spokesman Ali al-Dabbagh has stated that government departments,
universities, and schools in Baghdad will be on holiday starting Sunday 25 March
until 1 April 2012. Al-Dabbagh explained that this decision was made to lighten
traffic jams in Baghdad and enable the preparatory committees of the Arab summit
to perform their duties."

Within its 1700 gmt newscast, the channel carries the following reports:

- "Interior Ministry Senior Undersecretary Adnan al-Asadi has stated that the
security apparatuses of the defence and interior ministries and the intelligence
agency are fully prepared to render the security plan made for the Arab summit
scheduled to be held in Baghdad successful. Al-Asadi explained that the
terrorist attacks revealed many plans made by terrorists and foiled dozens of
attacks that were to take place over the next few days."

- "Qays al-Azzawi, Iraq's permanent envoy to the Arab League, has stated that
most Arab presidents will attend the Baghdad summit scheduled to be held by the
end of this month. During his meeting with a number of Arab journalists, who
will cover the Baghdad summit, Al-Azzawi pointed out that the summit will
witness a distinguished presence of Arab diplomacy in Baghdad."

Security developments

Within its 1300 gmt newscast, the channel carries the following reports:

- "According to a statement issued by the Baghdad Operations Command [BOC], from
which the Al-Iraqiyah Television received a copy, a number of citizens were
martyred and wounded as a result of two terrorist attacks using two
booby-trapped cars in the Al-Alawi and Al-Salihiyah areas at central Baghdad.
Moreover, the statement said that the security forces were able to defuse six
booby-trapped cars in the Al-Rashid, Al-Mahmudiyah, and Al-Latifiyah
Sub-districts, adding that two terrorists riding two booby-trapped cars in the
Al-Khadra Neighbourhood were arrested."

- "The BOC has announced that over 100 planes were allocated to secure air cover
during the days of the Arab summit. Lieutenant-General Hasan Salman Khalifah,
BOC chief of staff, told the Al-Sabah newspaper that the command of the Iraqi
Air Force was completely handed over to the BOC. He added that Iraqi planes are
currently monitoring the airspace throughout the day, noting that they are
prepared to provide air and land protection and take part in other operations,
such as transferring the delegations, if needed."

Source: Al-Iraqiyah TV, Baghdad, in Arabic 1300 gmt 20 Mar 12

LOAD-DATE: March 21, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2012 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              185 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring Middle East - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                            March 21, 2012 Wednesday

Palestinian prime minister denounces "terrorist" attack in Toulouse

LENGTH: 191 words


Text of report by independent, non-governmental Palestinian Ma'an News Agency
website

["Fayyad: We reject attempt to establish linkage between crimes and children of
Palestine"]

Ramallah, 21 March - In response to statements attributed to the man suspected
of carrying out the Toulouse operation, in which he said he was acting in
retaliation for the killing of children by the occupation in Palestine, Dr Salam
Fayyad, Palestinian prime minister, rejected any link between the Toulouse
operation and the children of Palestine.

Fayyad denounced the shooting in the French city of Toulouse, which claimed the
lives of four Jews, as a "terrorist" act against innocent people.

In a press release, a copy of which reached Ma'an, Fayyad said no Palestinian
children would accept any crime against innocent people, adding: "It is time for
these criminals to desist from carrying out their 'terrorist' attacks in the
name of Palestine or in support of the rights of Palestinian children, who want
nothing more than to lead an honourable life along with all the children of the
world."

Source: Ma'an News Agency website, Bethlehem, in Arabic 1042 gmt 21 Mar 12

LOAD-DATE: March 21, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2012 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              186 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                          The Daily Telegraph (London)

                            March 21, 2012 Wednesday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

Terrorists may attack Olympic sites outside London, warns MI5

BYLINE: Tim Ross; Robert Winnett

SECTION: NEWS; DIARY; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 338 words


TERRORISTS could attack Olympic venues outside London at this summer's games,
security sources have warned.

The head of MI5 took the rare step of briefing the whole Cabinet on the
terrorism threat to the UK in the run-up to the Olympics.

Theresa May, the Home Secretary, also updated colleagues on legislative efforts
to address the threat from terrorism.

The main Olympic Park in east London will be protected by a security operation
unprecedented in peacetime, including the possible deployment of missile
batteries to protect the capital from attack from the air.

The Daily Telegraph understands that senior security officials are concerned
that other sites could become targets.

Olympic and Paralympic rowing events will take place at Eton Dorney, near
Windsor Castle, 25 miles west of the capital, road cycling will be held at
Brands Hatch racing circuit in Kent, while sailing events will be based in
Weymouth. Other venues include stadiums in Newcastle upon Tyne, Coventry,
Cardiff, and Manchester.

Jonathan Evans, the MI5 director-general, briefed Cabinet ministers during a
40-minute meeting in Parliament yesterday. It is thought to be the first time Mr
Evans has addressed a full meeting of the Prime Minister's senior team.

Downing Street played down the meeting, describing Mr Evans's briefing as a
"routine" update.

It was not prompted by new intelligence or a change in the assessment of the
terrorism threat level, which remained "substantial", a spokesman said.

Mr Evans had provided "an overall assessment of the current terrorist threat to
the UK".

Mr Cameron's spokesman added: "There was some discussion of the Olympics and
preparations in that context."

The military and police have held a number of training exercises for the Olympic
security operation.

Counter-terrorism officers are also facing an unpredictable threat from "lone
wolf" attackers. They are seen as posing some of the greatest risks to Olympics
security because they do not operate under the direction of al-Qaeda and remain
undetected before an attack.

LOAD-DATE: March 21, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DTL


                  Copyright 2012 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              187 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                      March 21, 2012 Wednesday 1:31 PM GMT

Al-Qaeda attacks in Europe since September 11;
With the US declaration of the war on terror, in the wake of the September 11
attacks in 2001, Europe has become an increasingly prominent arena for Islamic
extremist attacks.

BYLINE: By Paul Carsten

LENGTH: 483 words


November, 2003 - The first major strike after 9/11 occurs in the Turkish city of
Istanbul. Four truck bombs were explode on the 15th and 20th, the first two at
synagogues and the others at the British Consulate and HSBC's headquarters in
Turkey. The total death toll is 57 people and 700 wounded. Directly linked to
al-Qaeda, some of the 74 people charged by the Turkish authorities had met with
Osama bin Laden, asking for al-Qaeda's blessing help.

March 11, 2004 - A similar, more deadly tragedy hits Madrid in Spain. A series
of near-simultaneous explosions tear through trains carrying morning commuters
in Madrid. Killing 191 people and injuring 1,800, the bombings are the worst
terrorist attack to have hit Europe. The perpetrators claimed they were inspired
by the work of al-Qaeda.

July 7, 2005 - Britain is also scarred by a major terrorist attack upon its
soil. Four suicide bombers, three of them born in West Yorkshire, carry out a
devastating strike on three London Underground trains and a double-decker bus in
central London. The lives of 56 people are snatched away, and nearly 700 people
are wounded. Two weeks later four other bombings are attempted, again targeting
London's public transport system. Fortunately, the detonators fail to ignite the
explosives and there are no casualties.

August, 2006 - British police foil a terrorist plot to explode at least ten
trans-Atlantic aeroplanes carrying passengers to North America. Three men are
later found guilty of conspiracy to murder and sentenced to life imprisonment.
The arrest and conviction took more than a year of surveillance by hundreds of
MI5 and police officers, and the frustrated attack was directly linked to
al-Qaeda.

June 29, 2007 - Britain's police forces again successfully thwart a planned
terrorist bombing, when two cars carrying bombs are discovered and the
explosives disabled.

June 30, 2007 - Two men drive a car loaded with propane canisters into the
terminal of Glasgow International Airport and set it ablaze. Apprehended by
authorities, the only fatality is one of the perpetrators, killed by his severe
burns. The incidents in London and Glasgow were carried out by the same men.

September, 2010 - Authorities announce they have uncovered and managed to thwart
another al-Qaeda threat to the UK, France and Germany, which aimed to
co-ordinate attacks upon the countries.

March, 2012 - In the Toulouse region of France, a jihadist gunman shoots dead
three soldiers and severely injures another before making his getaway on a
scooter. On March 20, he opens fire on adults and children gathered outside a
Jewish school in Toulouse, killing Rabbi Jonathan Sandler, his sons Arieh, 5,
and Gabriel, 4, and seven-year-old Miriam Monsonego.

LOAD-DATE: March 22, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTNS


                  Copyright 2012 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              188 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                      March 21, 2012 Wednesday 6:45 AM GMT

Olympics: MI5 briefs Cabinet amid fears of attacks outside London;
Terrorists could target Olympic venues outside London in a plot to attack
spectators and athletes at this summer's Games, security sources have warned.

BYLINE: By Tim Ross and Robert Winnett

LENGTH: 560 words


The head of MI5 took the rare step of briefing the whole Cabinet on the
terrorism threat to the UK in the run up to the Olympics.

Theresa May, the Home Secretary, also updated colleagues on legislative efforts
to address the threat from terrorism.

The main Olympic Park in east London will be protected by the biggest peace-time
security operation ever seen, including the possible deployment of missile
batteries to protect the capital from attack from the air.

However, The Daily Telegraph understands that senior security officials have
become concerned that other sites around the country could also become targets.

Olympic and Paralympic rowing events will take place at Eton Dorney, near
Windsor Castle, 25 miles west of the capital, road cycling will be held at
Brands Hatch racing circuit in Kent, while sailing events will be based in
Weymouth.

Other venues include stadiums in Newcastle, Coventry, Cardiff, and Manchester.

During a 40-minute meeting in Parliament yesterday, the MI5 director-general,
Jonathan Evans, briefed Cabinet ministers on the threats facing the country in
the period leading up to the Games.

It is thought to be the first time that Mr Evans has addressed a full meeting of
the Prime Minister senior team.

Downing Street played down the meeting, describing Mr Evans's briefing as a
"routine" update. It was not prompted by new intelligence or a change in the
assessment of the terrorism threat level, which remained "substantial", a Number
10 spokesman said.

Mr Cameron's official spokesman said Mr Evans had provided "an overall
assessment of the current terrorist threat to the UK".

He added: "There was some discussion of the Olympics and preparations in that
context.

"It was a broad discussion about terrorism and an assessment of the current
threat and a run-through of the various issues that the Government is dealing
with on the legislative side, such as the fact that we have replaced control
orders with TPIMS (Terrorism Prevention and Investigation Measures) and the
various measures that are being considered in the context of the security and
justice Bill."

Mr Evans regularly takes part in meetings of the National Security Council -
created by Mr Cameron shortly after the 2010 election to bring together senior
ministers, security chiefs and military top brass at 10 Downing Street.

But the Number 10 spokesman said: "The Prime Minister is keen that some of those
discussions that would generally happen at the NSC are occasionally brought to
the full Cabinet, so that those Cabinet ministers who are not members of
National Security Council are briefed and get an opportunity to discuss the
issues."

The military and police have been preparing for the Olympic security operation
since London was awarded the Games in 2005.

Royal Marines have held training exercises to prepare for a possible terrorist
attack using the River Thames.

During an exercise in January, security teams in speed boats practised storming
a river cruiser and climbing onto its roof, with air support from Navy
helicopters.

Counter terrorism officers are also facing an unpredictable threat from "lone
wolf" attackers, who have radicalised themselves.

They are seen as posing some of the greatest risks to Olympics security because
they are not operating under the direction of al Qaida and remain undetected
before launching an attack.

LOAD-DATE: March 22, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTNS


                  Copyright 2012 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              189 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring Middle East - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                            March 22, 2012 Thursday

Syrian state media reports on "terrorist" groups' attacks in Homs, Hamah

LENGTH: 444 words


Text of report in English by state-run Syrian news agency SANA website;
subheading as published

["Two Children Martyred, Abducted Citizens Murdered, Three Law Enforcement
Members Injured, Weapons Co..." - SANA Headline]

Provinces, (SANA) - Child Yahya Abdul-Alem al-Ghantawi and his brother Bilal
were martyred Wednesday [21 March] when an armed terrorist group attacked a
minicab at al-Qusur neighbourhood in Homs.

A source at the Military Hospital in Homs told SANA reporter that the attack
also led to the injuring of three citizens, among them the driver as they were
immediately admitted to the hospital.

Also in Homs, armed terrorist groups committed a new massacre, brutally
murdering a number of citizens who had been abducted earlier.

After committing massacres, these groups resort to filming the bodies of their
victims and sending the footage to certain channels that exploit it to fuel
their campaign against Syria and frame law-enforcement forces.

Families of other abductees whose whereabouts are still unknown voiced worry
over the fates of their children, fearing that they might end up like the
abductees that were murdered and mutilated.

Three law enforcement members injured by explosive device in Daraa [Dar'a].

Three law enforcement members were injured by an explosive device planted by an
armed terrorist group on Daraa-al-Sad road.

SANA reporter quoted a source as saying that members of the military engineering
unit dismantled a 15-KG explosive planted by an armed terrorist group at the
northern entrance of Dael town.

The authorities on Wednesday morning found the body of female citizen Wissal
Salti al-Zu'bi, 40, hit by a bullet, on al-Mizerib-Tafas road.

Authorities confiscate weapons, raid workshop for manufacturing explosives in
Hamah

The authorities confiscated a large amount of weapons and ammo, some of them
Israeli-made, and raided a workshop used for manufacturing explosives in
al-Hamidiye neighbourhood in Hama city.

An official source said that during their pursuit of armed terrorist groups in
al-Hamidiye neighbourhood, the authorities confiscated assault rifles,
pump-action shotguns, machine-guns, RPG launchers and rounds, and ammunition,
along with offensive and defensive grenades, some of them Israeli-made.

The authorities also recovered private and state-owned vehicles which the
terrorist stole and used them to commit their crimes.

In the same neighbourhood, the authorities raided a house which terrorists used
as a workshop to manufacture explosive devices. Upon their discovery, the
terrorists detonated explosive charges in this workshop.

Mazen / H. Sabbagh

Source: SANA news agency website, Damascus in English 22 Mar 12

LOAD-DATE: March 22, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2012 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              190 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                              Lancashire Telegraph

                            March 24, 2012 Saturday

Mother describes terror of racist knife attack in darwen

SECTION: DARWEN (DARWEN)

LENGTH: 290 words


A MOTHER has described her family's terror at a racist knife attack on their
newsagents.

Nazna Patel, 44, said she is now scared to work alone at Dixon's News in
Duckworth Street, Darwen, after two raiders threatened her son in the shop with
an eight-inch knife.

Mrs Patel was working alongside her husband Bashir Alli Patel, 52, when the
incident happened at 8.30pm.

She said: "They came in screaming and shouting like football hooligans. They
were drinking alcohol and spilling it on the floor, so my husband asked them to
leave. He said he wanted no trouble.

"Then they started being aggressive and knocked biscuits and crisps off shelves
and pushed the chewing gum stand off the counter, shouting racially abusive
things at us.

"A customer who was in the shop took one of the lads out, but he came back in,
and started punching my husband in the stomach."

Mr and Mrs Patel's 18-year-old son Mohammed Saleh heard the commotion from a
back room, and came to intervene.

Mrs Patel said: "My son was stood behind the counter and asked if I was okay.
Then one of the lads went berserk and pulled a knife out at him.

"He said he was going to kill him, and started to lunge at him with the knife,
but my husband managed to grab his hand and took the knife away.".

She said the teenagers then ran off.

Police said they were called to the shop to reports of a disturbance on Tuesday,
and two people were later arrested and later charged in connection with the
incident.

One, a 19-year-old, has been charged with racially aggravated fear or
provocation of violence, and a 17-year-old boy has been charged with possession
of a knife blade or sharp pointed article in a public place.

Both have been bailed and will appear at Blackburn Magistrates Court on April 5.

LOAD-DATE: July 16, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2012 NewsQuest Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              191 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                      March 24, 2012 Saturday 8:23 PM GMT

Brother of Toulouse gunman Mohamed Merah 'dined with him' before Jewish school
shooting;
The brother of Mohamed Merah, the Toulouse gunman who killed seven people in
nine days of terrorist attacks, dined with his sibling hours before he murdered
four people at a Jewish school.

BYLINE: By Harriet Alexander In Toulouse

LENGTH: 304 words


Abdelkader Merah, 29, denies any knowledge of his brother's planned attacks. But
the Frenchman of Algerian descent told police he was "proud" of his younger
sibling.

French authorities say he was present when Mohamed, 23, stole the motorbike,
which was used in the shootings. Abdelkader has admitted accompanying Mohamed to
a Yamaha dealership to ask about removing the scooter's tracking device.

On Sunday evening the pair enjoyed a lengthy dinner together. Early the next
morning, Mohamed drove a stolen scooter to the Ozar-Hatorah school and coldly
assassinated a rabbi and three children. When seven-year-old Myriam Monsonego
tried to run away, Merah chased her, grabbed her and fired point blank into her
head.

Abdelkader's mobile phone was found discarded near the school, police sources
told Le Parisien newspaper.

Mohamed's central Toulouse flat was raided in the early hours of Wednesday
morning, and Abdelkader was taken into custody along with his wife Yamina, 30,
and his mother, Zoulaikha.

Their mother was released on Friday night, but Abdelkader and his wife were
taken to Paris for further questioning.

Yamina is reported to have told police: "If my husband is a violent Salafist,
then I have been completely deceived as I never suspected anything."

Abdelkader, however, was well known to police for supporting jihadist causes. In
2007 he was arrested for supporting jihadists travelling to Iraq. But he was
never charged.

However, Saturday's revelations about the mobile phone, the dinner on the eve of
the shooting, and the complicity in the theft of the motorbike raise serious
questions about Abdelkader's role in the assassinations.

French investigators have the right to detain him, as part of a terrorist
investigation, for 96 hours of questioning.

It is not yet clear what he could be charged with, if anything.

LOAD-DATE: March 25, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTNS


                  Copyright 2012 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              192 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                   MailOnline

                       March 25, 2012 Sunday 3:29 PM GMT

French Al Qaeda fanatic's brother is charged over terror attack which left seven
dead

BYLINE: PETER ALLEN

LENGTH: 1347 words



     ·    'Very proud' brother of Merah charged after explosives found in his
          car
     ·    Video shows spread of bullet holes across wall of flat where Merah
          lived
     ·    Attacks on Jewish graves across France linked to Toulouse killings
     ·    Murderer killed seven victims with close-range bullet shots to the
          head


The brother of Toulouse gunman Mohammed Merah appeared before an anti-terrorist
judge today and was formally charged with 'complicity in murder'.

Meanwhile the fall-out from last week's massascre has led to an escalation in
religious tension, with Jewish graves being desecrated across France.

Riot police have also been called to housing estates on the outskirts of major
cities like Paris because of anti-Semitic demonstrations being held in support
of the 23-year-old killer.

Abdelkader Merah, the 29-year-old brother of Mohammed, appeared in court today
after allegations that he was close to a Jewish school last Monday when his
23-year-old sibling gunned down a Rabbi, his two children, and a teenage pupil.

He is also believed to have assisted his brother in an attack on French
paratroopers, which saw three shot dead.

Under conditions of utmost security in central Paris this morning, Abdelkader
Merah was driven to the Palais de Justice in an armoured convoy.

There a criminal investigation was opened which could see the self-confessed
Islamic extremist jailed for life.

In a statement read out soon afterwards, the Paris Prosecutor's Office said:
'The investigations being handled by the police have established the existence
of serious evidence against Abdelkader Merah corroborating, or making plausible,
his participation as an accomplice in the commission of crimes in connection
with a terrorist enterprise.'

Abdelkader was remanded in custody, and taken to a high-security prison in
Paris, where he is likely to remain until his trial.

Adbelkader has already told police interrogators that he was 'very proud' of
what Merah did, and admitted to dining with him just before the attack on the
Ozar Hatorah school in Toulouse.

'Signals from Abdelkader's mobile phone were emitted close to the school at the
time of the murders,' said an investigating source.

Among numerous questions Abedelkader is facing is how Merah got hold of an
arsenal of weapons, including an Uzi sub-machine gun, and even the kind of Sten
gun used by British soldiers during the Second World War.

It is also believed that Abdekkader also helped his brother buy the Yamaha T-Max
motorbike used in all the attacks, and to respray the vehicle and remove its
tracking device.

Meanwhile, new video footage released by police shows the inside of the Toulouse
apartment where Mohammed Merah had his last stand.

The chaotic flat is cluttered with furniture strewn across each room blocking
the way, and one wall is peppered in what looks like bullet holes.

Merah is being held up as an martyr in some quarters, with Jewish cemeteries
targeted in attacks which police are linking to the Merah atrocities.

On Thursday night Stars of David - a symbol of Judaism - were torn off some 30
graves in the eastern Jewish cemetery in the Mediterranean city of Nice.

Lanterns were also stolen from more than 20 sealed tombs in the same cemetery,
with local police commissioner Hergot Nicolas saying all were targeted 'because
they are Jewish, while Christian graves nearby were ignored.'

David Shoushana, the chief rabbi in Nice, said there had been similar attacks on
other cemeteries since Merah was shot dead on Thursday, adding that there was a
'possible connection with the Toulouse killings.'

Also on Thursday, graffiti including 'Long Live Merah' and 'Vengeance!' appeared
on a prominent wall in the Paris suburb of Sartrouville as youths gathered to
'honour' the killer.

'They were mainly kids who are trying to make a political point out of these
horrific crimes,' said a local police spokesman.

'Police have broken up similar gatherings on other estates around Paris, and
other cities, where Merah is being portrayed by a tiny minority as martyr.'

POSTHUMOUS WEDDING FOR TRAGIC VICTIM OF MERAH

The girlfriend of one of Merah's victims said she intended to marry her partner
in a posthumous ceremony.

Caroline Monet, 21, has been given presidential permission to wed 25-year-old
Corporal Abel Chennouf, who was shot dead at a cash machine in the town of
Montauban, near Toulouse, this month.

Her lawyer, Gilbert Collard, said Ms Monet had received approval from President
Nicolas Sarkozy for the ceremony to take place.

Posthumous marriages are unusual in France, but they can be sanctioned in 'grave
circumstances', said Mr Collard.

'I've already had it done twice, for policemen's girlfriends,' he said.

'It's a really moving ceremony with an empty chair representing the dead spouse.

'There won't be any problems with approval, and the marriage will allow the new
child to have a father.'

A teacher from Rouen, in northern France, was also suspended after organising a
minute's silence for Mehar, saying he was a 'victim' who had a difficult
childhood on an immigrant housing estate in Toulouse.

Merah, who filmed himself carrying out the executions of four Jewish people and
three French soldiers who had fought in Afghanistan, was a self-styled Jihadist.

He said he wanted to kill Jewish children in revenge for the lives of
Palestinian youngsters who had died at the hands of the Israeli army.

There are some 500,000 Jews in France, and security measures around them have
increased after Merah shot a rabbi and three children at a school in Toulouse
last Monday.

There are some six million Muslims living in France, making up the largest group
of its kind in western Europe, but Islamic leaders have rejected Merah as being
utterly unrepresentative of a largely peace-loving and law-abiding community.

Mohammed Merah was gunned down by special forces outside his council flat in
Toulouse last Thursday following a fierce firefight.

Abelkader had been arrested the day before along with his 30-year-old wife - who
has not been named - and the brothers' divorced mother, Zoulika Aziri, 54.

At one point, police brought his mother to the scene, but she refused to urge
her son to surrender, officials said.

Both women have now been released, and have expressed shock at the decision to
charge Adbelkader, who denies having anything to do with his brother's crimes.

Evidence has also emerged that Merah was in touch with British Jihadists
preparing terrorist atrocities across the world.

During a visit to Afghanistan just over a year ago, Merah was using the codename
'Youssef Toulouse', which was passed to the UK authorities.

Paris security sources believe that both Merah brothers were involved in two
local Islamist organisations, Forsane Alizza (The Knights of Pride) and a more
militant jihadist network known as the Toulouse group, or Jund al-Khalifah.

Jund al-Khalifah, an Al-Qaeda splinter group, has already admitted to working
with a 'Youssef the Frenchman' - who is believed to be Merah.

'Not only were members of these groups in touch with British Jidhadists while in
Europe, but they would have met them in Afghanistan,' said one security source
in the French capital.

'There is a window as later as 2010 when Merah would have been in touch with
Jihadists from all over the world.'

The source said that Merah was known to have entered Kabul, the Capital of
Afghanistan on November 13th 2010, after a journey across Turkey and Iraq.

He was picked up by American security agents in the Afghan city of Kandahar on
November 30th , and returned to France on December 5th 2010.

The Toulouse group, which brought together young fundamentalists of North
African descent, was formed in around 2006, with the stated aim of targeting
western interests in Europe, and sending recruits to fight in Iraq and
Afghanistan.

The French authorities are facing growing criticism that Merah, a known
fundamentalist who was on the U.S. no-fly list and had attended an al-Qaeda
training camp, was left alone to carry out his crimes.

See the video here: [YOUTUBE null /]

LOAD-DATE: April 16, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDM


                   Copyright 2012 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              193 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                   MailOnline

                       March 25, 2012 Sunday 2:53 PM GMT

French Al Qaeda fanatic's brother is charged over terror attack which left seven
dead

BYLINE: PETER ALLEN

LENGTH: 934 words



     ·    Video shows spread of bullet holes across wall of flat where Merah
          lived
     ·    'Very proud' brother of Merah charged after explosives found in his
          car
     ·    Mereh's mother refused to ask killer to surrender
     ·    Murderer killed seven victims with close-range bullet shots to the
          head


The brother of Toulouse gunman Mohammed Merah appeared before an anti-terrorist
judge today and was formally charged with 'complicity in murder'.

Abdelkader Merah, a 29-year-old Islamic radical, was said to have been close to
a Jewish school last Monday when his 23-year-old sibling gunned down a Rabbi,
his two children, and a teenage pupil.

He is also believed to have assisted his brother in an attack on French
paratroopers, which saw three shot dead.

Under conditions of utmost security in central Paris this morning, Abdelkader
Merah was driven to the Palais de Justice in an armoured convoy.

There a criminal investigation was opened which could see the self-confessed
Islamic extremist jailed for life.

In a statement read out soon afterwards, the Paris Prosecutor's Office said:
'The investigations being handled by the police have established the existence
of serious evidence against Abdelkader Merah corroborating, or making plausible,
his participation as an accomplice in the commission of crimes in connection
with a terrorist enterprise.'

Abdelkader was remanded in custody, and taken to a high-security prison in
Paris, where he is likely to remain until his trial.

Adbelkader has already told police interrogators that he was 'very proud' of
what Merah did, and admitted to dinning with him just before the attack on the
Ozar Hatorah school in Toulouse.

'Signals from Abdelkader's mobile phone were emitted close to the school at the
time of the murders,' said an investigating source.

The revelations follow the release of video footage showing the inside of the
Toulouse apartment where Mohamed Merah had his last stand.

The chaotic flat is cluttered with furniture strewn across each room blocking
the way, and one wall is peppered in what looks like bullet holes.

Among numerous questions Abedelkader is facing is how Merah got hold of an
arsenal of weapons, including an Uzi sub-machine gun, and even the kind of Sten
gun used by British soldiers during the Second World War.

It is also believed that Abdekkader also helped his brother buy the Yamaha T-Max
motorbike used in all the attacks, and to respray the vehicle and remove its
tracking device.

POSTHUMOUS WEDDING FOR TRAGIC VICTIM OF MERAH

The girlfriend of one of Merah's victims said she intended to marry her partner
in a posthumous ceremony.

Caroline Monet, 21, has been given presidential permission to wed 25-year-old
Corporal Abel Chennouf, who was shot dead at a cash machine in the town of
Montauban, near Toulouse, this month.

Her lawyer, Gilbert Collard, said Ms Monet had received approval from President
Nicolas Sarkozy for the ceremony to take place.

Posthumous marriages are unusual in France, but they can be sanctioned in 'grave
circumstances', said Mr Collard.

'I've already had it done twice, for policemen's girlfriends,' he said.

'It's a really moving ceremony with an empty chair representing the dead spouse.

'There won't be any problems with approval, and the marriage will allow the new
child to have a father.'

Mohammed Merah was gunned down by special forces outside his council flat in
Toulouse last Thursday following a fierce firefight.

Abelkader had been arrested the day before along with his 30-year-old wife - who
has not been named - and the brothers' divorced mother, Zoulika Aziri, 54.

At one point, police brought his mother to the scene, but she refused to urge
her son to surrender, officials said.

Both women have now been released, and have expressed shock at the decision to
charge Adbelkader, who denies having anything to do with his brother's crimes.

Evidence has also emerged that Merah was in touch with British Jihadists
preparing terrorist atrocities across the world.

During a visit to Afghanistan just over a year ago, Merah was using the codename
'Youssef Toulouse', which was passed to the UK authorities.

Paris security sources believe that both Merah brothers were involved in two
local Islamist organisations, Forsane Alizza (The Knights of Pride) and a more
militant jihadist network known as the Toulouse group, or Jund al-Khalifah.

Jund al-Khalifah, an Al-Qaeda splinter group, has already admitted to working
with a 'Youssef the Frenchman' - who is believed to be Merah.

'Not only were members of these groups in touch with British Jidhadists while in
Europe, but they would have met them in Afghanistan,' said one security source
in the French capital.

'There is a window as later as 2010 when Merah would have been in touch with
Jihadists from all over the world.'

The source said that Merah was known to have entered Kabul, the Capital of
Afghanistan on November 13th 2010, after a journey across Turkey and Iraq.

He was picked up by American security agents in the Afghan city of Kandahar on
November 30th , and returned to France on December 5th 2010.

The Toulouse group, which brought together young fundamentalists of North
African descent, was formed in around 2006, with the stated aim of targeting
western interests in Europe, and sending recruits to fight in Iraq and
Afghanistan.

The French authorities are facing growing criticism that Merah, a known
fundamentalist who was on the U.S. no-fly list and had attended an al-Qaeda
training camp, was left alone to carry out his crimes.

See the video here: [YOUTUBE null /]

LOAD-DATE: April 16, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDM


                   Copyright 2012 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              194 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                       BBC Monitoring Europe - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                             March 26, 2012 Monday

German tabloid says security forces warn of terrorist attacks

LENGTH: 374 words


Text of report by popular German tabloid newspaper Bild on 24 March

[Unattributed report: "Danger also in Germany; Authorities "Expect" Terrorism
Comparable to the Toulouse Attack"]

After the Toulouse killing spree, German security authorities sound the alarm:
"Comparable terrorist attacks" are "to be expected" also in Germany, an internal
analysis says.

So far, such papers always used the words "cannot be ruled out" to describe the
threat situation.

Although the authorities do not have any concrete indications of planned attacks
from the Islamist scene, the framework conditions may be comparable and attacks
similar to the Toulouse murders are thinkable.

"Lone Wolf" Phenomenon

The security authorities warn of lone offenders like Toulouse serial killer
Mohamed Merah (23, dead). They plan their attacks in secret and suddenly strike
without any warning.

Unlike members of terror cells, these "lone wolves" do not communicate with
anyone, and hence, are very difficult to detect and to monitor. Because they do
not tell anyone about their plans, no one can report them to the police. Mostly,
these are young men who radicalize themselves on the Internet, who watch, for
example, videos of Islamist hate preachers or attacks on US soldiers in Iraq and
Afghanistan.

Example 1 -- the Cologne suitcase bombers. Without any order or support by
terrorist organizations, the Lebanese students Youssef Mohamad E. H. and Jihad
H. at Cologne's central station planted homemade bombs on two trains to Hamm and
Koblenz. That they did not go off was only due to the fact that the attackers
had built defective bombs. Their motive: revenge for the publication of the
Muhammad caricatures.

Example 2 -- Kosovar Arid U. Stirred up by Islamist propaganda on the Internet,
in March 2011 the then 21-year-old man killed two US soldiers at Frankfurt
Airport. He was sentenced to life imprisonment. At that time, only the jamming
of his gun had stopped him from killing even more people.

Europol [European Police Office] Director Rob Wainwright on Friday [ 23 March]
said that more sophisticated methods, for example, of surveillance of the
Internet, and closer international cooperation were needed to fight against lone
wolves.

Source: Bild, Hamburg, in German 24 Mar 12

LOAD-DATE: March 26, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2012 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              195 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                       March 26, 2012 Monday 7:45 AM GMT

London 2012 Olympics: terrorists 'plotting cyanide poison hand cream attack';
Terrorists linked with al-Qaeda are plotting a cyanide poison attack on London
Olympics by mixing chemicals with hand cream, it has been reported.

LENGTH: 324 words


Extremists have posted "detailed instructions" on a website with links to the
terror group on how launch an attack this summer's games in the capital.

One member, called Abu Hija Ansari claimed the cyanide should be mixed with an
unidentified hand cream so it could be absorbed through human skin, according to
The Sun.

Writing in Arabic, he said anyone planning such an attack should wear "medical
gloves" as they produce their lethal mixture.

"Through skin: 1 - cyanide, 2 - skin cream," he reportedly said.

"Mix the ingredients. The skin cream will open the pores in the skin and speed
up the absorption and effectiveness of the poison."

The newspaper said they were able to access the website, which has 17,000
members worldwide and known links to six al-Qaeda terrorists, using a false
identity.

A second extremist, who has not been identified, also wrote on the website: "It
is a good idea and you need to plan well."

Writing under a logo of the 2012 Games, she said: "It's time to prepare for the
event, as once again they are interfering with innocent Muslims."

Britain's security services are on high alert for any form of attack on the
Olympics, which start on July 27 in the main stadium in Stratford, east London.

Last week Jonathan Evans, the MI5 director-general, briefed the Cabinet on the
terrorist threats facing the UK in the run-up to the London Olympics.

Also last week it emerged that two convicted terrorists, including one involved
in the "liquids" plot to blow up trans-Atlantic passenger jets, were back on the
streets after being released from prison.

Bernard Jenkin, the Conservative MP for Essex North and chairman of the
all-party homeland security group, told the newspaper: "I hope the individuals
are identified so action can be taken.

"Those who believe there is no terrorist threat are living in cloud cuckoo
land."

Neither the government, Scotland Yard nor the Security Services have commented
on the reports.

LOAD-DATE: March 28, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTNS


                  Copyright 2012 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              196 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                            Manchester Evening News

                             March 27, 2012 Tuesday

Noonan jailed as driver is attacked in hijack terror

BYLINE: WFnode

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 446 words


A MEMBER of the notorious Noonan family is back behind bars.

Desmond Noonan, 26, was jailed for hijacking a car and assaulting its driver in
a bid to buy drugs.

The victim, Neil Pinkney, was beaten up after he agreed to give Noonan and two
others a lift.

He was then forced to flee his own vehicle which was then damaged in a police
pursuit.

Dad-of-two Noonan has now been jailed for 18-months after admitting false
imprisonment and aggravated vehicle-taking at Minshull Street Crown

Court. His accomplice James Delaney 28, of Carmel Close, Salford, was also
jailed for 16 months after admitting the same offences.

The court heard how the victim was driving home from work on November 5 last
year, when three men appeared in the road on Manchester Road East, Little
Hulton. Mr Pinkney initially spoke to the group but then left his vehicle and
asked staff at a petrol station to phone police.

However, he returned to the car and reluctantly agreed to give the men a lift.

Andrew Smith, prosecuting, said the driver had told the men he couldn't fit them
into his vehicle because it had child seats fitted. But Noonan, of Gloucester
Street, Salford, told him to put them in the boot.

As they headed towards the East Lancashire Road, Noonan became agitated and
began punching Mr Pinkney on the back of his head.

When they reached the junction with Worsley Road, he ordered: Get out, get out'.

The victim was hit again, before fleeing the vehicle.

He called police and his car was spotted by a patrol.

Police then pursued the vehicle into Trafford Road, where it crashed into the
central reservation. Drunken Noonan then resisted arrest and made threats to
police officers. The driver fled before police arrived and has not been
identified.

The court was told that the false imprisonment of Mr Pinkney amounted to five or
six minutes of madness'.

Richard Littler, defending Noonan, said it was accepted that violence was used,
but no weapon had been involved, and no serious injury caused.

He said: It cannot be said that this was planned in any way.

It was a stupid decision made on the spur of the moment. The original plan had
been to source drugs. Michael Lavery, defending Delaney, said his client had
drunk far too much', and his role had been that of a passenger in the car. He
had not been involved in any violence.

But sentencing the men, Judge Adrian Smith said: Cases of false imprisonment
vary enormously, but every single case is very serious, because it involves
deprivation of a person's liberty for however short a period.

Two years ago, Noonan was jailed for 20 months at Minshull Street Crown Court
after admitting being involved in two violent assaults with his twin brother
Damien.

LOAD-DATE: March 27, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: jailed Desmond Noonan, left, and James Delaney both admitted false
imprisonment and aggravated vehicle-taking

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2012 Manchester Evening News
                              All Rights Reserved

                              197 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                   MailOnline

                      March 28, 2012 Wednesday 1:33 PM GMT

Jewish schoolboy, 12, beaten up in latest anti-Semitic attack to hit France...
as school where Islamic terrorist Merah killed four receives hate mail

BYLINE: PETER ALLEN

LENGTH: 529 words


A Jewish schoolboy was punched in the back of the head and beaten up in the
latest anti-Semitic attack to hit France.

The 12-year-old was walking near his Jewish school in southeastern Paris
yesterday when a gang set up on him, calling him a 'dirty little Jew'.

It came as it emerged the Jewish school where Islamic terrorist Mohammed Merah,
23, gunned down four people has received hate messages warning: 'This is only
the beginning'.

Armed guards are currently on guard outside the Ozar Hatorah School in Toulouse,
south west France, where Merah gunned down a Rabbi, his two children and the
headteacher's daughter.

But this has not prevented emails being sent by one or more tormentors who
describe themselves as 'The Avenger of France and the French People'.

Jean-Paul Amoyelle, head of the Ozar Hatorah network of Jewish schools in
France, said he feared further attacks after the Paris incident.

He said: 'There was a feeling of solidarity for our schools after this drama [in
Toulouse].

'Now I fear that this has provoked a hostile reaction, shown by the attitude of
these boys who called him dirty Jew and beat him up. We have to be vigilant,
because this could lead to more aggression.'

After chasing youngsters into the school, Merah grabbed one young girl by the
hair before shooting at point blank range into her head. Other victims died in
the same way.

Merah himself was killed by armed special forces police last Thursday, but since
then there has been a disturbing amount of support shown for him in France.

Small demonstrations honouring 'Merah the Martyr' have been held on housing
estates, including the Toulouse one where he grew up.

Jewish graves have also been vandalised across the country.

Prosecutors have already opened an inquiry into the hate mail, which has been
sent to a number of key staff at the school.

'It is grossly offensive, and highlights the anti-Semitic nature of the crimes
committed by the gunman,' said a judicial source.

'Everything is being done to try and trace the person or persons who sent this
hate mail at a time of rising tensions.'

Merah is said to have targeted Jewish children 'in revenge' for Palestinian
youngsters whom he alleged were 'murdered' by the Israeli Army.

He is also believed to have gunned down three soldiers.

Merah filmed his crimes as he carried them out, and a copy of a montage of the
horror images have already been sent by an unknown person to the Al Jazeera TV
channel.

On Sunday Merah's brother, 29-year-old Abdelkader Merah, was charged with
assisting in terrorist acts and is currently in custody awaiting trial.

Paris security sources believe that both Merah brothers were involved in two
local Islamist organisations.

The first is Forsane Alizza (The Knights of Pride), while the second is a more
militant jihadist network known as the Toulouse group, or Jund al-Khalifah.

Jund al-Khalifah, an Al-Qaeda splinter group, has already admitted to working
with a 'Youssef the Frenchman' - who is believed to be Merah.

The French authorities are facing growing criticism that Merah, a known
fundamentalist who was on the U.S. no-fly list and had attended an al-Qaeda
training camp, was left alone to carry out his crimes.

LOAD-DATE: April 16, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDM


                   Copyright 2012 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              198 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                               The Sun (England)

                            March 28, 2012 Wednesday
                                   Edition 1;
                                    Scotland

Brave OAP thug terror at church;
ATTACKED BY BAG THIEF

BYLINE: IRINA NELSON

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 25

LENGTH: 180 words


A TERRIFIED pensioner was attacked by a thug she caught rifling through her
handbag in CHURCH.

The brute grabbed the 75-yearold victim by the throat and pinned her to a wall
before fleeing with £50 after she tried in vain to block his escape.

The shocking attack came at St Margaret's RC Church in Johnstone, Renfrewshire,
where the woman attended morning Mass with friends.

She was assaulted after investigating a noise as she cleared a tea room after
the service.

Last night Father Joseph Burke praised the bravery of the victim who did not
wish to be named. He said: "She disturbed this man rifling through a bag. She
blocked his exit and he obviously panicked. This was a horrific thing to have
happened.

"She got a massive shock but is a very feisty lady. She was back at church the
next day."

As cops hunted the thief after Saturday's incident, a spokesman for charity Age
Scotland added: "This was a disgraceful attack."

Strathclyde Police Inspector Willie Paterson said: "This individual preyed on an
elderly and vulnerable lady in a place of worship."

irinanelson@the-sun.co.uk

Panic

LOAD-DATE: March 28, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Outrage ... St Margaret's church

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: SUNscot


                    Copyright 2012 NEWS GROUP NEWSPAPERS LTD
                              All Rights Reserved

                              199 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                               Independent.co.uk

                      March 29, 2012 Thursday 12:12 AM GMT

Steve Richards: The liberal dilemma - how to rule and stick to your principles;

Facing possible terror attacks is more frightening as a PM than from the luxury
of Opposition

BYLINE: Steve Richards

SECTION: OPINION

LENGTH: 1028 words


A minor confession. I am one of the few journalists who have attended every
annual conference of the Liberal Democrats since the party's formation, a claim
that not even some of its former leaders can make. In each of them I have
observed intense, open debates.

The party is famously democratic, almost to the point where it is impossible to
lead. And yet I cannot recall debates that explored and challenged deeply-held
assumptions on big, broad themes such as their robust support for civil
liberties or their attachment to vaguely defined localism. Instead, the
conference hall gets admirably heated over specific policy stances. This is a
party that tends to have around 10,000 policy stances at any given time, so the
debates move on speedily.

Of course there were also the famous, or reasonably famous, internal discussions
between "Orange Book" Liberals and social democrats, an important divide that
has assumed greater significance lately. But all were united over the party's
most distinctive stands, ones that had been untested, until the last general
election, by the demands of national power.

Others have been more introspective. The former Labour Home Secretary Charles
Clarke once wrote a thoughtful article about the dilemmas of being a liberal in
government when faced with the threat of terrorism. Clarke regarded himself as a
liberal Home Secretary and yet supported most of the highly contentious
anti-terrorist measures instigated by Tony Blair, which so alarmed and alienated
many liberals. His article was stimulating because, although Clarke was too
loyally supportive in relation to some measures, he is indeed a liberal by
instinct and sought to question policymaking more deeply than some of his more
supine Cabinet colleagues.

Now it is the turn of the Liberal Democrats to reflect on what it means to be a
liberal in power. Governing brings awkward dilemmas. This week the Government
published a report from David Anderson QC, the independent reviewer of anti-
terrorist measures. The report focused on control orders, which were introduced
after the London bombings in 2005. After a lot of pressure from senior Liberal
Democrats, the Coalition replaced the orders with so- called TPIMs (terrorism
prevention and investigation measures) soon after the last election. Good
riddance they thought, and I thought too.

This week's review received little coverage compared with the huge furore when
the control orders were first proposed. Yet the sequence, from their
introduction to abolition and on to the conclusions of the review, highlight the
complexities of this most sensitive, highly charged and yet nuanced policy area.

Tony Blair and then Gordon Brown used the threat of terrorism partly for crude
political purposes, knowing that a "tough" stance would be popular with voters
and some newspapers, especially those owned by Rupert Murdoch. Blair's support
for extending the period in which suspects could be held without charge to 90
days was both an act of opportunism and part of a stubborn reluctance to
question demands from senior intelligence officers and the police. Famously
Blair was defeated in the Commons over the issue, but Brown thought he would
have another go on a reduced limit of 45 days.

Once more, the opportunistic move was doomed, thanks to the strong opposition of
the Conservatives and the Liberal Democrats, both taking principled stands and
in the case of the Tory leadership, a risky one. Blair also lapsed into
breathtaking populism when just before he left for his summer holidays in 2005
he announced a "10-point plan" to address the terrorist threat.

Charles Clarke, who was Home Secretary at the time, was on holiday in the US
when the sudden plan was unveiled. Most of the points were never implemented.
Again the opposition of the Conservatives and Liberal Democrats made a mark.

Populist politics led to some misjudged authoritarianism. But facing the
possibility of terrorist attacks is more frightening as a Prime Minister and a
Home Secretary than it is from the relative luxury of opposition.

In the case of control orders, this week's review concludes that they "fulfilled
their primary foundation of disrupting terrorist activity", that they were
"enforceable" and that there was no evidence they were counter-productive. The
measures were tough, including a curfew of up to 16 hours a day, confinement
within a geographical boundary, tagging and restrictions on communication.
Nonetheless, the review concludes that the orders were applied with a
"substantial degree of fairness".

It reaches a different judgement on the seemingly more humane replacement.
"These changes were motivated by civil liberties concerns. They are unlikely to
further the requirements of national security - rather the reverse," it
concludes. To counter the increased risk, higher spending is required now on
additional "covert investigative techniques".

When the Coalition announced it was scrapping control orders, I phoned Clarke,
and asked whether he still supported their retention. Out of power and without
too much of an axe to grind, he insisted that he did. Partial vindication comes
in the form of the independent review.

At some point the Liberal Democrats are bound to renew more openly a theological
debate between their left and right. It will go around in familiar circles. But
there is also scope for a more nuanced discussion about the balance between
civil liberties and security in the light of experience in government. Internal
questions need also to be posed about the limits of "localism", which led some
senior Liberal Democrats to back the original NHS Bill.

This is not to argue that the Liberal Democrats should ditch two of their more
attractive and distinctive stands, support for civil liberties and an attachment
to localism. It is in these policy areas where they make a unique impact. But as
we saw in France last week, a government must answer many questions about how an
Islamist had the space to strike. Charles Clarke is not alone in wondering what
it means to be a liberal when terrorists can take away the freedom to live.

s.richards@independent.co.uk

LOAD-DATE: March 29, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBI


                  Copyright 2012 Independent News & Media plc
                              All Rights Reserved

                              200 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                                Romford Recorder

                             March 30, 2012 Friday

999 drill as school listed as a terrorist attack rescue centre

SECTION: ROP

LENGTH: 298 words


'In the event of severe flooding or a terrorist attack on London - a Shenfield
school would offer a haven for evacuees.

Shenfield High School has been designated for the task as it offers train links
to Liverpool Street.



The school has been named as a category one emergency rest centre - meaning it
would come into use if other parts of Brentwood had to be evacuated.

A two-hour trial run of what would happen if catastrophe struck was held at the
school last Friday. The site can hold up to 1,000 people.

Sixty-three students took on the roles of evacuated residents - queuing up to be
registered and checked in, given a numbered wristband and led to a safe area.

Greg Campbell, Brentwood Council's business improvement manager, said: "We are
practising so that we are ready and prepared in case an emergency arises.

"All our volunteers are council staff and it's important we are organised."

Audit committee chairman Cllr Chris Hossack added: "I would say we are prepared
if something happened and today shows that we are determined to be prepared. But
hopefully we won't need it."

Student Manvir Uppal, 17, said: "We had to fill out a form saying our name and
address and if we had any medical problems or needed medication and we were
given a wristband with a number on."

But some pupils felt the process could be a little quicker and more informative.


Tejas Patel, 19, said: "It was quite organised but they could have two desks to
register people."

Lois Jacques, 17, added: "The process was slow. But, overall, I would say they
are quite prepared."

They were later "deregistered" and sent off to "safety". They handed back their
wristbands and their names taken off the list.

The school is one of a few would-be-rest centres operated by Brentwood Council.
Others include Stondon Massey Village Hall.

LOAD-DATE: March 30, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: RRC


                    Copyright 2012 Archant Regional Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              201 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring South Asia - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                            March 31, 2012 Saturday

Minister says terrorists held for planning to attack Pakistan Parliament House

LENGTH: 227 words


Text of report by official news agency Associated Press of Pakistan (APP)

Islamabad, 31 March: Interior Minister Rehman Malik Saturday [31 March] said
some terrorists have been arrested, who wanted to attack the Parliament House
during Presidential address to the joint sitting.

He was talking to media-persons after chairing a high-level meeting here, which
reviewed overall security situation in the country.

The Interior Minister said the arrested terrorists belonged to Miranshah, North
Waziristan Agency. An employee of the Foreign Ministry had also been arrested
for extending assistance to the terrorists.

Appreciating the performance of Federal Capital police, Rehman Malik said more
incentives and plots would be given to the police martyrs. The government was
paying special focus on the welfare of police.

Replying to a question, he said that foreign hand was involved in creating law
and order situation in the commercial hub of Karachi with an aim to destabilise
the country.

He said it was the responsibility of all political parties to work jointly for
maintaining peace in Karachi. The suggestions given by the Muttahida Qaumi
Movement (MQM) and the Awami National Party (ANP) for improving security
situation in the city, will be taken into consideration, he added.

Source: Associated Press of Pakistan news agency, Islamabad, in English 1124gmt
31 Mar 12

LOAD-DATE: March 31, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2012 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              202 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring Middle East - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                              April 1, 2012 Sunday

Thirteen Yemeni soldiers said killed in "terrorist" attack in Lahjj

LENGTH: 106 words


Text of report in English by state-run Yemeni news agency Saba website

["13 Soldiers Killed in Terrorist Attack at Lahjj" - SABA Headline]

Sana'a: An informed source at Interior Ministry has said thirteen soldiers have
been killed at Lahjj governorate due to an attack carried out by terrorist
elements of Al-Qa'idah.

The perpetrators have assaulted a military site killing thirteen as a response
for attacks of military personnel, which lasted with the air strike which took
place at Shabwa governorate and resulted in the death of three of Al-Qa'idah
elements. FJ

Source: Yemen News Agency Saba website, Sanaa, in English 2210 gmt 31 Mar 12

LOAD-DATE: April 1, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2012 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              203 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                   MailOnline

                        April 1, 2012 Sunday 7:55 PM GMT

Double tragedy for family as boy, 2, dies when dresser falls on him after father
killed last year in terror attack at German airport

BYLINE: BETH STEBNER

LENGTH: 304 words



     ·    William Alden, 2, died when dresser fell on him
     ·    His father, Airman Nick Alden, died in a terror attack at Frankfurt
          Airport in 2011
     ·    Family was planning to go on first vacation since Mr Alden's death


Tragedy struck twice for one family when the two-year-old son of an airman
killed in an attack at a German airport died in an accident.

Two-year-old William Alden was trying to reach something at the top of a dresser
in the family's Anderson, South Carolina home when it fell on him.

The boy's father was Senior Airman Nick Alden of Williamston, who was killed in
March 2011 outside an airport in Frankfurt, Germany, by a man authorities said
was a Muslim extremist.

The family was preparing to leave for vacation when the boy died - the first
time they would have gone on vacation since Nick Alden was killed.

Don McCown, the deputy coroner for Anderson County, says William was trying to
reach something on top of the dresser when it fell on him Saturday.

He told the Associated Press that the boy lived at the home with his mother,
Patricia Brooks Alden, and his five-year-old sister.

William died of asphyxiation, Mr MrCown said.

Sgt David Creamer told the  Anderson Independent Mail: 'This poor lady has
suffered so much, it's unbearable. I do hate it for her.'

He said authorities had ruled the boy's death an accident after performing a
recreation, and no one will be charged.

'My heart goes out to the family,' he said. 'It is so sad, there's not much else
to say.'

Arid Uka, an Islamic extremist born in Kosovo, was convicted of murdering both
Alden, who was 25, and 21-year-old Airman Zachary Cuddeback at Frankfurt Airport
last March.

Uka confessed he was targeting the U.S. military when he opened fire on a U.S.
military bus at the airport.

Eyewitnesses to the attack said he yelled out Islamist slogans before firing the
weapon.

LOAD-DATE: April 16, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDM


                   Copyright 2012 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              204 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                              The Herald (Glasgow)

                              April 2, 2012 Monday
                                   1 Edition

Mock subway terrorist attack

BYLINE: RACHEL LOXTON

SECTION: HS - NEWS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 204 words


A CHEMICAL attack apparently caused chaos on Glasgow s Subway last night   but
it was all part of a training exercise.

More than 200 workers from the emergency services gathered at Shields Road
station as part of a simulated terrorist attack .

Firefighters, ambulance crews and police worked together for Exercise Subway
Culture, which lasted for more than five hours.

Police said the exercise was being held in anticipation of major sporting
events, including this year s Olympics and the 2014 Glasgow Commonwealth Games.

A total of 30 medical students volunteered to take on the role of fumes victims.

They could be seen limping out of the underground station clutching each other
for support and screaming.

The students were helped by medics before officers in chemical, biological,
radioactive and nuclear suits and respirators came to their aid.

Stephen House, chief constable of Strathclyde Police and chairman of Strathclyde
Emergencies Coordination Group, said there was  no specific threat to the
Glasgow Subway or elsewhere for that matter .

He added:  With the Olympics, Parlaympics and the Commonwealth Games firmly on
our horizon this is the ideal opportunity to demonstrate our readiness to deal
with such an eventuality.

LOAD-DATE: April 2, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: SIMULATION: Emergency staff help the  victim  of a chemical attack,
played by a student. Picture: Nick Ponty RESPONSE: Emergency teams outside
Shields Road Subway station in Glasgow.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: GH


                      Copyright 2012 Newsquest Media Group
                              All Rights Reserved

                              205 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring Middle East - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                             April 3, 2012 Tuesday

Saudi court hears terror suspect accused of plotting attacks on US forces

LENGTH: 400 words


Text of report in English by Saudi newspaper Arab News website on 3 April

[Report by MD Al-Sulami: "Court in Riyadh hears Al-Khafji terror suspect"]

A suspected member of the Al-Khafji cell accused of plotting to attack US forces
in Kuwait said the allegation against him was not true.

"The text of my confession of plotting to attack US forces arrived to me in a
fax message and I was ordered to write it in the confession statement with my
signature," the defendant said.

When asked by the judge why did he sign a fabricated confession statement before
a judge, the defendant said he was scared of undergoing a second interrogation.

However, he said the other item in his confession statement that he travelled to
Iran to participate in Afghan war was true.

The defendant made the statement during the trial hearing of the suspects in the
Al-Khafji terror cell at a special court in Riyadh yesterday.

The judge handed the 10 suspects who were present at the hearing the files
containing their original statements. Defendant No 4 was absent.

While some of the defendants denied their confession statements about their
involvement in terror activities, others affirmed their statements.

A defendant said some of his confession statement was misinterpreted to prove
his complicity in the crimes.

Reacting to the judge's query on many defendants' denial of the charges against
them, the public prosecutor told the court that the original confessions should
be considered valid and the defendants who change their original statements
should be confronted with evidences.

The defendant No 8 requested the judge to change his lawyer for lack of
promptness in attending the court hearing. He also denied his earlier
confessions.

While the defendant No 10 said his confessions are true and he signed the
statement voluntarily, the 11th defendant said all charges against him were
fabricated.

Three judges attended the hearing. Media persons, a representative of the Saudi
Human Rights Commission and a relative of a suspect were also present in the
courtroom.

All the 11 defendants are charged with planning to attack vital installations of
Saudi Aramco, recruitment for terror activities, terror funding, going to
violence-hit regions and issuing religious edicts against Saudi rulers.

The 11 are also accused of possessing weapons and going abroad to get military
training

Source: Arab News website, Jedda, in English 3 Apr 12

LOAD-DATE: April 3, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2012 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              206 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                            Evening Times (Glasgow)

                             April 3, 2012 Tuesday
                                   2 Edition

Fresh plea in OAP terror attack probe

BYLINE: NO BYLINE

SECTION: HS - NEWS; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 274 words


DETECTIVES hunting for four men who attacked a pensioner in her home say they
have been  disappointed  by the public s response to their appeals for
information.

Mary Coulter, 76, suffered severe cuts to her face and two broken arms when the
gang forced their way in.

Police believe the widow was wrongly targeted in the attack in Overdale Place,
Overtown, near Wishaw, North Lanarkshire, on March 22.

A £5000 reward has been offered from Crimestoppers to anyone who can give
information leading to an arrest and a conviction, but so far no one has come
forward.

Her daughter, Helen Coulter, 38, of Wishaw, also appealed for help in the probe,
describing her mother as a  defenceless, elderly woman who has never hurt anyone
.

Police have carried out door-to-door inquires and quizzed motorists who may have
been in the area at the time of the attack but there has been little response.

Mrs Coulter s son and grandson had been among three men cleared of killing Asian
waiter Surjit Singh Chhokar in 1998.

Mr Chhokar s 1998 murder sparked controversy after the failure of authorities to
secure a conviction.

Three men, including Ronnie Coulter and his nephew Andrew Coulter, were cleared
of the killing following separate trials.

Detective Inspector John Lamb, of Wishaw CID, said that he had hoped more people
would have come forward with information on the  horrific  attack on the OAP,
adding:  The response from the public has been disappointing.

I would like to again appeal to anyone who may have information that may assist
us.

I am particularly keen to trace the driver of a white van seen parked in Gourlay
Drive around the time of the incident.

LOAD-DATE: April 3, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: * Victim Mary Coulter suffered horror injuries

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: ET


                      Copyright 2012 Newsquest Media Group
                              All Rights Reserved

                              207 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                   MailOnline

                       April 3, 2012 Tuesday 10:12 AM GMT

US offers $10m bounty for leader of terror group behind Mumbai gun attack

BYLINE: DAILY MAIL REPORTER

LENGTH: 322 words


The U.S. has offered a $10million bounty for the founder of the Pakistani
militant group blamed for the 2008 attacks in the Indian city of Mumbai that
killed 166 people.

Hafiz Saeed founded Lashkar-e-Taiba in the 1980s, allegedly with Pakistani
support to pressure archenemy India over the disputed territory of Kashmir.

Pakistan banned the group in 2002 under pressure from the U.S. but has done
little to crack down on its activities.

Saeed operates openly in the country, giving public speeches and appearing on TV
talk shows. The U.S. also offered up to $2million for Lashkar-e-Taiba's deputy
leader, Hafiz Abdul Rahman Makki.

The bounties were posted on the U.S. State Department Rewards for Justice
website.

The reward for Saeed is one of the highest offered by the program and is equal
to the amount for Taliban chief Mullah Omar. Only Ayman al-Zawahri, who
succeeded Osama bin Laden as al-Qaida chief, fetches a higher, $25million
bounty.

U.S. Undersecretary of State Wendy Sherman announced the bounty for
Lashkar-e-Taiba's leader and deputy on Monday during a visit to India.

The move comes at a particularly tense time in the troubled relationship with
the U.S. and Pakistan.

Pakistan's parliament is currently debating a revised framework for relations
with the U.S. in the wake of American airstrikes that killed 24 Pakistani
soldiers in November at two posts along the Afghan border.

Pakistan retaliated by kicking the U.S. out of a base used by American drones
and closing its border crossings to supplies meant for NATO troops in
Afghanistan.

The U.S. hopes the parliamentary debate will result in Pakistan reopening the
supply lines. The closure has been a headache for the U.S. because it has had to
spend more money sending supplies through an alternate route that runs through
Central Asia.

It also needs the route to withdraw equipment as it seeks to pull most of its
combat forces out of Afghanistan by the end of 2014.

LOAD-DATE: April 16, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDM


                   Copyright 2012 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              208 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                             Paisley Daily Express

                             April 3, 2012 Tuesday
                                 First Edition

COPS PROBE SECOND PETROL BOMB ATTACK;
Family flee in terror

BYLINE: GAVIN McINALLY

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 520 words


A TERRIFIED family were forced to flee for their lives early yesterday morning
as a yob hurled a petrol bomb through their living room window.

Police are treating the shocking incident - the second petrol bomb attack to
take place in the Paisley area within the space of 48 hours - as attempted
murder.

Alan McWilliams, his partner Andrea and his three teenage Turn to Page Five

From Page One children were asleep in their home when they were targeted.

A petrol bomb smashed through their window shortly before 12.30am, sending
shards of glass flying through the air.

Moments after the missile landed on the floor, Alan and his family ran outside
to safety.

The alarm was then raised, with police and fire engines quickly on the scene.

Police have refused to comment on why the McWilliams family, who live in Hogg
Avenue, Johnstone, may have been targeted but an investigation is under way and
detectives have been carrying out door-to-door enquiries.

A neighbour, who did not want to be named, told the Paisley Daily Express: "I
heard a loud bang outside and, when I looked out of my window, I could see the
family standing in the street.

"They all looked okay but it must have been a shocking experience for them.

"I've no idea why they would be targeted. Police were taking statements from
neighbours right through the night. I didn't get to bed until about 4.30am."

At this stage, police are not linking the attack with a similar incident which
took place in Glen Street, Paisley, in the early hours of Saturday morning.

A spokeswoman said: "We can confirm that a lit object was thrown through the
window of a property in Hogg Avenue, Johnstone, at 12.25am on Monday.

"Although there were people in the house at the time, no-one was injured.

"Enquiries are ongoing and we are treating the incident as attempted murder."

Meanwhile, police are continuing to investigate the attack in Glen Street, in
which 74-year-old Eddie Ingleston was seriously injured.

He was rushed to Paisley's Royal Alexandra Hospital after a blaze ripped through
his ground-floor home at around 1.20am on Saturday.

The disabled OAP, who is virtually house-bound, suffered smoke inhalation in
what police believe was a "deliberate act" of fireraising.

Neighbours have told the Express they believe it was a case of mistaken
identity, with the arsonists having set out to target someone else living
nearby.

Yesterday, one elderly neighbour said: "I was woken by the police at around 2am
and told about the fire. The blue lights were flashing and there were
firefighters and police everywhere.

"I don't know Eddie well but he seems to be quite a quiet man and he stays in
his house a lot.

"Everyone around here is saying that whoever set his flat on fire must have been
after someone else."

Yesterday, Mr Ingleston was said to be in a stable condition in hospital.

Anyone who has information about the attack in Glen Street or yesterday's
incident in Hogg Avenue is asked to call Paisley CID on 0141 532 5900.
Alternatively, you can ring Crimestoppers on 0800 555 111, where callers can
remain anonymous.

Petrol bomb terror

LOAD-DATE: April 3, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:  TARGETED: A petrol bomb was sent crashing through the living room
window of this family home yesterday PROBE: Cops continue to investigate a
petrol bomb attack at this block of flats in Paisley

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: pe


                           Copyright 2012 MGN Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              209 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                       April 3, 2012 Tuesday 7:11 PM GMT

US offers $10 million bounty for Mumbai terror 'mastermind';
The United States has offered a $10 million bounty for the founder of the
Islamist militant group blamed for the 2008 Mumbai terror attacks despite fresh
attempts to reset troubled relations with Pakistan.

BYLINE: By Rob Crilly Islamabad

LENGTH: 387 words


Hafiz Mohammad Saeed, the founder of Lashkar-e-Taiba (LeT), who is based in
Pakistan, is suspected of masterminding the 2008 attacks in which 166 people
were killed.

The move will upset Islamabad, which fears a spate of terrorist reprisals if
they detain the wanted terrorist.

He was released from house arrest in 2009 and is free to travel the country. He
addressed a rally in Islamabad last week urging Pakistan not to reopen its
Afghan border to Nato supply convoys and makes frequent television appearances.

The border was closed last November after US aircraft mistakenly killed 24
Pakistani soldiers.

Saeed, whose bounty is the same sum offered by the US for the Afghan Taliban
supreme leader Mullah Omar on Tuesday denied he played any role in the attacks.

"We are not hiding in caves for bounties to be set on finding us. I think the US
is frustrated because we are taking out countrywide protests against the
resumption of Nato supplies and drone strikes," he told Al Jazeera.

The move, hailed by India's foreign ministry as "sending a strong signal to
LeT", is likely to put further strain on relations between the US and Pakistan,
who were forced into an awkward alliance in the aftermath of the September 11
terrorist attacks.

It comes despite new US attempts to reset its troubled alliance with Pakistan,
with lowered expectations and fewer feuds after a disastrous 2011 that brought
ties close to breaking point.

A senior State Department official is due to arrive in Islamabad today as
Pakistani politicians continue to consider whether to allow Nato supply convoys
to resume using the country's roads.

Recent weeks have brought a series of high-level meetings on the sidelines of
international summits, as officials quietly try to mend the damage while the
world focuses on Syria, Iran and the Greek economic crisis.

A US official told The Daily Telegraph that relations had started to enter a
calmer period.

"The new form of the relationship is not about asking for what we really want -
but what is possible," he said. "To stop coming with big requests, but working
together where it is politically appropriate for both sides."

The past year has been marked by a series of public rows and diplomatic
breakdowns. It hit a low point when US special forces launched a covert raid to
kill Osama bin Laden in May last year.

LOAD-DATE: April 4, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTNS


                  Copyright 2012 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              210 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                      April 4, 2012 Wednesday 8:13 PM GMT

September 11 mastermind Khalid Sheik Mohammed facing death penalty;
Khalid Sheikh Mohammed, the alleged mastermind of the September 11 terror
attacks, faces a potential death sentence after being formally charged with the
murder of thousands of Americans.

BYLINE: By Jon Swaine Raf Sanchez in Washington

LENGTH: 671 words


Khalid Sheikh Mohammed and four alleged co-conspirators were referred by
President Barack Obama's administration to a military tribunal at the Guantánamo
Bay naval base in Cuba.

In what has frequently been trailed as "the trial of the century", they will
soon stand accused of committing multiple counts of terrorism, hijacking and
murder in violation of the law of war by devising the era-defining attacks on
the American mainland.

"The charges allege that the five accused are responsible for the planning and
execution of the attacks of September 11, 2001, in New York and Washington DC,
and Shanksville, Pennsylvania, resulting in the killing of 2,976 people," the
Defence Department announced in a statement.

The full extent of their alleged crimes are detailed in an 88-page dossier
listing every victim of the attacks by name. The charges were referred to a
capital military commission, meaning that "if convicted, the five accused could
be sentenced to death," the department said.

Mohammed, a 46-year-old Kuwaiti long known by US officials as "KSM", has been
held at the base's Camp Delta prison for the past six years. He is alleged to
have confessed that he was he "was responsible for the 9/11 operation from A to
Z" after extensive interrogation.

He was tortured by "waterboarding" 183 times - more than any other Guantánamo
detainee. The controversial technique in which water is poured on a suspect's
face to simulate drowning, has since been banned by the Obama administration.

Mohammed will appear in court at the base for arraignment within 30 days,
alongside Saudi Arabians Walid bin Attash and Mustafa al-Hawsawi, Ramzi bin
al-Shibh of Yemen and Pakistani Ali Abd al-Aziz Ali. Their full trials are then
expected to commence within months.

The fate of the five men will ultimately be decided by a jury of 12 military
officers drawn from across America's armed forces. Under US military law, the
officers must vote unanimously for the death penalty to be imposed.

Mr Obama's aides will hope that the trial, which is set to commence amid his
likely election campaign against Mitt Romney, will boost his chances of being
returned to the White House by highlighting his crackdown on al-Qaeda and the
assassination of Osama bin Laden.

In an attempt to move away from the controversial military tribunals, which were
created by President George W. Bush after the September 11 attacks, Mr Obama
originally made a high-profile effort to hold the trials in New York's civilian
courts.

However, the notion that Mohammed should be brought within feet of the site
where his alleged attack killed thousands under the collapsed towers of the
World Trade Centre prompted outrage among Republicans, who blocked the plans in
Congress.

After his capture in Pakistan in 2003, Mohammed was transferred over the next
three years between a series of secret American bases around the world, as the
CIA interrogated him for information on al-Qaeda's international terror network.

Moved to Guantánamo Bay in 2006, he allegedly accepted full responsibility the
following year for September 11 and more than a dozen other plots, including
plans to assassinate Pope John Paul II and former US presidents Bill Clinton and
Jimmy Carter.

Mohammed is also alleged to have boasted that he personally beheaded Daniel
Pearl, a reporter for the Wall Street Journal who was kidnapped in Pakistan in
2002, with his "blessed right hand".

Prosecutors allege that for two years Mohammed was in frequent contact with
Mohammed Atta, the leader of the 19 September 11 hijackers. He is alleged to
have provided Atta and his team with money before giving the orders to go ahead
with the "Planes Operation".

After being pictured overweight, dishevelled and confused in a much-reproduced
photograph taken as he was captured, Mohammed has since appeared at hearings
looking thin and wearing a long beard. "I'm not making myself a hero, when I
said I was responsible for this or that," he told a June 2008 hearing. "I'm
looking to be a martyr for long time."

LOAD-DATE: April 4, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTNS


                  Copyright 2012 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              211 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                      April 4, 2012 Wednesday 7:32 PM GMT

September 11 mastermind Khalid Sheik Mohammed facing death penalty;
Khalid Sheikh Mohammed, the alleged mastermind of the September 11 terror
attacks, faces a potential death sentence after being formally charged with the
murder of thousands of Americans.

BYLINE: By Jon Swaine Raf Sanchez in Washington

LENGTH: 628 words


Khalid Sheikh Mohammed and four alleged co-conspirators were last night referred
by President Barack Obama's administration to a military tribunal at the
Guantánamo Bay naval base in Cuba.

In what has frequently been trailed as "the trial of the century", they will
soon stand accused of committing multiple counts of terrorism, hijacking and
murder in violation of the law of war by devising the era-defining attacks on
the American mainland.

"The charges allege that the five accused are responsible for the planning and
execution of the attacks of September 11, 2001, in New York and Washington DC,
and Shanksville, Pennsylvania, resulting in the killing of 2,976 people," the
Defence Department announced in a statement yesterday.

The full extent of their alleged crimes are detailed in an 88-page dossier
listing every victim of the attacks by name. The charges were referred to a
capital military commission, meaning that "if convicted, the five accused could
be sentenced to death," the department said.

Mohammed, a 46-year-old Kuwaiti long known by US officials as "KSM", has been
held at the base's Camp Delta prison for the past six years. He is alleged to
have confessed that he was he "was responsible for the 9/11 operation from A to
Z" after extensive interrogation.

He was tortured by "waterboarding" 183 times - more than any other Guantánamo
detainee. The controversial technique in which water is poured on a suspect's
face to simulate drowning, has since been banned by the Obama administration.

Mohammed will appear in court at the base for arraignment within 30 days,
alongside Saudi Arabians Walid bin Attash and Mustafa al-Hawsawi, Ramzi bin
al-Shibh of Yemen and Pakistani Ali Abd al-Aziz Ali. Their full trials are then
expected to commence within months.

The fate of the five men will ultimately be decided by a jury of 12 military
officers drawn from across America's armed forces. Under US military law, the
officers must vote unanimously for the death penalty to be imposed.

In an attempt to move away from the controversial military tribunals, which were
created by President George W. Bush after the September 11 attacks, Mr Obama
originally made a high-profile effort to hold the trials in New York's civilian
courts.

However, the notion that Mohammed should be brought within feet of the site
where his alleged attack killed thousands under the collapsed towers of the
World Trade Centre prompted outrage among Republicans, who blocked the plans in
Congress.

After his capture in Pakistan in 2003, Mohammed was transferred over the next
three years between a series of secret American bases around the world, as the
CIA interrogated him for information on al-Qaeda's international terror network.

Moved to Guantánamo Bay in 2006, he allegedly accepted full responsibility the
following year for September 11 and more than a dozen other plots, including
plans to assassinate Pope John Paul II and former US presidents Bill Clinton and
Jimmy Carter.

Mohammed is also alleged to have boasted that he personally beheaded Daniel
Pearl, a reporter for the Wall Street Journal who was kidnapped in Pakistan in
2002, with his "blessed right hand".

Prosecutors allege that for two years Mohammed was in frequent contact with
Mohammed Atta, the leader of the 19 September 11 hijackers. He is alleged to
have provided Atta and his team with money before giving the orders to go ahead
with the "Planes Operation".

After being pictured overweight, dishevelled and confused in a much-reproduced
photograph taken as he was captured, Mohammed has since appeared at hearings
looking thin and wearing a long beard. "I'm not making myself a hero, when I
said I was responsible for this or that," he told a June 2008 hearing. "I'm
looking to be a martyr for long time."

LOAD-DATE: April 4, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTNS


                  Copyright 2012 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              212 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                      April 4, 2012 Wednesday 3:11 PM GMT

Mumbai attack 'mastermind' Hafiz Saeed linked to Osama bin Laden;
A $10m bounty was placed on the head of a Pakistani militant leader after the US
obtained evidence he had been in close contact with Osama bin Laden, planning
terrorist attacks, according to a former American intelligence official.

BYLINE: By Rob Crilly Rawalpindi and Dean Nelson in New Delhi

LENGTH: 358 words


Documents found by US special forces at bin Laden's final hideaway in Abbottabad
last year apparently linked Hafiz Saeed, founder of Lashkar-e-Taiba, with the
al-Qaeda leader.

Bruce Riedel, a former CIA analyst and adviser to Barack Obama on Afghanistan
and Pakistan told The Daily Telegraph that the evidence showed bin Laden played
a key role in planning the 2008 Mumbai attacks.

166 people died when 10 terrorists, thought to be from Saeed's group, stormed
five star hotels and a train station in downtown Mumbai.

Mr Riedel said the close connection lasted right up until the world's most
wanted man was shot dead in May last year.

"OBL communicated with Saeed and others via courier. He practised very good
opsec [operations security]. The two had a long-standing relationship going back
to the creation of LeT in the 1980s," he said. "OBL provided some of the seed
money to start the group."

The US earlier claimed it had issued the bounty for information leading to
Saeed's arrest and conviction in response to his increasingly "brazen"
appearances, as part of a political movement to halt American drone strikes.

However, on Wednesday Saeed showed no sign of being intimidated.

Instead he mocked the US during a defiant press conference held close to the
country's military headquarters in Rawalpindi - in a clear illustration of his
ability to move freely through Pakistan.

"I am here, I am visible. America should give that reward money to me," he said.
"I will be in Lahore tomorrow. America can contact me whenever it wants to."

He also denied being in contact with the al-Qaeda leader, or helping shelter
him, during the last years of his life in a villa in the town of Abbottabad.

"We are Pakistani. We didn't need Osama bin Laden," he told The Daily Telegraph.

Saeed was arrested in the wake of the Mumbai attacks but later released on
appeal.

He said the bounty had been imposed at the behest of India and was motivated by
his campaign with the Defence of Pakistan council, which has been holding
anti-American rallies and demanding freedom for Kashmir.

He appeared flanked by leaders of the council, who announced a nationwide
protest on Friday.

LOAD-DATE: April 4, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTNS


                  Copyright 2012 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              213 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring Middle East - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                             April 5, 2012 Thursday

Algerian policeman killed, one wounded, in Tizi Ouzou "terrorist" attack

LENGTH: 157 words


Text of report by Nordine Douici headlined: "Tizi Ouzou: One policeman killed
and another seriously wounded in a terrorist attack," published by
privately-owned Algerian newspaper El Watan website on 4 April

A police vehicle belonging to the criminal police force of Tigzirt district was
the subject of a terrorist attack at about 1100 hours [local time] on National
Road [RN] 72, linking Tizi Ouzou to Tigzirt.

A major armed group whose number is unknown attacked the police car not far from
Bougie Bridge, according to local sources.

In this attack with automatic weapons, which occurred on the eastern edge of the
province's main town, two policemen were wounded, one of whom was seriously
struck, according to hospital sources.

The policeman succumbed to his injuries at about 1800 hours [local time]. He had
taken two bullets in the head and the abdomen. He was a 40-year-old officer.

Source: El Watan website, Algiers, in French 0000 gmt 4 Apr 12

LOAD-DATE: April 5, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2012 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              214 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                      Coventry Evening Telegraph (England)

                             April 5, 2012 Thursday
                                Nuneaton Edition

EX?PARTNER JAILED FOR TERROR ATTACK;
Mum suffered at hands of former boyfriend while her son looked on

BYLINE: Tina Junday

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 396  words


A MAN who subjected his exgirlfriend to a terrifying ordeal in front of her
young son has been jailed.

Richard John, aged 29, held a knife to his former partner's throat and
threatened to kill her at her home in Mulliner Street, Paradise, Coventry.

Her five-year-old son cried for his mum from the top of the stairs as John tied
her hands together with a washing line cord and gagged her with a tea-towel.

She suffered bruising on her legs, shoulders, hands and arms and suffered a nose
bleed.

At Coventry Crown Court John, of no fixed abode, was jailed for three and a half
years after pleading guilty to assault occasioning actual bodily harm.

Last month John was involved in a so-called Newton hearing which is held when
there are disputes over the facts of an offence.

He claimed he acted in selfdefence and denied using the knife to threaten her
but Recorder Mark Rhind ruled in favour of the victim's version of events. At a
resumed hearing, Sally Hancox, prosecuting, said John was on licence at the time
of the offence for intent to commit a robbery.

She said: "It is right to say Mr John agreed he had conspired with three other
offenders to use motor vehicles and commit a robbery. These matters amount to as
the facts of this case in any event."

Rose Burns, defending, said: "He has co-operated fully with the probation
service and is willing to attend more frequently than what is required of him.

"He wants to make sure he is clear of any kind of drugs including cannabis. He
really wants to be a role model and he had realised this offence has earned him
a lot of lack of respect.

"The offence he committed is what I have to accept. The complainant was
vulnerable and had her five-year-old son present."

Recorder Mark Rhind, sentencing, said: "You dragged her into the back garden,
had her in a choke hold, tied her up and threatened her.

"You pulled her hair and at various times caused her injury.

"It must have been a terrifying ordeal for her, going on for hours in her own
home in front of her young son who was woken by the noise and distressed.

"The real fear was that you might do something more stupid than you actually
did. It's about as serious an offence for this type you can get.

"The victim agrees she sent you hurtful text messages intending to upset you but
you are a grown man and it doesn't come close in justifying what you did in
response to that provocation."

LOAD-DATE: April 5, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2012 Coventry Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              215 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                          The Daily Telegraph (London)

                             April 5, 2012 Thursday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

CIA spooked by British courts;
US intelligence withheld information about Mumbai-style terror attacks because
they feared sources would be compromised Open justice 'essential to protect UK'

BYLINE: Robert Winnett

SECTION: NEWS; FRONT PAGE; Pg. 1,2

LENGTH: 981 words


AMERICAN spy agencies refused to give Britain's intelligence services full
details of a "Mumbai-style" terrorist plot in this country because they feared
that top-secret sources would be exposed, The Daily Telegraph can disclose.

The CIA warned MI6 that al-Qaeda was planning an attack 18 months ago, but
withheld detailed information because of concerns it would be released by
British courts.

British intelligence agencies were subsequently forced to carry out their own
investigations, according to Whitehall sources.

Several potential terrorists were identified with links to a wider European
plot, but it is still not known whether the British authorities have uncovered
the full extent of the threat.

The breakdown in relations came after the release of US intelligence in the case
of Binyam Mohamed, a former Guantánamo Bay detainee who took legal action over
his incarceration. The Government was subsequently forced to pay millions in
compensation to him and other detainees.

Conservative ministers are proposing establishing a system of "secret justice"
to allow sensitive intelligence to be heard in British courts behind closed
doors, but are facing mounting opposition from the Liberal Democrats.

Nick Clegg, the Deputy Prime Minister and Liberal Democrat leader, has written
to the National Security Council and warned that the security services "cannot
be allowed to ride roughshod over the principle of open justice".

Kenneth Clarke, the Justice Secretary, yesterday warned that unless judges were
allowed to hear evidence from MI5 and MI6 officers behind closed doors, lives
would be put at risk.

He said: "The Americans have got nervous that we are going to start revealing
some of their information, and they have started cutting back on what they
disclose.

"I'd love open justice but let's have some common sense here. Open justice
cannot be at the expense of lives being lost." It is understood that details
about the identity of intelligence sources and other sensitive information is no
longer shared by the CIA.

The issue was raised by President Barack Obama's security advisers with their
Downing Street counterparts during David Cameron's visit to Washington last
month.

MI6 was said to have been particularly "frustrated" after receiving "only the
tip, not the intelligence" about a plot in which armed terrorists dressed as
civilians were planning to mount an indiscriminate attack on British soil.

The plot echoed an attack by extremists in Mumbai in 2008, which led to the
deaths of 174 people. The CIA is also understood to have retrieved substantial
intelligence about potential threats to Britain from documents seized during the
raid on Osama bin Laden's compound in Pakistan.

Although information has been passed to British authorities from the
intelligence "cache", it is said to be far from a full read-out.

A senior British security source said: "The urgent threat-to-life operational
material is still coming, as it should.

"But we see strong signs of a greater reluctance to share some of the other
stuff - the building blocks, the bits that let you put the jigsaw together."

Under the plans, intelligence could be disclosed and MI5 and MI6 agents
cross-examined in secret courts presided over by security-cleared judges with
special lawyers. It would apply to civil cases and inquests, but not to criminal
trials. The decision on whether evidence should be considered secretly would be
taken by judges rather than ministers, as had been proposed. The role of secret
evidence in inquests is also likely to be constrained.

Legal experts and MPs are concerned that the system does not allow defence
lawyers properly to "test" the probity of the evidence.

Yesterday, a parliamentary committee said that the controversial proposals were
based on "vague predictions" and "spurious assertions" about the future
consequences of not introducing legislation.

It concluded that the plans represented a "radical departure from long-standing
traditions of open justice".

Mr Clegg, who is initially said to have supported the proposals, is now
understood to be growing increasingly concerned over the plan.

He also gave an interview in which he accused the Government of making a
"blunderbuss" in the presentation of the policy.

Ed Miliband, the Labour leader, wants the legislation to be withheld from next
month's Queen's Speech and the Government is expected to water down its plans.
Lord Carlile, the Liberal Democrat peer and former independent reviewer of
terrorism legislation, said: "We need some consistency from the Government on
these issues, and a proper part played by the Government before the political
criticism starts, much of it very poorly informed I'm afraid."

The row over the secret justice plans has coincided with growing concerns over
proposals to allow the authorities to monitor social media websites and other
new forms of web-based communication.

Mr Cameron insisted that the reforms were essential to protect Britons.

He said: "It is the job of the Prime Minister to make sure that we do everything
that is necessary to keep our country safe, particularly to keep our country
safe from serious and organised crime, and also from terrorist threats that we
have faced in this country, that we still face in this country.

"As I see it, there are some significant gaps in our defences, gaps because of
the moving-on of technology - people making telephone calls through the
internet, rather than through fixed line - but also gaps in our defences because
it isn't currently possible to use intelligence information in a court of law
without sometimes endangering national security.

"I want us - and the Government wants us - to plug those gaps, but let's be
clear, we will do it in a way that properly respects civil liberties."

He added there was "still time to deal with everybody's concerns".

Hypocrisy over secret justice: Page 6

'SURPRISE! It's your secret trial'

LOAD-DATE: April 5, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DTL


                  Copyright 2012 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              216 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring South Asia - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                              April 6, 2012 Friday

Pakistan home minister orders probe into terror attacks on police

LENGTH: 93 words


Text of report published by Pakistani newspaper Daily Times website on 6 April

Karachi: Sindh Home Minister Manzoor Hussain Wasan Thursday [5 April] said that
orders to initiated probe into two attacks on police in Karachi has already been
issued. Talking to media after the funeral prayer of the slain cops at Police
Headquarter Garden, he said police and rangers were fully alert in Karachi. He
said the sacrifices of law enforcers would not go waste and the lawbreakers
would be brought to justice soon.

Source: Daily Times website, Lahore, in English 06 Apr 12

LOAD-DATE: April 6, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2012 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              217 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                       BBC Monitoring Trans Caucasus Unit
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                              April 6, 2012 Friday

Security ministry thwarts terror attack in western Azeri town

LENGTH: 181 words


Text of report by private Azerbaijani news agency APA

Baku, 6 April: An armed incident in Azerbaijan's Ganca town has left two people
dead and five others injured. An officer of the law-enforcement agencies has
died and three have been injured during the incident. From the opposite side,
one died and two were injured. The killed gunman had an explosive device and
therefore, specialists have been summoned to the venue. The operation has not
been completed yet.

The corpse of the killed officer and other injured people have been delivered to
Baku by a helicopter.

Ganca town Chief Police Department has reported that [Azerbaijani] National
Security Ministry carried an operation at 0400 hours [2300 gmt] last night
against an armed group preparing to carry out a terrorist attack in Ganca.

The head of public relations department of the National Security Ministry, Arif
Babayev, has confirmed that the ministry carried an operation in Ganca. The
operation is still continuing and therefore, no additional information was
provided.

Source: APA news agency, Baku, in Azeri 0802 gmt 6 Apr 12

LOAD-DATE: April 6, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2012 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              218 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                       BBC Monitoring Trans Caucasus Unit
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                              April 6, 2012 Friday

Wahhabis involved in terror attack in western Azeri town - news agency

LENGTH: 231 words


Text of report by private Azerbaijani news agency Turan

Ganca, 6 April: Lt-Col Elsad Quliyev of the National Security Ministry died this
morning in an operation carried out in the second most important Azerbaijani
town of Ganca.

It was revealed later that the operation was carried out against three Wahhabis
who were the residents of Zaqatala District and staying in a rented apartment in
Tabriz Street 93 [in Ganca]. During the arrest, they put up armed resistance.
One of the Wahhabis blew up himself and several officers of the National
Security Ministry. As a result of the explosion, the officer and the Wahhabi
whose name is not mentioned, died.

Another two radical Islamists were detained.

The same source reports that the similar operation was carried out in the town
of Zaqatala in north-western Azerbaijan where four Islamist have been detained.

Currently, a commission of experts and an investigative group are working on the
venue of the incident. No official comments have been made yet.

[Qafqazinfo.az reported on 6 April that the gunman who blew himself up and
security officers with a grenade was a citizen of Russia's Dagestan and had set
up a "Cell House" centre in Ganca together with his friends. The report did not
give further details about the centre.]

Source: Turan news agency, Baku, in Russian 1219 gmt 6 Apr 12; Qafqazinfo news
website, Baku, in Azeri 0915 gmt 6 Apr 12

LOAD-DATE: April 6, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2012 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              219 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                    BBC Monitoring Asia Pacific - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                             April 7, 2012 Saturday

Indonesia: Anti-terror chief warns of possible chemical attacks

LENGTH: 174 words


Text of report by Adi Wicaksono headlined "Indonesian Terrorists Begin Using
Chemical Weapons" published by Indonesian newspaper Republika website on 28
March

Bogor: Acts of terrorism in Indonesia are becoming increasingly sophisticated.
Not only the threat of homemade bombs, but they have also begun using chemical
weapons.

Head of the National Counterterrorism Agency (BNPT), Ansyaad MBai, said that
there are three potential types of terrorist attacks in Indonesia; terror bombs,
armed attacks, and the use of hazardous chemicals.

Based on the investigation, the use of chemical materials is growing. "Chemical
attacks have the potential to increase," he said after completing a terrorism
simulation held at the Engineering Education Center (Pusdikzi), Bogor, Wednesday
(28/3).

In the simulation, it was demonstrated what a team from Gegana and other units
do after an explosion to detect the presence of radioactive compounds. In the
incident, 20 civilians were killed from a suicide bombing.

Source: Republika, Jakarta, in Indonesian 28 Mar 12

LOAD-DATE: April 7, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2012 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              220 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                            Nottingham Evening Post

                             April 7, 2012 Saturday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

COUPLE'S ARSON ATTACK TERROR;
Woken by blaze after petrol was poured through letterbox and lit Couple's arson
terror

BYLINE: Emma Matthews

SECTION: NEWS; FRONT PAGE; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 544 words


A COUPLE have been left terrified in their own home after petrol was poured
through their letterbox and set alight.

Gemma Moran and her partner Justin Swift were woken by their smoke alarm going
off in the early hours of Monday morning.

They ran downstairs to find their PVC door alight and the fire spreading to the
floor around it.

The couple, of Rivergreen, Clifton, fought to put out the blaze before escaping
with their two miniature daschunds Minnie and Molly and phoning the emergency
services.

"We are very lucky to be alive," said Miss Moran, 34. "I don't think we would be
here if the smoke alarm hadn't gone off."

She added: "I have never been so scared in my life. It is an experience I would
not wish on my worst enemy.

"I'm scared to leave the house in case anything else happens. If someone is
prepared to go to these extreme lengths, you don't know what else they could
do." Miss Moran said they were woken by the smoke alarms at about 1.20am on
Monday morning.

"We struggled to the top of the stairs and were immediately hit by the smell of
plastic and our PVC door burning," she said.

"We are lucky that we have a stone floor in the downstairs hallway and not
carpet. "It would have spread a lot quicker and we would have been stuck
upstairs." Mr Swift, 38, ran to the kitchen to get water to pour on the blaze
while Miss Moran used a damp tea towel to extinguish the flames. Miss Moran
believes petrol was poured through the letterbox before being set on fire.
Although the couple acted quickly, the blaze still caused significant damage to
the entrance of their home. "There is a big gaping hole in the PVC door where it
melted," said Miss Moran, a subject administrator at Nottingham Trent
University. "The smoke travelled upstairs and got into all our woodwork and the
ceiling is smoke-dama g ed. "The fire crews used a big fan to blow the smoke out
through the property, so it has got everywhere really." Once the couple got
outside through a back door, they phoned for help. Miss Moran, an asthmatic, was
treated for smoke inhalation by paramedics on the scene while fire crews made
sure the property was safe. Notts Police are now investigating the incident, but
Miss Moran, who has lived in the house for 12 years, said she can't understand
why somebody would do it. "We have never had any trouble before in our lives,"
she said. "I still can't get my head around what happened. "It doesn't feel
real. It seems like something off the TV. Everybody is really shocked." A
spokeswoman for Notts Fire and Rescue confirmed that fire crews had attended the
incident, and that the fire seems to have been caused deliberately by setting
flammable liquid alight. She added: "This incident demonstrates the importance
of having smoke alarms that work. It gave them valuable time to put the fire out
and get themselves to safety." A spokesman for Notts Police said that no arrests
had been made in relation to the incident and that investigations were still
ongoing. ¦ Anybody who may have information about the incident, or saw anybody
acting suspiciously at around 1.30am on Monday April 2, should call Notts Police
on 101 or Crimestoppers on 0800 555 111.

'' It doesn't feel real. It seems like something off the TV. Everybody is really
shocked Gemma Moran

LOAD-DATE: April 7, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Target: Gemma Moran with the couple's damaged door. PICTURE: SHAWN RYAN
NOSR20120403L-
PICTURE: SHAWN RYAN NOSR20120403L-068_C

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: NEP


                     Copyright 2012 Nottingham Evening Post
                              All Rights Reserved

                              221 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                   MailOnline

                       April 9, 2012 Monday 10:28 PM GMT

Targeting our economy: Security forces on high alert after intelligence chiefs
warn government of possible terrorist attacks on oil refineries

BYLINE: ARMAN SHARMA, HAKEEM IRFAN, DIPANJAN ROY CHAUDHURY and SPS PANNU

LENGTH: 845 words


The Petroleum industry, which oils the wheels of the country's economy, is in
the crosshairs of terrorists.

A recent input provided by the Intelligence Bureau (IB) pinpoints a terror
threat from Pakistan-based group Lashkar-e-Tayyeba (LeT) to two of the biggest
oil refineries in India - the Reliance Industries Limited plant at Jamnagar in
Gujarat, and the Bathinda-based newly commissioned unit in Punjab which is a
joint venture between Mittal Energy Limited and Hindustan Petroleum Corporation
Limited (HPCL).

While general intelligence alerts about likely terror strikes on such
installations have emanated on several occasions in the past, this is the first
threat that specifically mentions the impending targets by name. Security
agencies confirmed to Mail Today on Monday that the IB had written to petroleum
minister Jaipal Reddy in this regard.

The confidential communication, to which Mail Today has access, stated: 'Oil
industries (including refineries and pipelines) in India continue to be high on
the agenda of LeT. Their operatives are learnt to be collecting information on
installations in the oil sector, including the RIL refinery in Jamnagar and
installations in the vicinity of Amritsar, Bathinda and other places.'

Asserting that this was a precise piece of information, a top Central Industrial
Security Force (CISF) official disclosed to Mail Today that a nearly 250-member
commando unit of the outfit posted at the Jamnagar refinery had been put on high
alert.

The state police forces of Gujarat and Punjab have also been instructed to step
up vigil at both sites. RIL has set up two adjacent oil refineries at Jamnagar
with a massive capacity of processing 62 million tons of crude a year, which is
among the largest in the world.

CISF provides perimeter security to the Jamnagar refinery from the side of the
Arabian Sea as well as from the city. The unit is the only private refinery in
the country where the force's personnel are deployed.

The precautionary move was prompted by the 26/11 Mumbai terror strike in 2008.
Pakistani- American LeT operative David Coleman Headley had also disclosed to
the National Investigation Agency (NIA) that the group planned to infiltrate
terrorists through Gujarat from the sea route and a key refinery in the coastal
state was a potential target. Located bang on the west coast, this refinery has,
in fact, been on the Pakistani terrorists' radar since 2007.

According to security agencies, its proximity to the Gulf of Kutch makes the
refinery a terror target from the sea as well as the air. The CISF commandos
have been positioned here from October 2010 onwards in response to a request
from Reliance. The force's security detail at the site includes quick reaction
teams (QRTs).

The `20,472-crore Guru Gobind Singh Refinery at Bathinda is a brand new plant
that was fully commissioned and started commercial production of petrol, diesel,
jet fuel and LPG as recently as March 29. It is a collaborative venture between
public sector undertaking HPCL and steel magnate Laxmi Mittal's company.

The 9-milliontonne- a-year refinery aims to bridge the large demand/supply
mismatch of petroleum products faced in the northern region of the country. It
is equipped to meet the needs of the defence forces, too. The proximity of this
refinery to the Pakistan border in Punjab and its economic worth as a
publicprivate enterprise has aroused the interest of terrorists in it.

The IB report points out that the terror threat to the two key oil refineries is
part of LeT's larger game plan to target key economic institutions and symbols
in India, including atomic plants.

'These intercepts, received at regular intervals over the last few years, are
being taken seriously. The security agencies have been on alert all along,' a
source said.

Since July 2011, commandos of the National Security Guard (NSG) have been
conducting drills by touching down at critical installations aboard specially
hired civilian aircraft to gauge their reaction time. Among the sites the NSG
has covered are the Bhabha Atomic Research Centre (BARC) project in
Visakhapatnam, which it accesses from its regional hub in Hyderabad, and the
Reliance Jamnagar refinery that the security agency reaches from its new set-up
in Mumbai.

Last year, the Union home ministry had sounded a nationwide alert after
receiving inputs that LeT was looking to target World Cup cricket matches in
India and vital oil installations along the coastline.

This information came from the U.S., which also shared it with Pakistan and
directed the latter to act against the plotters. Way back in May 2006, the
petroleum ministry had written to public sector oil companies, cautioning them
against the designs of undercover operatives from the Pakistani High Commission
on the scout for economic intelligence.

While tracking the Pakistani operatives through telephone calls, the IB had
found that efforts were being made to assimilate details about the functioning
of oil companies, the quality and quantity of fuel being produced and the firms'
future plans.

LOAD-DATE: April 9, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDM


                   Copyright 2012 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              222 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                   MailOnline

                        April 9, 2012 Monday 2:24 AM GMT

Next up - lunch in Pakistan: PM accepts Zardari's invitation and is willing to
move ahead on peace - but 26/11 terror attack could be stumbling block

BYLINE: DIPANJAN ROY CHAUDHURY and AMAN SHARMA

LENGTH: 1169 words


The 40-minute one-on-one conversation between Prime Minister Manmohan Singh and
Pakistan President Asif Ali Zardari on Sunday served as an appetiser for the
sumptuous four-course lunch that followed at 7 Race Course Road, where two heirs
apparent - Rahul Gandhi and Bilawal Bhutto - shared thoughts seated right next
to each other.

What really transpired at the meeting is something only the principals know. But
it was clear from reading between the lines of the brief statements made by the
two leaders that there had been a fast-forwarding of the slow pace of India-
Pakistan peace process.

President Zardari's reiteration of the invitation to the PM to visit Pakistan,
and the latter's formal acceptance were a signal that the two countries intended
giving a push to peace talks which take place under the rubric of the composite
dialogue.

This was clear from the references to the need to bring Lashkar-e-Tayyeba
founder and 26/11 terror strike mastermind Hafiz Saeed to justice made by the
Indian side, and to Siachen and Kashmir by the Pakistanis.

'President Zardari has invited me to visit Pakistan. I would be very happy to
visit Pakistan on a mutually convenient date,' Singh said somewhat
diplomatically after the meeting that stretched beyond the scheduled time.

[IMG 4530189 noborder /]

The statement suggested that there was still some groundwork to be done before
an Indian PM would visit Islamabad. Foreign secretary Ranjan Mathai did not add
much more when he said later that the PM had accepted the invitation with
pleasure and 'would be happy' to visit Pakistan at an appropriate time.

'The diplomatic channels will be used to work out mutually acceptable dates and
substantive preparations for that visit,' Mathai added.

Singh and Zardari made short statements after their meeting. Singh revealed that
they had 'constructive talks', and the two sides were 'willing to find
practical, pragmatic solutions to all issues'.

He also said it was a 'common wish that ties should normalise between the two
countries'.

Many issues were discussed and he was satisfied with the outcome. Zardari
thanked his host, said Pakistan would like to have better relations with India
and expressed the hope that he would meet Singh soon on Pakistani soil.

Both sides agreed that they should tap into the trade potential, and the signing
of a liberalised visa agreement soon was also discussed. While Singh never
committed to undertaking such a visit on any earlier occasion, he obliged
Zardari this time even as the Pakistan President was in India for a private
trip.

It was Singh who had invited Zardari for the luncheon before the latter's trip
to Ajmer to offer prayers at the dargah of Sufi saint Khwaja Moinuddin Chisti.
Dressed in a black and white Pathani suit, 23-year-old scion Bilawal announced
his arrival in India along with father Zardari by tweeting 'AOA India Peace be
with you'.

He noted that there was much to learn from each other after breaking bread with
Rahul and the PM.

The father-son duo visited the revered Ajmer shrine in the afternoon. Zardari,
who had last visited the shrine in 2003, was presented a ring studded with nine
gems.

'President Zardari prayed here...He announced a donation of $1 million for the
shrine,' dargah caretaker Syed Zeeshan Kaptan said in Ajmer.

'We have had some fruitful bilateral talks. Pakistan would like to have better
ties with India.We spoke on all topics that we could' - President Zardari

The Pakistani entourage returned to Pakistan late in the evening. Incidentally,
the PM's positive response to Zardari's invitation earlier in the day came less
than a fortnight after he had told mediapersons on his way back from Seoul that
he would visit Pakistan only if it did 'something solid' that could be
celebrated.

All the same, reinforcing the point that India had stood its ground during the
discussion, Mathai said the Prime Minister had taken up the 26/11 matter upfront
with Zardari by highlighting the need to bring the perpetrators of the terror
strike to justice.

Diplomatic sources revealed that Singh told Zardari that the process of
normalisation of ties between both countries would rest on the expectation of
the Indian people that the 26/11 perpetrators would be brought to justice.

On Sunday, however, Pakistan seemed to have relegated both these issues to the
level of a homesecretary dialogue.

[IMG 4530453 noborder /]

'President Zardari said the issue needed to be discussed further between the two
governments. It was noted that the home secretaries of both countries were due
to meet shortly and they would be taking it up,' Mathai said.

The sources also disclosed that Zardari considered Pakistan a bigger victim of
terror than India and cited the alibi of legal processes in Islamabad to duck
Singh's assertions of the urgency to act.

Furthermore, Zardari made it a point to raise the thorny issues of Kashmir, Sir
Creek and Siachen in the meeting and mentioned that these issues should be
addressed.

India called for a step-by-step approach.

'We have a number of issues and are willing to find practical and pragmatic
solutions to all those issues,' the PM said.

But a close aide of Singh recalled that some weeks ago he had expressed his deep
desire to push for better relations with Pakistan whenever the chance arose.

'The matter is close to his heart...it was evident at the luncheon meeting on
Sunday,' the aide said.

Luncheon diplomacy hasn't worked before

By DIPANJAN ROY CHAUDHURY

Asif Ali Zardari's luncheon diplomacy may have won many hearts but there is no
guarantee this exercise will help achieve peace between the two nuclear
neighbours.

History shows all such initiatives since the mid-1990s by the Indian Prime
Ministers and reciprocated by leaders in Islamabad have been futile with
hardline elements in the Pakistani establishment sparing no efforts to scuttle
moves to normalise ties.

PM Manmohan Singh has also played his part in launching peace initiatives, first
with Pervez Musharraf and then with Yousaf Raza Gilani.

Though after 26/11, India hasn't witnessed any major terror strikes except the
ones in Pune, Mumbai and Delhi, the past paints a bleak picture. The then PM
Atal Bihari Vajpayee's bus trip to Lahore in early 1999 to reach out to his
counterpart Nawaz Sharif was reciprocated with the Kargil War in May-June 1999
and the IC-814 hijacking.

Two years later, Musharraf was in Agra and Parliament was attacked in December
2001. In January 2004, Vajpayee travelled to Islamabad for the Saarc Summit.
Musharraf, in the joint statement, promised Pakistani territory won't be used
for anti-India terror activities. Musharraf and his wife visited India in 2005
to watch an Indo-Pak cricket ODI in Delhi.

But such bonhomie failed to prevent terror strikes between 2004 and the 26/11
attack. In fact, 26/11 took place while then Pakistan foreign minister Shah
Mehmood Qureshi was in India. Dipanjan Roy Chaudhury/New Delhi

LOAD-DATE: April 9, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDM


                   Copyright 2012 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              223 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                   The Mirror

                              April 9, 2012 Monday
                                  Eire Edition

EASTER PARTY GUN TERROR;
THREE BLASTED IN ATTACK ON HOME

BYLINE: CATHAL MCMAHON

SECTION: NEWS; FRONT PAGE; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 90 words


THREE innocent revellers were rushed to hospital after a gunman opened fire on
an Easter party.

Kenneth Smith, his sister Chantelle Brogan and pal Lee Byrne were hosting the
get-together in Corduff Grove, West Dublin, when the shooting took place early
yesterday.

They were later released having suffered minor injuries.

Speaking last night, Mr Smith said he didn't understand why his home had been
targeted.

He added: "I'm just completely shaken at the moment.

"I'm only getting out of hospital, it is such a shock."

SEE PAGE 5 INJURED JKenneth Smith

LOAD-DATE: April 9, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PROBE¦ Gardai at West Dublin house yesterday INJURED Smith

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                            Copyright 2012 MGN Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              224 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring Middle East - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                             April 10, 2012 Tuesday

Lebanese TV crew attacked while Syrian forces fought terrorist group - website

LENGTH: 152 words


Text of report in English by state-run Syrian news agency SANA website

["Media Source: Al-Jadeed Team Hit while Syrian Border Guards' Post Came under
Fire by Terrorist Group..." - SANA Headline]

Damascus, (SANA) A media source said that Al-Jadid TV press team which came
under heavy fire on Monday in Wadi Khalid on the Syrian-Lebanese borders was in
a border area that witnesses repeated daily infiltration attempts by gunmen and
gunfire by armed terrorist groups.

The source added that a post for the Syrian border guards came under fire by an
armed terrorist group simultaneously when al-Jadid TV team was in the area,
seemingly in an attempt to infiltrate across the borders to carry out terrorist
attacks, and the guards responded to the fire.

The source expressed warm condolences to the family of al-Jadid photographer Ali
Shaaban and al-Jadeed TV.

Source: SANA news agency website, Damascus in English 9 Apr 12

LOAD-DATE: April 10, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2012 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              225 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                 thetimes.co.uk

                       April 10, 2012 Tuesday 9:43 AM GMT

Terror suspect: police attacked as I tried to surrender

BYLINE: David Brown

SECTION: CRIME

LENGTH: 569 words


A suspected terrorist denied being an "al-Qaeda superman" as he was accused of
using his martial arts skills to fight police officers accused of assaulting
him.

Babar Ahmad said he accepted the officers from Scotland Yard's Territorial
Support Group had been told he was a "highly dangerous terrorist" before an
operation to raid his home.

Mr Babar told Southwark Crown Court that he had his arms up in the surrender
position when the officers entered his bedroom in December 2003.

The IT support worker claims two officers forced his arms behind his back and
and rammed his head into the window, breaking the glass. He denied he had
"fought like a man possessed".

"I was surrendering, I always intended to surrender," he told the court. "I had
nothing to gain and everything to lose by not surrendering.

"There was no struggle, there was no resistance, there was no fighting. They
wanted to punch and swear at me before forcing me to the ground."

Mr Babar accepted the police officers had been told before the raid that that he
was a dangerous terrorist suspect.

"They had a briefing that I am al-Qaeda superman but I do not agree that I am
that sort of man," he said. "I know I have been described as an al-Qaeda, Jackie
Chan, Rambo figure but that is not true."

Mr Babar agreed that he was "battle hardened "and had been training up to five
times a week in wing chun, a form of kung fu involving close combat.

The court heard that had gone to Bosnia at 18 to fight with Muslim forces in
"one of the nastiest and dirtiest of wars".

Mr Babar said he went to war zones three or four times over three years and was
injured by a hand grenade which left shrapnel in his head.

"When I went to Bosnia awful thing were happening and I wanted to stop that," he
said. "For a young man of 18 it was a very deep experience. It was a war zone."

Mr Babar said there was a blunt replica Samurai sword in a box under his bed
which he had bought on the internet auction site eBay as a decoration.

Richard Atchley, defending PC Roderick James-Bowen, said: "You are not some IT
techy nerd. You are a battle-hardened man, six months from a black belt with a
Samurai sword in you bedroom."

He described Mr Babar as "a mercenary".

The court has heard that Mr Ahmad was suspected of being the head of a small
group of British terrorists and had fought abroad as part of a "holy war".

An MI5 surveillance device placed in Mr Babar's prayer room recorded police
officers during the raid on his home in Tooting, South London. The jury have
heard the 12 minute recording.

Mr Babar, 37, claims he was beaten and sworn at in his home, in a police van and
at Charing Cross Police Station in Central London.

After spending six days in custody Mr Ahmad, who has a masters degree in
aeronautical engineering from Imperial College London, was released without
charge.

He was arrested again the following year at the request of the United States and
remains in custody while appealing the decision of the Home Secretary to approve
his extradition.

Judge Geoffrey Rivlin told Mr Babar that he does not need to answer any question
which "might implicate you in any criminal offence, whether that offence might
be prosecuted in the UK or in the US".

PCs James-Bowen, 40, John Donohue, 37, Mark Jones and 43, Nigel Cowley, 34, all
deny assault. All the officers were based at Paddington Green Police Station at
the time of the attack. The trial continues.

LOAD-DATE: April 11, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBTTO


                     Copyright 2012 News International Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                              226 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring Middle East - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                            April 11, 2012 Wednesday

Algerian soldier killed by "terrorist" attack in northern province

LENGTH: 273 words


Text of report by Imene Brahimi, headlined:" "One Soldier Killed and Two Others
Seriously Wounded in the Explosion of a Bomb Near Tizi Ouzou (Updated)",
published by Algerian electronic daily Tout sur l'Algerie website on 10 April

One soldier was killed and two others seriously injured this Tuesday, 10 April,
at 1300 hours in the explosion of a homemade bomb near the village of Thala
Mimoun, in the community of Mizrana, located 40 kilometres north of the city of
Tizi Ouzou, Tout sur l'Algerie has learned from security sources in the region.

The three soldiers were on board a civilian vehicle that had been coming out of
the military billet that has existed for several years when the explosion
occurred as they drove past, killing one and seriously wounding two among the
vehicle's occupants.

According to security sources, the explosive device was allegedly triggered
remotely by terrorists who had undoubtedly been keeping under surveillance the
movements of elements from the National People's Army [ANP] posted to that
billet, located on the edge of the Mizrana maquis, known for being one of the
most important fiefs of Al-Qa'idah in the Lands of the Islamic Maghreb [AQIM;
formerly the Salafi Group for Call and Combat, the GSPC] in Kabylie. A huge
military offensive was launched by the ANP's troops in the surrounding maquis.

This bomb attack, by way of a reminder, occurred less than one week after the
lethal attack that targeted the forces of the Judicial Police Mobile Brigade
[BMPJ] in the spot known as Le Pont de Bougie at the eastern edge of the city of
Tizi Ouzou.

Source: Tout sur l'Algerie website, in French 10 Apr 12

LOAD-DATE: April 11, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2012 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              227 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                              Liverpool Daily Echo

                            April 11, 2012 Wednesday
                                  1ST Edition

LASER TERROR;
Revealed: The shocking truth about attacks on JLA flights

BYLINE: JOHN SIDDLE

SECTION: NEWS; FRONT PAGE; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 26 words


PILOTS landing at John Lennon Airport reported 93 separate attacks by laser pens
last year - with one crew member left temporarily blinded.? Full story: P4&5

LOAD-DATE: April 11, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: le


               Copyright 2012 The Liverpool Daily Post & Echo Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                              228 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                              Liverpool Daily Echo

                            April 11, 2012 Wednesday
                                  2ND Edition

LASER TERROR;
Revealed: The shocking truth about attacks on JLA flights  EXCLUSIVE

BYLINE: JOHN SIDDLE

SECTION: NEWS; FRONT PAGE; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 26 words


PILOTS landing at John Lennon Airport reported 93 separate attacks by laser pens
last year - with one crew member left temporarily blinded.? Full story: P4&5

LOAD-DATE: April 11, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: le


               Copyright 2012 The Liverpool Daily Post & Echo Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                              229 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                      April 12, 2012 Thursday 10:43 PM GMT

Hackers hunted after attacking anti-terror hotline;
An investigation was under way last night after teenage hackers targeted
Scotland Yard's anti-terror hotline and posted a conversation between officials
on the internet.

BYLINE: Christopher Williams and Hannah Furness

LENGTH: 748 words


An organisation called Team Poison claimed to have carried out the cyber-attack
in response to the alleged detention of innocent people on terrorism charges and
the recent ruling to deport a number of terror suspects to the United States

The Daily Telegraph also understands that the group was angry at Government
plans to introduce so-called snooping laws, allowing the authorities greater
access to personal communications.

The group, which claims to have carried out a string of similar assaults on
other organisations including Nato, launched a two day "phone bombing" exercise
against the anti-terror hotline, jamming the network and preventing genuine
callers from getting through.

It is understood Team Poison used readily available software to bombard the
Scotland Yard phone line, but routed the activity through a computer server
based in Malaysia in order to cover their tracks.

The hackers then claim to have exploited a "weakness" in the Scotland Yard's
phone system to eavesdrop and record a conversation between officials discussing
the incident.

Recordings of the conversations were later posted on internet, suggesting an
embarrassing lapse of security within Scotland Yard's counter-terrorism unit.

Last night the Metropolitan Police insisted that their phone security had not
been breached the integrity of the confidential anti-terror hotline remained
intact.

In one recording, an alleged hacker, who has an American accent, is heard
goading one of the hotline operatives about the phone-bombing exercise.

The caller, who claimed to be called Robert West, told the official:

"I got some terrorism for you here .... our philosophy is pretty simple, it's
knowledge is power."

More worryingly for the security services however is the question of how hackers
apparently managed to record a conversation between two officials within
Scotland Yard discussing the incident.

One operative is heard telling another that the anti-terror hotline had been
inundated with hundreds of calls from the hacking group.

In a recording posted on the internet he is heard to say: "We have been
subjected to a barrage of calls from a group called Team Poison.

We have had about 700 calls over the last couple of nights. One of the
conversations I had last night was leaked on YouTube.

"Everyone else calling was effectively shut out and could not through at all."

It is not clear how the group managed to listen in to the conversation, but one
theory is that the receiving handset was compromised during the phone-bombing
exercise.

One member of Team Poison allegedly claimed to have used a well established
system of phone hacking known as Phreaking.

He said: "It was very easy, they were using an old phone system which was
vulnerable to a private phreaking method that we discovered.

He added: "The guys at the Counter Terrorist Command are clowns, whilst
listening in on them, all they do is socialise and joke around with other
employees. But to be honest, they are the real terrorists, imprisoning innocent
people without evidence and invading countries for their own benefit."

Explaining what had motivated the attack, the alleged hacker claimed it was in
response to Britain's treatment of terror suspects.

He said: "We done it due to the recent events where the counter terrorist
command and the UK court system have allowed the extradition of Babar Ahmad,
Adel Abdel Bary (sic) and a few others - we also done it to due the new
"snooping" laws where the GCHQ can "spy" on anyone and everyone."

He added: "Our members come from all over the world, we have no religion, no
race, we are not affiliated with any other groups, we believe in equality for
all & were anarchists."

It is the second time in a matter of months that hackers have gained access to
private telephone conversations involving Scotland Yard personnel.

In February hackers from the group known as Anonymous released a recording of a
conference call between the FBI and UK police in which they were discussing
efforts to catch hackers.

Last night, Ailsa Beaton, Director of Information for the Metropolitan Police
said: "We are confident the MPS communication systems have not been breached and
remain, as they always have been, secure.

"We are satisfied that any recording would have been made via the receiving
handset only and not from an attack on internal systems.

The public can remain confident in the ability to communicate in confidence and
that the integrity of the Anti-Terrorist Hotline remains in place."

LOAD-DATE: April 12, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTNS


                  Copyright 2012 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              230 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring Middle East - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                             April 13, 2012 Friday

Syrian "terrorist groups" escalate attacks during ceasefire - SANA website

LENGTH: 397 words


Text of report in English by state-run Syrian news agency SANA website

["An officer assasinated in Damascus Countryside, another martyred, 24 wounded
in explosive device bla..." - SANA headline]

Provinces, (SANA) - A First Lieutenant officer was martyred while 24 officers,
non-commissioned officers and a number of civilians were wounded in an explosive
device blast in Aleppo.

An official source told SANA correspondent that "The blast took place at 8:00 am
as an armed terrorist group targeted a military bus with an explosive device at
the Southern Bypass area, near al-Nirab Airport Bridge in Aleppo."

The bus was carrying a number of officers and non-commissioned officers while on
way to their workplace.

Director of Aleppo Military Hospital Brigadier-General Dr Muhammad Usamah
Qashqash said that the injuries varied in degrees of severity, adding that three
persons are in a critical condition.

A number of law-enforcement members wounded in an explosive device blast in
Idleb

Another armed terrorist group targeted a law-enforcement vehicle with an
explosive device at Wadi Haj Khalid region in Idlib.

An official source told SANA correspondent that an officer and a number of
law-enforcement members were wounded in the explosion.

Armed terrorist group assassinates citizen in Dar'a

In Daraa, an armed terrorist group assassinated Nasir Bhkait Nasir, Secretary of
Al-Ba'th Party Department in Al-Mazarib town while he was heading to buy bread.

Witnesses told SANA correspondent that the terrorists opened fire on Nasir from
a black Kia car without license plates which caused his immediate death.

Forensic Doctor Mansur al-Husain at Dar'a National Hospital said that the martyr
had eight bullet wounds in different parts of his body.

A terrorist group assassinated brigadier general Walid Jouni in Jaramana

An armed terrorist group assassinated Brigadier-General Walid Juni in Jaramana,
Damascus Countryside.

According to a source in the Interior Ministry, the terrorists ringed last night
the bell of the Martyr's house, fifth flat, and sprayed him with bullets once he
opened the door.

The foreign-backed armed terrorist groups in Syria have been escalating their
attacks, arsons and assassinations especially following the Syrian Army decision
to halt its badly-needed operations against the terrorists.

R. Raslan/ Al-Ibrahim

Source: SANA news agency website, Damascus in English 13 Apr 12

LOAD-DATE: April 13, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2012 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              231 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                          Future News - Media Planner

                             April 13, 2012 Friday

Denmark terror trial after 'plot to attack Muhammad cartoon newspaper'

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 43 words


Denmark: Terror trial begins against four Swedish residents charged with
terrorism for allegedly planning an attack on the Jyllands-Posten newspaper that
published cartoons of the Prophet Muhammad in 2005

Event Start Date: 2012-04-13

Event End Date: 2012-04-13

LOAD-DATE: April 13, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                             Copyright 2012 Precise
                              All Rights Reserved

                              232 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                          Future News - Media Planner

                             April 13, 2012 Friday

Denmark terror trial after 'plot to attack Muhammad cartoon newspaper'

SECTION: NEWS; Political Events; Security & Terrorism

LENGTH: 43 words


Denmark: terror trial begins against four Swedish residents charged with
terrorism for allegedly planning an attack on the 'Jyllands-Posten' newspaper
that published cartoons of the Prophet Muhammad in 2005

Event Start Date: 2012-04-13

Event End Date: 2012-04-13

LOAD-DATE: April 19, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                             Copyright 2012 Precise
                              All Rights Reserved

                              233 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                              Liverpool Daily Echo

                             April 13, 2012 Friday
                                  2ND Edition

MAN, 22, SHOT ON CITY STREET;
Victim in 'serious condition' after gun attack terror

BYLINE: JOHN SIDDLE

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 336 words


A MAN was today recovering from emergency surgery after being gunned down on a
city street.

The 22-year-old was blasted in the leg on Wye Street in Everton shortly before
11pm last night.

One witness today told how they heard the gun being fired before seeing a
motorbike speed away from the scene.

Detectives were hoping to speak to the victim at greater length in his hospital
bed today. They said it was too soon to say whether the attack was targeted.

Officers from the police's anti-guns Matrix unit flooded into the area, sealing
off a number of houses and a small grass bank.

Residents heard the single shot but many didn't realise what they had heard
until waking to the sight of the cordon this morning.

A pensioner, who lives just yards from where the shooting took place, said: "I
heard the bang and looked out of the window and saw a man on one of those small
motorbikes ride past on to St Domingo Road. I don't know if it was connected but
I saw it right after the shot was fired.

"I thought at first someone had shot at a car because I couldn't see anyone else
around."

Another neighbour, who asked not to be named, said: "I heard the shot but I
didn't look out to see what was going on. You just don't get involved, it's not
worth it. It is quite a quiet estate so it does surprise me."

The victim was taken to hospital by paramedics for emergency treatment to the
gunshot wound.

His condition was today described as "serious but not life-threatening".

A spokesman for Merseyside police said: "Officers are working to establish the
circumstances around the shooting and the motive for it and are appealing for
anyone who witnessed the shooting or has any information that could help them to
come forward."

Officers were set to conduct house-to-house enquiries this morning as forensics
teams scoured the street for clues. CCTV will also be reviewed.

Anyone who may have witnessed the incident or has information is asked to call
Matrix on 0151 777 5699 or Crimestoppers on 0800 555 111.

LOAD-DATE: April 13, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:  SCENE: Wye Street in Everton was today cordoned off by police

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: le


               Copyright 2012 The Liverpool Daily Post & Echo Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                              234 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                   MailOnline

                       April 13, 2012 Friday 3:22 PM GMT

Four Muslims 'planned to kill Danish Crown Prince in Mumbai-style terror attack
in revenge for newspaper printing cartoons of the Prophet Mohammed'

BYLINE: ROB COOPER

LENGTH: 503 words



     ·    Terror attack allegedly would have taken place as Crown Prince visited
          newspaper to present sports awards
     ·    Three Danish men and one Swedish man are accused of terrorism and
          possessing illegal weaponry
     ·    They face 16 years behind bars and deportation if convicted


Four alleged terrorists targeted Danish Crown Prince Frederik as part of their
planned revenge attack on a newspaper that printed cartoons of the Prophet
Mohammed, a court heard today.

The suspects intended to attack the offices of Politiken in a Mumbai-style
terror attack when the crown prince was handing out awards, it was claimed.

The men were arrested on their way to the ceremony which eventually took place
at the paper as planned.

The four men - three Danish citizens and one resident of Sweden - are accused of
terrorism and illegal possession of weaponry.

Prosecutor Henrik Plaehn said the alleged terrorists were linked with Pakistan,
a point he would try to prove during the trial.

Surrounded by heavily armed police, the four defendants were led in handcuffs
into the media-packed courtroom just outside Copenhagen, the Danish capital,
where they were accused of terrorism and illegal possession of weapons.

A lawyer for one of the accused, Mounir Ben Mohamed Dhahri, said today before
the trial that his client would plead guilty to having weapons but would deny
the terrorism charge.

Three of the four accused were arrested in December 2010 while they were
allegedly on their way to carry out Mumbai-style shooting at the Jyllands-Posten
newspaper that published 12 cartoons of the prophet in 2005.

The fourth defendant, Sabhi Ben Mohamed Zalouti, left the car while it was en
route and returned to Stockholm, where he was arrested the same day as the
others.

Surrounded by heavily armed police, the four men were led in handcuffs into the
media-packed courtroom just outside the capital of Copenhagen.

The men - Dahri, Zalouti, Munir Awad and Omar Abdalla Aboelazm - could face 16
years in prison if found guilty, while prosecutors are expected to ask that the
men be deported from Denmark after serving their sentence.

Awad, Aboelazm and Zalouti are likely to plead not guilty to both the terrorism
and weapons accusations.

Swedish security police had been monitoring the group for months. After the
arrest, Danish security officials described the men as 'militant Islamists with
relations to international terror networks.'

News of the group's alleged attack plans sent a tremor through the largely
peaceful Danish society, which is attempting to lay to rest the 2005 cartoon
debacle.

The trial will last approximately two months, with a verdict expected in
mid-June.

Early in 2011, a Danish court declared a Somali man guilty of terrorism for
breaking into the home of a Danish cartoonist who had caricatured the Prophet.

Wielding an ax, the man entered Kurt Westergaard's home in the northwestern town
of Aarhus, though the cartoonist avoided injury by locking himself inside a
panic room. The Somali man was eventually sentenced to nine years in prison.

LOAD-DATE: April 13, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDM


                   Copyright 2012 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              235 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                       April 13, 2012 Friday 5:32 PM GMT

Islamic terror suspects planned to attack event hosted by Danish Crown Prince;
Four Islamic terror suspects planned to attack an event attended by Denmark's
Crown prince to kill "as many as possible" in revenge for a Danish newspaper's
publication of caricatures of the Prophet Mohammad, prosecutors alleged
yesterday.

BYLINE: By Bruno Waterfield

LENGTH: 368 words


The trial of four men - three Swedish citizens and one Swedish resident - opened
in Copenhagen with new allegations that they intended attacking a high-profile
newspaper sports award ceremony presided over by the heir to the Danish throne,
Prince Frederik.

"There are things in the investigation that suggest that this event was the
target. But it should be emphasised that the Crown Prince was not the target,"
said Henrik Plaehn, the Danish prosecutor.

The terror suspects are accused of planning to carry out indiscriminate gun
attacks in order to avenge Denmark's refusal to ban the publication satirical
cartoons mocking the founder of Islam in 2005.

Mr Plaehn also accused the four men, charged with terrorism and illegal
possession of weapons of having links with Pakistan, an allegation, he said,
would be proved during the trial which is expected to finish in mid-June.

The men - Munir Awad, Omar Abdalla Aboelazm, Mounir Ben Mohamed Dhahri and Sabhi
Ben Mohamed Zalouti - are originally from Libya, Tunisia, Morocco and Lebanon.

Three of the four defendants were arrested in December 2010 while allegedly on
their way "to kill a large number of people" in revenge for the Jyllands-Posten
newspaper's publication of 12 cartoons of the Prophet Mohammad five years
before.

The fourth man, Zalouti, left the car during the journey and returned to
Stockholm after getting cold feet over the attack. He later told Swedish that
the three men arrested had gone to carry out an attack.

A machine gun with a silencer, a revolver and 108 bullets and reams of duct tape
were among the items found in the men's possession.

The four terror suspects, aged between 29-44 at the time of their arrest, have
all pleaded not guilty through their lawyers.

Denmark's state security police (PET) has said the planned attack was modelled
on a 2008 shooting spree in Mumbai, when 10 Pakistani gunmen killed 166 people
in a three-day assault.

"It is our perception that an unknown number of people were to be killed by
shooting," Gyrithe Ulrich, another Danish prosecutor.

Security officials described the men as "militant Islamists with relations to
international terror networks" in Pakistan's Waziristan region near the Afghan
border.

LOAD-DATE: April 13, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTNS


                  Copyright 2012 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              236 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring Middle East - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                            April 14, 2012 Saturday

Syrian TV reports several killed, injured in "terrorist" attacks on 13 April

LENGTH: 374 words


Syrian state TV in its 0730 gmt news on 14 April reported a number of individual
attacks in the country said to have been carried out by "terrorist groups" the
day before, which left six dead and a number of people injured.

"Armed terrorist groups continued their killing and destruction and their
attempts to thwart the mission of [UN and Arab League envoy Kofi] Annan," the
presenter said.

She gave details of the following alleged incidents (the first was accompanied
by video of the alleged scene; the others were presenter-read over captions
summarizing each news item and listed under the heading "Terrorist crime in
Syria"):

- "Two terrorists" killed Maj Musa Tamir Al-Yusif from the armed forces in the
Al-Musafi quarter of Hamah when his car was fired on as he was driving to his
military unit (video shows bullet-ridden, blood-stained car).

- "Armed terrorist group" on the evening of 13 April assassinated warrant
officer Ali Abd-al-Hamid from the security forces in Judaydah Artuz near
Damascus as he was passing in Al-Jala Street.

- "Armed terrorist group" fired on warrant officer Mustafa Buzan in front of his
house in the town of Artuz, which left him seriously injured; his condition is
critical.

- In the Al-Sabuniyah quarter of Aleppo "one of those taking part in a small
demonstration" opened fire, which killed another person immediately.

- "Terrorist groups" threw sticks of dynamite at security forces patrols in
Hamah but caused no casualties.

- "Armed terrorist group" in Salqim near Idlib opened fire on gathering in the
city, which left citizen Basil Darkushi dead and injured others, some of whom
are in a serious condition.

- Responsible authorities thwarted "armed terrorist group's attempt" to sneak
into Syria from Turkish territory near Khirbat al-Jawz near Jisr Al-Shughur in
Idlib province.

-Ahmad al-Husayn from the security forces was "martyred" and one other and a
number of civilians were injured under fire from an "armed terrorist group" in
the Al-Sukkari district of Aleppo.

- "Armed terrorist group" attacked funeral gathering in the town of Mu Hasan in
Dayr al-Zur province and opened fire, martyring the young man Shahir Hamad
Husayn Hilal.

Source: Syrian TV satellite service, Damascus, in Arabic 0730 gmt 14 Apr 12

LOAD-DATE: April 14, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2012 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              237 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring Middle East - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                            April 14, 2012 Saturday

Syrian "armed terrorist escalating" attacks, killings - state news agency

LENGTH: 550 words


Text of report in English by state-run Syrian news agency SANA website

["Terrorist Group Assassinates Officer in Hama" - SANA Headline]

(SANA) - Provinces, (SANA)_The armed terrorist groups' escalation continued, as
Majr Musa Tamir al-Yussif was martyred at the hands of two terrorists in
al-Masafi neighbourhood in Ham'a.

SANA correspondent said that the terrorists shot al-Yussif's car while he was
heading to his military unit. In al-Sabuni'ih neighbourhood in the city, a
participant in a small gathering opened fire, killing one person, while
terrorist groups hurled dynamite on law-enforcement patrols. No casualties were
reported.

In Al-Jubb Roundabout in the city , an explosive device planted by an armed
terrorist group near the Water Establishment went off, causing material damage.

Terrorist Infiltration Attempt from Turkey to Syria Thwarted

An infiltration attempt from Turkey to Syria by an armed terrorist group was
thwarted near Khirbit Il-Juz in Jisr al-Shughur in Idlib.

SANA correspondent said that the terrorist group fled into Turkey.

Law-enforcement Member Martyred, Citizens Injured by Armed Group Gunfire in
Aleppo

A law-enforcement member was martyred and another injured when an armed
terrorist group opened fire at a law-enforcement patrol in Al-Sukkari
neighbourhood in Aleppo.

SANA correspondent said that the terrorist group opened fire at the patrol,
killing Ahmad al-Husayn and injuring Salih Shaykh Yussif and a numbers of
passers-by.

In Tal al-Zarazir neighbourhood, an explosive device planted by an armed group
exploded, causing minor damage.

In Al-Bukamal, an explosive device planted by terrorists went off, injuring two
citizens.

Terrorists Kill Citizen, Injure Others in Salkin, Idlib

An armed terrorist group opened fire on a gathering in the town of Salkin in
Idlib countryside, killing citizen Basam Darkushi, a local, and inuring others,
some of which are in critical condition.

A source in the governorate told SANA's correspondent that gunmen were spotted
in the main roads in some of the villages of Harim area, especially in the towns
of Tilada and Sarmada.

The source said that an armed terrorist group attempted to blockade the road
between Aleppo and Damascus east of Sarakib area, but the authorities managed to
clear the road swiftly without any conflict.

Another armed group hijacked a refrigerated truck near the Lattakia junction
near Sakareb, ejecting its driver and taking it to an unknown location.

Terrorists Murder Law-Enforcement Officer, Injure Another in Damascus
Countryside

An armed terrorist group on Friday evening murdered law-enforcement officer,
Warrant Officer Ali Abdlihamid, in Jdaidit Artuz in Damascus Countryside.

A source at Damascus Countryside Police Command told SANA's correspondent that
the terrorists shot Abdlihamid as he was passing through al-Jala'a Street,
killing him instantly.

The source added that another armed terrorist group opened fire on Warrant
Officer Mustafa Buzan near his house in the town of Artuz.

Buzan was severely injured and was rushed to a hospital. He is in a critical
condition.

An armed terrorist group attacked Saturday a mourning tent at Muhasan village in
Diri Azzur shooting martyr Sahir Muhamad Husayn Hilal.

M. Ismael / H. Sabbagh/ Al-Ibrahim

Source: SANA news agency website, Damascus in English 14 Apr 12

LOAD-DATE: April 14, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2012 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              238 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring Middle East - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                             April 15, 2012 Sunday

Syrian source says ''terrorists'' attacking army, civilians

LENGTH: 159 words


Damascus Syrian Satellite Channel Television in Arabic carried on 15 April
between 1231 gmt and 1236 gmt, the following screen captions:

"Official military source: Since the announcement of the military cease fire,
the violations of the armed terrorist groups have escalated, and exceeded scores
of violations; resulting in great losses in lives and properties."

"Official military source: At the same time the UN Security Council issued a
resolution to send international observers, the armed terrorist groups
hysterically escalated their violations against members of the army, law
enforcement, and civilians."

"Official military source: Out of respect for their duty in protecting the
security of citizens and the homeland, authorities will stop armed terrorist
groups from continuing their criminal aggressions, killing, and destruction
against the citizens and their properties."

Source: Syrian TV satellite service, Damascus, in Arabic 1231 gmt 15 Apr 12

LOAD-DATE: April 15, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2012 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              239 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring Middle East - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                             April 15, 2012 Sunday

Syrian military source says ''terrorists'' escalate attacks

LENGTH: 115 words


Text of report in English by state-run Syrian news agency SANA website

["Military Source: Dozens of Violations by Terrorist Groups since Halting
Military Operations" - SANA Headline]

Damascus, (SANA) - A military source on Sunday [15 April] said since the
announcement of halting the military operations last Thursday morning, attacks
of the armed terrorist groups have escalated against the civilians, the
military, the law enforcement forces checkpoints and the private and public
properties.

The source added that there have been dozens of violations by the armed groups
that have caused big losses in terms of lives and properties.

Source: SANA news agency website, Damascus in English 15 Apr 12

LOAD-DATE: April 15, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2012 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              240 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                   MailOnline

                       April 15, 2012 Sunday 1:37 PM GMT

Pakistan to host internationals for first time since terrorist attack on Sri
Lanka team

BYLINE: SPORTSMAIL REPORTER

LENGTH: 409 words


International cricket is poised to return to Pakistan after the International
Cricket Council revealed agreement has been reached for Bangladesh to contest
two matches there later this month.

No full-member international side has toured Pakistan since a terrorist attack
on a Sri Lanka team bus in March 2009 that left six police officers and a driver
dead and several players and officials injured.

The Bangladesh Cricket Board (BCB) and Pakistan Cricket Board (PCB) have agreed
a two-match itinerary, and tabled their proposal to the ICC's executive board,
which is currently meeting in Dubai.

The ICC have requested the PCB provide them with details of their security
arrangements for the proposed one-day match on April 29 and Twenty20 encounter
on April 30, both of which will be held at Lahore's Gaddafi Stadium.

'The ICC Board were informed today that the Bangladesh Cricket Board (BCB) and
Pakistan Cricket Board (PCB) have agreed the Bangladesh tour of Pakistan will
take place and will involve one One-Day International and one Twenty20
International to be held in Lahore,' read an ICC statement.

'The ICC Board, having due regard to its duty of care to match officials and
other ICC staff, requested that the PCB to immediately provide a comprehensive
security plan for consideration.

'Thereafter, the ICC's Anti Corruption and Security Unit will commission a
localised risk assessment to determine whether its officials and staff are
appropriately protected by the proposed security plan, before any further
decision is taken in relation to their appointment.'

BCB president Mustafa Kamal, who recently assessed the security situation in
Lahore, hailed the agreement between his board and the PCB as a significant
moment for the people of Pakistan.

'The public of Pakistan have been deprived of cricket and we felt that we needed
to support them,' he said. 'The reception we received when we toured Lahore and
Karachi on our security visit was overwhelming.'

PCB chairman Zaka Ashraf, who first approached Bangladesh about a possible tour
last year and has previously spoken of his belief international cricket will
return to the country in 2012, added: 'I want to thank the BCB and the
Bangladesh Government for their support for this tour.'

Since the terrorist attack three years ago, Pakistan have been required to play
designated home internationals on neutral territory, chiefly the United Arab
Emirates but also in England and New Zealand.

LOAD-DATE: April 15, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDM


                   Copyright 2012 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              241 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                       April 15, 2012 Sunday 10:01 PM GMT

Taliban rocks Kabul in wave of terror attacks;
Taliban insurgents launch multiple attacks on Afghan cities. Ben Farmer reports
from the ground in Kabul on a day of turmoil for the war-wrecked nation.

LENGTH: 873 words


When Mohammad Zakir saw several Kalashnikov-toting men leap from an
expensive-looking car in Kabul's diplomatic enclave, he assumed it was just
another Afghan powerbroker's retinue of bodyguards.

Seconds later the car mechanic was sprinting for his life after the gunmen who
had emerged from behind the 4x4 vehicle's tinted windows readied their assault
rifles, opened fire on a group of nearby police officers and headed for a nearby
construction site from which they would unleash the latest wave of terror on
Afghanistan's capital.

The gunfire which soon echoed across the city came as a stark interruption to a
balmy spring day and heralded the beginning of an audacious nationwide assault,
the largest in 11 years, which saw the Taliban declare the beginning of their
"spring offensive" and suicide attackers again penetrate the most fortified
districts of the city.

"I saw one Afghan intelligence officer shot. He just fell to the ground where he
was," Mr Zakir, 27, told The Daily Telegraph on Sunday in the chaotic aftermath
of the attacks. "I turned and ran and got away. Nine of my staff are still
trapped in the garage though and I don't know if they can get out."

The first sign of the onslaught for those Kabul residents lucky enough not to be
in the immediate line of fire was the rattle of sporadic shooting and then a
volley of explosions which rumbled through the Wazir Akbar Khan diplomatic
district at around 1.45pm.

It soon emerged that the four heavily armed men Mr Zakir had seen had stormed a
nearby half-built tower block and were using it as a base from which they could
launch a rocket and machinegun assault on the diplomatic residences and luxury
hotels below.

Cars and pedestrians quickly deserted the main thoroughfares as shots crackled
above their heads and smoke rose from buildings struck by rockets. The British
and German embassies, as well as a Nato base in the district, were all hit. As
The Daily Telegraph reached the scene, soon after the attack began, back streets
were filling with Afghan commandos and snipers.

Commandos could be seen creeping along the balconies of adjoining buildings as
they manoeuvred into position to fire on the attackers. By last night however,
many hours after the attack began, the tower was still under siege.

The attack was one of the most brazen assaults on the Afghan capital in more
than 10 years since the American-led invasion.

In total, fighters armed with machine guns, rockets and suicide vests struck
eight sites across Kabul and three provincial capitals outside the city. Some of
the attackers were dressed as women in burkas.

One target in Kabul was the Afghan parliament building where several MPs and
their bodyguards told how they were forced to join forces with police officers
to repel the attackers.

"I shot up to 400 or 500 bullets from my Kalashnikov at the attackers," Mohammad
Nahim Lalai Hamidzai, an MP from Kandahar said. "They fired two rocket-propelled
grenades at the parliament. The fight was around the parliament, the Russian
Embassy and Vice President Khalili's house."

Simultaneous assaults were meanwhile launched in three other cities in the east,
as a Taliban spokesman boasted the militants could "attack anywhere we want".

"These attacks are the beginning of the spring offensive and we had planned them
for months," Zabihullah Mujahid said.

He claimed it was revenge for the burning of Korans in February at an American
air base north of Kabul and the massacre of 17 civilians by a rogue US soldier
in Kandahar. More violence would follow.

As night fell, fighting continued in at least two places in Kabul and the
evening calls to prayer were punctuated by occasional explosions or shots.

Nineteen insurgents died in the encounters across the country and two were
captured. Fourteen police officers and nine civilians were wounded, the ministry
of interior said.

The Foreign Office in London said British embassy staff had all been accounted
for, but were locked down in the embassy grounds.

William Hague, the Foreign Secretary, said: "The Afghan National Security Forces
responded to the attacks bravely, promptly, and effectively, once again
illustrating the significant progress that has been made in ensuring that
Afghans can look after their own security.

"Britain stands with the government and people of Afghanistan as they work to
build a peaceful future."

Sunday's attack appeared to undermine Nato's assertion that it has broken the
back of the Taliban-led insurgency to the point where it is incapable of
launching a coordinated offensive.

There will also be concern that heavily-armed militants managed to penetrate the
capital's "ring of steel" and seize building sites in a repeat of tactics used
to attack the American embassy in September.

Despite the scale of Sunday's attacks, the Nato coalition tried to dismiss them
as "largely ineffective" and said they proved the Afghan forces would soon be
ready to take charge of securing the country.

Gen John Allen, commander of the coalition, said he was "enormously proud" of
how the Afghan forces had performed.

And Ryan Crocker, the American Ambassador, said: "We've seen a very professional
performance by Afghan security forces. They are able to deal with events like
this on their own."

LOAD-DATE: April 15, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTNS


                  Copyright 2012 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              242 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                            Aberdeen Evening Express

                             April 16, 2012 Monday

Dad tells of terror in Kabul as Taliban launches attack

BYLINE: Graham Mckendry

SECTION: NEWS; OTHER; Others; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 396 words


A NORTH-EAST man today told of his fight for survival at the epicentre of a
deadly Taliban attack on Kabul.

Kemnay man Steve Campbell spoke exclusively to the Evening Express as he was
pinned down by gunfire on the roof of his office block in the Afghan capital.

The dad-of-one said: "Taliban in police uniforms have taken post in high
buildings and are shooting rocket propelled grenades.

"A group of 15 suicide bombers walked into a building and started shooting
civilians, then as the forces showed up they blew up a truck at the front door -
four very well co-ordinated attacks in Kabul alone, but it has happened all
over.

"There is gun fighting and a suicide bomber outside our office area, and two
dead bad guys in the street.

"We have been confined to our roof bunker for the past two hours. Special forces
are firing tracer rounds to track for targeting."

Later, the Aberdeenshire man was taken by armed convoy to the relative safety of
a guarded compound where he stays.

He added: "We were apparently in the epicentre of the attacks and to some extent
still are. I have now lost count of the number of explosions.

"I'm not sure how many were suicide bombers, bombs or special forces raids -
it's hard to tell at times, but it is all around us.

"Our compound here is better than the office as there are less high level points
for the bad guys to take advantage of.

"We have a Welshman in charge of our security - a great guy, in complete
control, and we have an English guy as his number two, and a number of Afghan
security officers. The guys have been up all night, patrolling the compound."

The IT consultant spent most of his life in Kemnay before moving to Deeside and
latterly to the US - where his wife Aleah and five-year-old son Roan were also
taking shelter in tornado-hit Oklahoma.

The 18-hour Taliban attack on the Afghan capital ended earlier today when
insurgents in two buildings were overcome by heavy gunfire from Afghan-led
forces and air assaults from US-led coalition helicopters.

Kabul awoke to a second day of explosions and heavy gunfire as troops worked to
defeat the militants.

Authorities reported one police officer and at least 17 militants were killed in
Kabul and three eastern cities.

The Taliban began assaults on embassies, government buildings and Nato bases at
1.30pm yesterday in response to Nato claims that the uprising was weak.

smcdonald@ajl.co.uk

LOAD-DATE: April 16, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PINNED DOWN: IT consultant Steve Campbell is in Kabul.
DAMAGE: Smoke rises from a hotel after it was hit by a rocket-propelled grenade
in Kabul city.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: EE


                      Copyright 2012 Aberdeen Journals Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                              243 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                    BBC Monitoring Asia Pacific - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                             April 16, 2012 Monday

Japan condemns "terrorist" attacks in Afghanistan

LENGTH: 164 words


Text of report by Japanese news agency Kyodo

Tokyo, 16 April - Japan "resolutely condemns" a recent series of terrorist
attacks in Afghanistan targeting important facilities, including the Japanese
Embassy in Kabul, Chief Cabinet Secretary Osamu Fujimura said Monday [16 April].

"The terrorism is absolutely unacceptable and our country resolutely condemns
it," Fujimura, the top government's spokesman, said at a press conference.

Fujimura said the government will make efforts to protect Japanese nationals.

At least four of the rocket-propelled grenades landed in the embassy as of last
night, damaging part of its exterior walls and windows, Fujimura said, adding
there are no reports of Japanese having been injured in the terrorism.

According to the Japanese Embassy in Kabul, a rocket bomb landed in the site
again on Monday morning, but embassy staff, who evacuated in the ambassador's
residence, was not injured.

Source: Kyodo News Service website, Tokyo, in Japanese 0447gmt 16 Apr 12

LOAD-DATE: April 16, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2012 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              244 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                       BBC Monitoring Europe - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                             April 16, 2012 Monday

Turkey condemns terrorist attacks in Afghanistan

LENGTH: 222 words


Text of report in English by Turkish semi-official news agency Anatolia

ANKARA (AA) -Terror acts will reach nowhere and Turkey will continue its
solidarity with the friendly and brotherly people of Afghanistan, the Turkish
Ministry of Foreign Affairs (MFA) said Monday.

In a written statement released Monday, the Turkish MFA stressed that the
attacks that took place against the Afghan Parliament, official buildings,
several embassies and facilities of the International Security Assistance Force
(ISAF) on Sunday were learned with sadness.

We wish God's mercy upon those killed and offer our condolences to the relatives
of the deceased. We also wish speedy recovery to those injured in the attacks.
We want to underline that terror acts will reach nowhere and Turkey will always
continue solidarity with the friendly and brotherly people of Afghanistan, the
MFA also said.

The Taleban on Sunday launched a series of attacks in the Afghan capital of
Kabul, targeting several NATO facilities, the national parliament and embassies.

At least one police officer and 17 militants died in the attacks.

NATO's combat mission is expected to end in Afghanistan in 2014. The US-led
international force is presently working to transfer the security responsibility
to the Afghans.

Source: Anatolia news agency, Ankara, in English 1430 gmt 16 Apr 12

LOAD-DATE: April 16, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2012 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              245 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                       BBC Monitoring Europe - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                             April 16, 2012 Monday

Bosnian police arrest 17-year-old boy suspected of plotting terrorist attack

LENGTH: 459 words


Text of report by Bosnian Serb privately-owned centrist newspaper Nezavisne
novine on 14 April

Kozarac - The 17-year-old Kozarac-born "M.T.", a pupil of the Agricultural
School in Prijedor, made bombs and explosives in his room. The police also
discovered shocking sketches showing how to plant bombs under cars, as well as
sketches of two as yet unidentified shopping malls.

This teenager (his name is known to the editorial office) was arrested on
Thursday [ 12 April], after having brought to school a bullet, a bomb, and an
explosive device he had made himself. The shocked pupils immediately called the
police, and the police arrested him and soon afterward searched his house.
Nezavisne Novine has learned that the police officers were shocked to find
materials, sketches, and drawings worthy of a terrorist.

The police found instructions how to make explosives from manure, sketches of
two unidentified shopping malls, and drawings showing how to plant a bomb under
a car. The police also found handmade swords.

We have learned that "M.T." had boasted to his friends about his "handicraft."
He told the police that he had downloaded sketches and "recipes" to make bombs
"out of sheer curiosity."

This underage boy does not have a criminal record, and the police never had
problems with him. On Friday we found no one at the address where this boy
lives. "M.T." lives with his mother and half-brother, and his father works in
Germany.

His fellow citizens and people who know him since childhood were not surprised
by these discoveries. They said that they knew what he had been doing in the
solitude of his room. They told us that they had noticed his sociopathic
behaviour ever since he was a child.

"When he was four years old he drew maimed human bodies; on one side he would
draw a head, on another side the body, and yet on another side the arms. He
coloured all of this in red. Even then his parents were told to watch out and
look for help because this was abnormal behaviour," an acquaintance of the
family who wished to remain anonymous told us.

A woman who lives in Kozarac said that "M.T." was withdrawn and would not greet
anyone on the street.

"I often see him walking alone on the street. He is withdrawn. When he passes me
by, it is as if I do not exist although I know his entire family," this woman
said.

She said that she had known from before that he liked to make explosives and had
always been interested in chemicals.

"He barely has a 'D' in chemistry in school, but his obsession is to make his
own bombs," she said.

We have learned from the police that the investigation against "M.T." will
include social workers and psychologists, in order to help the boy.

Source: Nezavisne novine, Banja Luka, in Bosnian/Croatian/Serbian 14 Apr 12 pp
2,3

LOAD-DATE: April 16, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2012 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              246 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                               Belfast Telegraph

                             April 16, 2012 Monday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

Terror in Afghanistan as Taliban attacks capital

BYLINE: KIM SENGUPTA

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 22

LENGTH: 512 words


CITIES and towns across Afghanistan came under sustained attack and parts of the
capital were under siege yesterday in a co-ordinated offensive by insurgents.

Multiple explosions and heavy machine-gun fire echoed through Kabul as bombers
and gunmen targeted areas where the parliament, foreign embassies and Nato''s
headquarters are based.

The raids, which resulted in President Hamid Karzai being forced to go into
"lockdown" in his residence, were the latest outbreak of violence which has
continued for weeks, leaving dozens dead and injured and raised questions about
the West''s exit strategy from the long and bloody war. While firefights
continued in Kabul following the first blasts in the early afternoon, there were
suicide strikes at a US military base in Jalalabad as well as Gardez in the east
and at Logar province near the capital, with militants attempting to storm the
offices of the army, police and the intelligence service, the National
Directorate of Security.

The British embassy in the Wazir Akbar Khan district of Kabul was one of those
targeted, with two rockets hitting a guard tower, usually manned by Gurkha
guards, and a rocket-propelled grenade smacking into a house used by diplomats.

A group of foreign analysts, working for the UK-based company Adam Smith
International, were trapped inside a Ministry of Commerce building which
partially collapsed after being hit by heavy rounds.

By late afternoon the Afghan government claimed that 14 insurgents had been
killed while 14 police officers and nine civilians were injured.

The Taliban claimed responsibility for the attacks with spokesman Zabiullah
Mujahid saying that it was the start of the spring offensive.

But last night Afghan and Western officials were saying that there were
indications that it was the handiwork of the Haqqani network, which carried out
the last major assault on diplomatic missions in Kabul in September, lasting for
almost 20 hours, and which is believed to have ties to the Pakistani military
and secret police. The attacks in Afghanistan came a day after the Taliban freed
400 prisoners in Pakistan''s North Waziristan area.

A police chief in the area insisted that such an operation could only have been
mounted with official collusion.

The scene in Kabul through the afternoon yesterday was one of chaos and fear
with members of the public, including mothers and children, running through
gunfire.

background THE current round of Afghan strife began in February with the burning
of Korans and a US serviceman killing 17 villagers in March.

The fear of 'an enemy within' for Nato forces rose with a number of lethal
incidents of Afghan policemen and soldiers turning their guns on their supposed
allies.

In a Kabul attack in February, an Interior Ministry employee shot dead two US
advisers, leading to the withdrawal of Western personnel from government
departments.

Soon afterwards a dozen suicide vests were found in the ministry, primed for
detonation.

More than 15 security personnel were arrested.

INSIDE History of war laid out on streets of Baghdad Comment, Page 29

LOAD-DATE: April 16, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: An Afghan man examines the remains of a car after three suicide bombers
were killed before they reached Jalalabad airport

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: BTM


                Copyright 2012 Belfast Telegraph Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              247 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                               Belfast Telegraph

                             April 16, 2012 Monday
                                   Edition 5;
                                National Edition

New terror group behind attacks on Kabul

BYLINE: PA REPORTER

SECTION: FEATURES; Pg. 22

LENGTH: 495 words


A MILITANT arrested over the attacks on Kabul and three other Afghan cities has
confessed that the 18-hour assault was carried out by the Haqqani network, a
lethal group of fighters with ties to the Taliban and al-Qaida, a top security
official said today.

Thirty-six insurgents were killed during the attacks which also claimed the
lives of eight policemen and three civilians and proved that militants can still
penetrate Afghan security after 10 years of war, said Interior Minister
Besmillah Mohammadi. It was the most widespread attack in the Afghan capital
since an assault on the US Embassy and Nato headquarters last September - an
assault also blamed on the Haqqani network, which is based in Pakistan and
commands the loyalties of an estimated 10,000 fighters.

The violence showed that the Taliban and their allies are far from beaten and
underlined the security challenge facing government forces as US and Nato forces
draw down. The majority of international combat troops are scheduled to leave by
the end of 2014. Today, Kabul residents awoke to a second day of loud explosions
and the crackle of gunfire but the attacks on the Afghan capital ended when
insurgents who had holed up in two buildings overnight were overcome by heavy
gunfire from Afghan-led forces and pre-dawn air assaults from US-led coalition
helicopters.

As darkness turned to dawn, rocket-propelled grenades were fired one after
another into a building in the centre of the city where insurgents began their
attack yesterday.

The building, which is under construction, overlooks the presidential palace,
Western embassies and government ministries.

The US, German and British embassies and some coalition and Afghan government
buildings took direct and indirect fire, according to Lieutenant Colonel Jimmie
Cummings, a spokesman for the US-led coalition.

Shortly before 3am, coalition helicopters began flying over the structure. At
4.23am, a religious cleric began calling Muslim worshippers to prayer over a
loudspeaker in the area. During the next 15 minutes, troops launched five
rocket-propelled grenades into the building. More followed.

The loud booms from the blasts momentarily silenced chirping birds. Red and
white flashes could be seen inside the various floors of the multi-storey
building. By about 6.30am, the blasts and shooting had stopped.

Apart from Kabul, the eastern capitals of Paktia, Logar and Nangarhar provinces
also came under attack yesterday as suicide bombers tried to storm a Nato base,
an airport and police installations "The terrorists tried to harm the process of
transferring security to the Afghan forces, but they are not able to do it,"
Interior Minister Mr Mohammadi told reporters in Kabul. "They want to create
fear among the people."

"One terrorist who was arrested in Nangarhar province confessed, saying 'It was
the Haqqani network that launched these attacks''," Mr Mohammadi said.

INSIDE q History of war laid out on streets of Baghdad Comment, Page 29

LOAD-DATE: April 16, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: BTE


                Copyright 2012 Belfast Telegraph Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              248 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                       April 16, 2012 Monday 4:35 PM GMT

Taliban hits Kabul with terror attacks

BYLINE: By Ben Farmer in Kabul

LENGTH: 494 words


WHEN Mohammad Zakir saw several Kalashnikov-toting men leap from an
expensive-looking car in Kabul's diplomatic enclave, he assumed it was just
another Afghan powerbroker's retinue of bodyguards.

Seconds later, the car mechanic was sprinting for his life after the gunmen who
had emerged from behind the 4x4 vehicle's tinted windows readied their assault
rifles, opened fire on police officers and headed for a nearby construction site
from which they would unleash the latest wave of terror on Afghanistan's
capital.

The gunfire, which soon echoed across the city, came as a stark interruption to
a balmy spring day and heralded the beginning of an audacious nationwide
assault, the largest in 11 years, which saw the Taliban declare the beginning of
their "spring offensive", and suicide attackers again penetrate the city's most
fortified districts.

"I saw one Afghan intelligence officer shot. He just fell to the ground where he
was," Mr Zakir, 27, told The Daily Telegraph in the chaotic aftermath of the
attacks. "I turned and ran and got away. Nine of my staff are still trapped in
the garage though and I don't know if they can get out."

The first sign of the onslaught for those Kabul residents lucky enough not to be
in the immediate line of fire was the rattle of sporadic shooting and then a
volley of explosions that rumbled through the Wazir Akbar Khan diplomatic
district at around 1.45pm on Sunday.

It soon emerged that the four heavily armed men Mr Zakir had seen had stormed a
nearby half-built tower block and were using it as a base from which to launch a
rocket and machine-gun assault on the diplomatic residences and luxury hotels
below.

Pedestrians quickly left the main thoroughfares as shots crackled above their
heads and smoke rose from buildings struck by rockets. The British and German
embassies and a Nato base were all hit. As The Daily Telegraph reached the
scene, soon after the attack began, back streets were filling with Afghan
commandos and snipers. However, by Sunday night, the tower was still under
siege.

The attack was one of the most brazen assaults on the Afghan capital in more
than 10 years since the American-led invasion. In total, fighters armed with
machine guns, rockets and suicide vests struck eight sites across Kabul and
three provincial capitals outside the city. Some of the attackers were dressed
as women in burkas.

One target in Kabul was the Afghan parliament building where several MPs and
their bodyguards told how they were forced to join forces with police officers
to repel the attackers. "I shot up to 400 or 500 bullets from my Kalashnikov at
the attackers," Mohammad Nahim Lalai Hamidzai, an MP from Kandahar, said. "They
fired two rocket-propelled grenades at the parliament."

Zabihullah Mujahid, a Taliban spokesman, said the attacks were revenge for the
accidental burning of Korans in February at an American airbase north of Kabul,
and the massacre of 17 civilians by a rogue US soldier in Kandahar.

LOAD-DATE: April 17, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTNS


                  Copyright 2012 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              249 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                       April 16, 2012 Monday 10:10 AM GMT

Anders Behring Breivik: Norway terrorist attacks in pictures;
Anders Behring Breivik, the right-wing fanatic who confessed to killing 77
people in a bomb-and-shooting massacre on the Island of Utoya and in Oslo went
on trial in Norway's capital defiantly rejecting the authority of the court.

LENGTH: 38 words


Anders Behring Breivik, the right-wing fanatic who confessed to killing 77
people in a bomb-and-shooting massacre on the Island of Utoya and in Oslo went
on trial in Norway's capital defiantly rejecting the authority of the court.

LOAD-DATE: April 17, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTNS


                  Copyright 2012 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              250 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring South Asia - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                             April 17, 2012 Tuesday

India conveys "profound concerns" over Afghan terror attacks - PTI

LENGTH: 231 words


Text of report by Indian news agency PTI

Abu Dhabi, 16 April: Condemning the outbreak of violence in Afghanistan, India
on Monday conveyed its "profound concerns" to President Hamed Karzai and hoped
for restoration of normalcy in that war-torn country.

"India believes that Afghanistan will have to sought out its issues amongst
themselves in a civilised manner without resorting to mindless violence and it
is India's open desire that normalcy will be restored in Kabul and Afghanistan.

"And Afghanistan will try to move ahead and develop itself as a flourishing
nation," India's External Affairs Minister S M Krishna said here.

In a message, which was uploaded on the 'YouTube', Krishna said: "I condemn the
outbreak of violence in Afghanistan.... and I would like to convey India's
profound concerns to President Karzai and people of Afghanistan."

Taleban militants launched a wave of simultaneous suicide and gun attacks Sunday
in Afghanistan targeting the diplomatic area, NATO bases, and the Parliament at
seven locations in Kabul and three other eastern cities in which 51 people were
killed including 36 insurgents, eight Afghan security guards and three
civilians.

Afghan forces finally regained control today over parts of the capital Kabul,
killing all the Taleban militants, who had unleashed 18 hours of brazen attack.

Source: PTI news agency, New Delhi, in English 1458gmt 16 Apr 12

LOAD-DATE: April 17, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2012 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              251 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring South Asia - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                             April 17, 2012 Tuesday

Indian defence minister asks army to be vigilant post Afghan terror attacks

LENGTH: 512 words


Text of report published by Indian newspaper The Hindu website on 17 April

New Delhi: A day after the deadly multiple-attacks by the Taleban in
Afghanistan, Defence Minister A.K. Antony on Monday [16 April] flagged the
situation in the region and asked the top brass of the Army to be on the vigil.

Inaugurating the annual Army Commanders' conference here, Mr. Antony described
the situation in the AfPak region as a "continuing cause for concern." He asked
the Army to take all appropriate steps keeping in view the developments in
Afghanistan.

He reiterated India's commitment to provide support and assistance to help
Afghanistan evolve as a stable country that was strengthened by pluralism and
was free from external interference.

"Balancing the imperatives of engaging globally with other powers and
maintaining autonomy in decision-making is one of the most important challenges
of our times," a Defence Ministry spokesman said

Referring to the sharp increase in defence spending by China to modernise it
armed forces, the Minister said India would continue to bolster infrastructure
and strengthen its capabilities along the Sino-Indian border. "However our
efforts are focused on safeguarding our security interests and are not dictated
by what other nations are doing. Several of the proposals of the Army are under
implementation. Some others are expected to be cleared in the days ahead. We
will provide all the support to modernise and enhance our defence capabilities
to successfully meet any challenge," he said.

Besides laying stress on developing border roads in Jammu and Kashmir and the
North-East region for swifter transportation of men and material, India has
activated advanced landing grounds in these parts to enable quick movement by
transport aircraft. In addition, the government has sanctioned a plan to raise
two mountain divisions. Efforts are on to procure ultra-light field guns that
can be carried across mountains by helicopters.

Describing the situation in Jammu and Kashmir as stable, Mr. Antony said this
was a direct consequence of the untiring efforts of the security forces. He,
however, said the peace process was extremely fragile and the armed forces
needed to operate with maximum restraint and control without dropping their
guard. The statement assumes significance as there is a clamour once again to
remove the controversial Armed Forces Special Powers Act.

On modernisation plans for the armed forces, he said the government's endeavour
was to move forward in a systematic manner. Procedures would be improved and
fine-tuned whenever and wherever necessary to ensure that the Army met its
modernisation goals within an acceptable timeframe.

Chief of the Army Staff General V.K. Singh said regional situation needed to be
monitored closely and the force should be operationally prepared at all times.

While observing that the situation in Jammu and Kashmir and the North-East
region had improved, he underscored the need to maintain utmost vigil during the
summer months ahead.

Source: The Hindu website, Chennai, in English 17 Apr 12

LOAD-DATE: April 17, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2012 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              252 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                          Future News - Media Planner

                             April 17, 2012 Tuesday

4th anniversary of Mumbai terror attacks

SECTION: LIFESTYLE; Anniversaries; Travel & Tourism

LENGTH: 134 words


4th anniversary of terrorist attacks on Mumbai which killed 174 including nine
gunmen and injured nearly 300 when militants armed with grenades and assault
rifles targeted six sites across the city incl the five-star Taj Palace and
Oberoi Hotels, the main CST train station, and Leopolds cafe. Sieges at the
hotels were finally brought to a conclusion on 29 November with 10 militants
identified, but only one of them - Pakistani national Mohammad Ajmal Qasab -
captured alive. He was sentenced to death in May 2010 but he remains in
detention as his appeal is pending in the Supreme Court. At least 28 foreigners
were killed incl one Briton and nationals from the U.S., Australia, Canada,
France, Germany, Israel, Italy, Japan, Singapore and Thailand

Event Start Date: 2012-11-26

Event End Date: 2012-11-26

LOAD-DATE: April 17, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                             Copyright 2012 Precise
                              All Rights Reserved

                              253 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                              The Herald (Glasgow)

                             April 17, 2012 Tuesday
                                   1 Edition

Westminster agrees to payouts for victims of overseas terror attacks

BYLINE: MICHAEL SETTLE UK POLITICAL EDITOR

SECTION: HS - NEWS; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 308 words


VICTIMS of overseas terrorist attacks, such as the Bali bombings of 2002 and the
Mumbai attacks of 2008, will be eligible for compensation for their injuries,
the UK Government signalled.

Crispin Blunt, a justice minister at Westminster, said payments to victims of
atrocities overseas were to be limited to those  who have a clear and sufficient
connection to the UK .

The scheme will only apply to six specific attacks since the start of 2002 and
compensation   the scale of which is unknown   will be paid to those who
continue to have an ongoing disability as a direct result of the injuries they
sustained .

Together with Bali and Mumbai, the relevant attacks are those at Sharm el Sheikh
in Egypt in 2005, the bombing in Kusadasi, Turkey, in the same year, and those
in 2006 at Dahab, Egypt, and Marmaris, Turkey.

Mr Blunt explained:  It is proportionate and necessary for the scheme to focus
limited resources on those who have a clear and sufficient connection to the UK.

Therefore, payments will be made to British, EU and EEA victims with a minimum
of three years  residence in the UK immediately prior to a terrorist attack that
is designated for the purposes of the ex gratia scheme.

Last night, Gregg McClymont, the Labour MP for Cumbernauld, who has been
campaigning to secure compensation for victims of overseas terrorism, told The
Herald the announcement was an important step forward for British victims of
overseas terrorism.

He said:  It s now two years since cross-party agreement was reached on a
scheme. Labour will continue to press the Conservative-led Government to roll
out the scheme as fast as possible. The delay to date has not been fair to the
innocent victims or their families.

Mr McClymont, Shadow Pensions Minister, stressed the need to bring forward the
scheme to cover those affected by any future terrorist attacks.

LOAD-DATE: April 17, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: CAMPAIGN: Cumbernauld MP Gregg McClymont.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: GH


                      Copyright 2012 Newsquest Media Group
                              All Rights Reserved

                              254 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                       April 17, 2012 Tuesday 5:35 PM GMT

Compensation for victims of terrorist attacks abroad;
Britons injured in terrorist attacks abroad are now eligible for Government
compensation.

BYLINE: By Leah Hyslop

LENGTH: 354 words


From this week, British expats or travellers who have been seriously injured in
overseas terrorist atrocities will be able to claim up to £500,000 in
compensation.

Previously, people injured in terrorist attacks have only qualified for
compensation from the Criminal Injuries Compensation Scheme if the incident
happened in the UK.

"We should support and compensate those people who sadly have been injured in
overseas terrorist atrocities," said justice minister Crispin Blunt in a
statement.

"While we will never be able to put right the harm victims of terrorism suffer,
we hope this scheme will go some way towards helping them rebuild their lives."

The compensation will be available to people who were affected by six specific
incidents after January 2002: namely, the 2002 bombings in Bali, Indonesia; the
2005 minibus bombing in Kusadasi, Turkey; the 2005 Sharm el Sheikh terror
attacks; the 2006 bombings in Dahab, Egypt; the 2006 bomb attacks in Marmaris,
Turkey; and the 2008 attacks in Mumbai, India.

Britons injured in other incidents, however, can still apply to the foreign
secretary to be considered.

The scheme will also apply only to British, EU and EEA nationals who lived in
the UK for at least three years before the attack in question and only if they
have an "ongoing disability" as a result.

Clive Garner, head of travel law at Irwin Mitchell - which has represented
dozens of victims of terrorist attacks - said that he welcomed the change, but
that the £500,000 cap would prove inadequate for many seriously injured victims'
needs.

"While today's [announcement] is certainly a positive step and one that we and
our clients welcome, the maximum available payment is simply not enough to
adequately fund all of the care needs, therapies and other expenses that victims
with the most serious injuries will incur over their lifetimes," he said.

Plans to provide compensation for victims of terrorism abroad have been around
for years, but the change was only confirmed in January.

The Justice Ministry said it expected to introduce a scheme for victims of any
future terrorist attacks later in the year.

LOAD-DATE: April 18, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTNS


                  Copyright 2012 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              255 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                      Western Morning News (Plymouth, UK)

                             April 17, 2012 Tuesday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

Terror group 'carried out attacks on Afghan cities'

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 238 words


A militant arrested over the attacks on Kabul and three other Afghan cities has
confessed that the 18-hour assault was carried out by the Haqqani network, a
lethal group of fighters with ties to the Taliban and al Qaida, a top security
official said.

Thirty-six insurgents were killed during the attacks which also claimed the
lives of eight policemen and three civilians and proved that militants can still
penetrate Afghan security after ten years of war, said Interior Minister
Besmillah Mohammadi. It was the most widespread attack in the Afghan capital
since an assault on the US Embassy and Nato headquarters last September - an
assault also blamed on the Haqqani network, which is based in Pakistan and
commands the loyalties of an estimated 10,000 fighters. The violence showed that
the Taliban and their allies are far from beaten and underlined the security
challenge facing government forces as US and Nato forces draw down. The majority
of international combat troops are scheduled to leave by the end of 2014.

Yesterday, Kabul residents awoke to a second day of loud explosions and the
crackle of gunfire but the attacks on the capital ended when insurgents who had
holed up in two buildings overnight were overcome by heavy gunfire from
Afghanled forces and pre-dawn air assaults from US-led coalition helicopters. By
about 6.30am, the blasts and shooting had stopped and the fighting had come to
an end by about 8am.

LOAD-DATE: April 17, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: WMN


                 Copyright 2012 Western Morning News (Plymouth)
                              All Rights Reserved

                              256 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring Middle East - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                            April 18, 2012 Wednesday

Saudi-based pan-Islamic OIC condemns Afghanistan terrorist attacks

LENGTH: 209 words


Text of report in English by Saudi state-owned official news agency SPA website

[SPA Headline: "OIC Secretary General condemns terrorist attacks in
Afghanistan"]

Jedda, Jumada I 26, 1433, Apr 18, 2012, SPA - The Secretary General of the
Organization of the Islamic Cooperation (OIC), Professor Ekmeleddin Ihsanoglu
has condemned the series of terrorist attacks in the Afghan capital Kabul and
provinces of Logar, Paktia and Nangarhar on 15 April 2012, targeting government
buildings and diplomatic premises, in which dozens of civilians and Afghan
security forces were killed or injured.

While expressing his shock over these bloody attacks, the Secretary General
emphasized that Afghanistan needs more than at any other time to stabilize the
security situation in the run-up to the transitional period. He reiterated the
imperative of refraining from violence which hinders the smooth implementation
of the national reconciliation, reintegration and reconstruction programmes for
the benefit of the Afghan people.

The Secretary General further reaffirmed the OIC support for all efforts
deployed by the Afghan Government and people to restore security, peace and
stability to their country

Source: SPA news agency website, Riyadh, in English 0000 gmt 18 Apr 12

LOAD-DATE: April 18, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2012 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              257 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                                  Racing Post

                            April 18, 2012 Wednesday
                                 First Edition

TEENAGE DRUNKS ATTACK FOOTBALL CHIEF;
Terror as gang pelts victim with stones

BYLINE: PAUL BEHAN; CHRIS CLEMENTS

SECTION: NEWS; FRONT PAGE; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 490 words


A GANG of rowdy teens attacked a football chief after he confronted them about
mindless vandalism and boozy antics on the park.

A committee member at Johnstone Burgh needed medical attention when he was
pelted him with stones at Keanie Park.

His chin burst open after being struck by one of the missiles. The man had told
the drunken gang - which featured boys and girls Turn to Page Five

From Page One aged around 14 - to beat it as they went on the rampage over the
club's pitch.

The attack happened shortly after Burgh's 1-0 Central District Second Division
win over Wishaw on Saturday.

Police have now appealed for witnesses after the row.

Keanie Park has long been a target for teen boozers and vandals, but Burgh
insiders told the Paisley Daily Express this week that the problem is getting
worse.

One source, who did not want to be named, said: "These youths are in at the park
every single night and the damage they are causing is horrendous.

"Some of them are drugged-up and some of them are just drunk. These vandals are
only about 14 or 15 years of age.

"They've thrown bricks and bottles onto the park; they''re ripped stuff on the
enclosure and caused damage to the main pavilion.

"One of our committee members chased them on Saturday and they threw a stone
which hit him on the chin, and he needed medical attention.

"It''s getting beyond a joke.

"We simply cannot understand why this is happening to us all the time."

Cash-strapped Burgh have already forked out several thousand pounds in recent
years to pay for the damage to the park.

Another club member - also asking to remain anonymous - said that officials are
at their wits' end with yobs using the park as a drinking den.

He said: "It is really getting out of hand. Something must be done about this
before someone is seriously hurt.

"That almost happened with the member having his chin burst by a rock.

"We have had lots of problems, including finding knives lying about the ground.

"People are now very apprehensive to confront these kids who are causing all the
hassle.

"On Easter Monday, we made reports of vandalism at Keanie Park when some
concrete had been kicked away.

"Then last Friday, they had ripped off some corrugated metal from the back of
the main enclosure.

"I don't know why they are targeting Johnstone Burgh, but questions have to be
asked about how they are getting a hold of alcohol.

"Do their parents know what they are up to? "I would also like to see more
police patrols at the ground to get rid of these neds."

Inspector Willie Paterson, of Johnstone Police Office, condemned the teens'
actions, saying they were "completely unacceptable".

"Throwing stones at people could result in someone being seriously injured," he
said.

"I would urge anyone with information or who witnessed the attack on Saturday to
contact Johnstone Police as soon as possible on 01505 404000."

Terror as drunk youths attack football chief

LOAD-DATE: April 18, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:  SCENE: Keanie Park

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: rp


                           Copyright 2012 MGN Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              258 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                            Manchester Evening News

                            April 19, 2012 Thursday

Woman is terrorised by sex attacker in services car park

BYLINE: WFnode

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 220 words


KATIE STOREY

A WOMAN was sexually assaulted inside her car by a man who took pictures of her
on his mobile phone.

The woman was approached by the man in the car park of Birch Services off the
M62.

He asked if he could take photographs of her, but when she refused he took a
series of pictures on his mobile.

Police say that the man then held the car door open while the victim tried to
close it.

He then reached inside, put the camera below the steering wheel and took photos
of her knees and thighs before walking away in the direction of the services.

The offender is described as a white man, 50-years-old, about 5ft 9in, of
average build, he was clean shaven and wore a black woollen hat.

DC Janice Cruttwell said it was the second such incident to take place at the
services in recent months.

She added: This man had the audacity to approach a woman at a busy service
station in broad daylight.

The woman was petrified as he approached her and forced her car door open while
he took photographs.

We believe that a similar incident happened a few months ago and I would appeal
for the victim to come forward and report it to the police.

The incident took place at 7.30am on Thursday April 5.

Anyone with information is asked to call the CID on 0161 856 4644.

Or call the independent charity Crimestoppers anonymously on 0800 555 111.

LOAD-DATE: April 19, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: The woman was petrified as he approached her and forced her car door
open while he took photographs

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2012 Manchester Evening News
                              All Rights Reserved

                              259 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                       BBC Monitoring Europe - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                             April 20, 2012 Friday

Turkish embassy in Greece attacked by supporters of "terrorist" group - agency

LENGTH: 97 words


Text of report in English by Turkish semi-official news agency Anatolia

["Supporters of terrorist organization attack Turkish embassy in Greece" - AA
headline]

Athens, 19 April: Supporters of the terrorist organization attacked the Turkish
embassy in Athens on Thursday.

A group of supporters of the terrorist organization gathered in front of the
embassy building, and chanted slogans backing the terrorist organization.

The group hurled eggs and several other materials on the building.

Greek police detained 16 people.

Source: Anatolia news agency, Ankara, in English 1534 gmt 19 Apr 12

LOAD-DATE: April 20, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2012 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              260 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                   MailOnline

                       April 20, 2012 Friday 4:16 PM GMT

'We'll open the gates of evil': Al Qaeda militants warn of terror attacks in UK
if Abu Qatada is deported back to Jordan

BYLINE: JACK DOYLE

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 1069 words



     ·    SITE Intelligence Group, which monitors online activity from terrorist
          groups, said al-Shabaab had issued a warning on militant forums


Militants have threatened to plunge Britain into 'disaster' with a wave of
terror attacks if hate cleric Abu Qatada is deported to Jordan.

In a statement posted to a militant web forum, Al Qaeda warned Britain that his
expulsion would open 'the gates of evil that will harm (Britain) and its
subjects.'

SITE Intelligence Group, which monitors online activity from terrorist groups,
said that Somalia's al-Qaeda-linked militant group al-Shabab also issued a
warning on militant forums Monday.

'The British public is also forewarned that it will be the British government,
as a result of its imprudence, that shall be liable for any disaster that
befalls them, or their national interests,' the statement said, according to
SITE.

Yesterday it emerged that Qatada could be back on the streets within weeks as
the row over botched efforts to deport him continued to rage.

An immigration judge said he would reconsider bail if the fanatic's removal from
Britain was not 'imminent'.

The ruling was a further blow to embattled Home Secretary Theresa May as she
continued to insist there had been no blunder by her officials over Qatada's
case.

Facing down her critics in the Commons, Mrs May accepted she would take 'full
responsibility' for any mistakes. She said: 'This is not a question of what
officials have done. I take full responsibility.'

Backbench Tory MPs demanded Britain's withdrawal from the European Court of
Human Rights.

In an exchange with Mrs May yesterday, Tory MP Charles Walker said: 'You must
not delay in getting this scumbag and his murderous mates on a plane out of this
country. And in so doing would you send a metaphorical two fingers to the ECHR?'

Shadow Home Secretary Yvette Cooper taunted Mrs May for 'partying with X Factor
judges' while the Government's case collapsed after she was pictured at a glitzy
celebrity party attended by Tulisa Contostavlos, as well as Kelly Brook and
Lorraine Kelly

Miss Cooper also warned the 'farce had serious consequences' and raised the
prospect of Qatada suing the Government for wrongful arrest.

Legal experts appeared to side against Mrs May's assertion that the true
deadline for Qatada's lawyers to lodge an appeal in the case to Strasbourg was
Monday night.

On Tuesday Mrs May ordered his arrest and told the Commons the time period for a
further legal claim had passed. But Strasbourg officials last night repeated
their belief that the true deadline was midnight on Tuesday night and the case
was lodged 'just in time'.

David Cameron exposed his own powerlessness over the affair, saying: 'I
sometimes wish I could put him on a plane and take him to Jordan myself.'

The prospect of the radical cleric walking the streets again only a short time
after he was put back in Belmarsh high-security prison will horrify the public.

After his arrest on Tuesday he appeared before the Special Immigration Appeals
Commission, a special terror court, and was remanded to the jail.

But in a ruling released yesterday, judge Mr Justice Mitting said: 'If it is
obvious after two or three weeks have elapsed that deportation is not
imminent... then I will reconsider bail along the basis of a more leisurely
timetable than that necessarily required for a full-blown appeal to SIAC.'

Justice Secretary Ken Clarke said he could not see what the 'big deal was' over
the apparent blunder.

Called to the Commons to explain the affair, Mrs May said: 'The Government is
clear that Qatada has no right to refer the case to the Grand Chamber of the
ECHR since the three-month deadline to do so lapsed at midnight on Monday.'

She was given strong support from the Tory backbenches, but MPs also insisted
she should defy the European Court of Human Rights anyway.

Tory Mark Spencer said the saga risked painting the UK as a 'safe haven' for
terrorists, while Sir Peter Tapsell said it was time the UK 'withdrew its legal
processes' from the European Court.

Bill Cash, chairman of the European Scrutiny Committee, said: 'You have tried
your best, there is no question about that. But unfortunately it is not working.

'The root cause of this is the question of what is the rule of law, whose rule
of law and who interprets it?

'It should be decided in this House. We should withdraw from the European
Convention, we should repeal the Human Rights Act and we should get the matter
straight because the people of this country demand it.'

Labour seized on comments from an ECHR spokesman which confirmed its view that
the deadline was Tuesday.

A panel of five judges of the court will make a final ruling on admissibility,
but that could be several months away.

WHAT A DIFFERENCE A DAY MAKES FOR MAY

What a difference a day makes. On Tuesday Theresa May was cheered in the Commons
after ordering the arrest of fanatic Abu Qatada.

His removal from the country appeared, if not imminent, then at least on the
near horizon.

But by Wednesday the Home Office timetable was in ruins after his legal team
launched a further appeal to the Strasbourg court.

Mrs May, and her team of highly paid lawyers and silks, are insistent that the
deadline for an appeal passed on Monday night and the appeal, submitted at 11pm
on Tuesday, was late and should be rejected.

Court officials appeared to side with Qatada's lawyers, and a final ruling on
the issue will be made by a panel of Strasbourg judges. So who is right - and
were the Government's legal team, as Keith Vaz put it, outwitted by a firm of
North London legal aid lawyers?

At first glance, the European Convention on Human Rights seems unambiguous, and
backs up Mrs May's case.

Article 43 states: 'Within a period of three months from the date of the
judgment of the Chamber, any party to the case may, in exceptional cases,
request that the case be referred to the Grand Chamber.'

So if a written appeal has not been received within that time, the original
judgment becomes final.

So far so straightforward? Sadly no.

The question that remains is when does the clock start ticking? Is it, as the
Government maintains, on the day the judgment is handed down, or is it the
following day?

Mrs May must now wait anxiously for the final decision to be made by a panel of
the court, and that could be months away, further delaying efforts to kick out
Qatada and bolstering his case for bail.

LOAD-DATE: April 21, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDM


                   Copyright 2012 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              261 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                       April 20, 2012 Friday 10:14 PM GMT

Terrorists threaten to attack UK if Qatada is deported;
Al Qaeda militants have warned the UK it will be attacked if it deports
firebrand cleric Abu Qatada.

BYLINE: By Tom Whitehead Security Editor

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 577 words


Al-Shabaab, the Somali based group linked to the terror network, said there
would be "disaster" for the British public if Qatada is sent back to Jordan.

Last week al Qaeda itself warned it would "open the gates of evil" if the
Government continues with the deportation.

The warning came as it emerged Theresa May could learn next month whether the
Home Office blundered over the appeal deadline for Qatada.

A panel of European judges is expected to sit in May to decide whether the
cleric's application was in time - and whether he has a case for an appeal,
sources said.

Liberal Democrats said the deadline fiasco, which has allowed Qatada to further
delay his deportation, had been an "Olympic-standard screw up"

And Labour piled the pressure on the Home Secretary to explain what assurances
were sought from Strasbourg that the Home Office was working to the correct time
frame.

Downing Street, however, said the Prime Minister had "full confidence" in Mrs
May and any attempt by Qatada to win bail in light of the chaos would be
"vigorously" challenged.

In a statement posted on militant forums, Al- Shabaab said Qatada's planned
deportation to Jordan, where he faces terror charges, would be a "travesty of
justice."

It added: "The British public is also forewarned that it will be the British
government, as a result of its imprudence, that shall be liable for any disaster
that befalls them, or their national interests."

Last week, a similar statement issued by al Qaeda said it would "open the gates
of evil" on Britain if it deports Qatada to Jordan.

"We warn the British government against extraditing Sheikh Abu Qatada to
Jordan", it added and called on it to "act with reason and wisdom ... or it will
regret it."

Mrs May has faced a torrid week after it emerged a potential mix up over
deadlines allowed Qatada's lawyers to lodge a last-ditch appeal to the European
Court of Human Rights.

He is challenging his deportation to Jordan and the appeal bid raises the
prospect that he could now be granted bail again.

The Home Office insisted the window for appealing to Europe closed at midnight
on Monday and Qatada was rearrested on Tuesday morning and told his deportation
was being resumed.

However, his lawyers argued the deadline was 24 hours later and submitted an
appeal late on Tuesday several hours after Mrs May had been cheered in the House
of Commons for announcing Qatada's arrest.

Back before MPs on Thursday, Mrs May was asked 14 times whether the Home Office
had clarified the deadline and whether officials had alerted her to a possible
ambiguity over timings.

Continuing the pressure yesterday, Yvette Cooper, the shadow home secretary,
said: "Theresa May needs to answer the serious questions she ducked yesterday.

"The Home Secretary needs to come clean and explain how this fiasco happened and
how she is taking responsibility to put it right."

Tim Farron, president of the Liberal Democrats, said: "I take the view that
there's an Olympic-standard screw-up somewhere here, whether it's with the
European Court, or its Theresa May or with her officials."

He added: "What I'm absolutely certain of is that Abu Qatada should be deported.
He should be on a plane as soon as possible."

Asked if the Prime Minister still had full confidence in Mrs May, a Downing
Street spokeswoman replied: "Yes."

She added: "It is our firm intention to see him deported.

"If he applies for bail, we will oppose it vigorously," the spokeswoman said.

LOAD-DATE: April 21, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTNS


                  Copyright 2012 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              262 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                       April 20, 2012 Friday 11:37 AM GMT

Al Qaeda militants warn of terror attack in Britain if Abu Qatada is deported;
Militant group al Shabaab has warned that Britain will face a terror attack if
it deports Islamic cleric Abu Qatada.

BYLINE: Tom Whitehead and James Kirkup

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 814 words


The Al Qaeda militants warned of a "disaster" for Britain if the Government
attempts to send Qatada back to Jordan.

SITE Intelligence Group, which monitors online activity from terrorist groups,
said al-Shabaab had issued a warning on militant forums.

"The British public is also forewarned that it will be the British government,
as a result of its imprudence, that shall be liable for any disaster that
befalls them, or their national interests," the statement said, according to
SITE.

It comes a week after Al-Qaeda threatened to attack Britain if it decides to
extradite Qatada.

In a statement signed by Al-Qaeda's general command and published on jihadist
forums, the terror network said Abu Qatada's extradition would "open the gates
of evil" on "Britain and its citizens everywhere."

"We warn the British government against extraditing Sheikh Abu Qatada to
Jordan," where he faces terror charges, said the statement, which called on
London to "act with reason and wisdom ... or it will regret it."

The warnings come as it emerged Qatada could be released back into society
within days because of the confusion over his deportation appeal to Europe.

Does it matter that Theresa May appears to have got the deadline date wrong?

Senior immigration judge suggested Mr Justice Mitting indicated that he would
reconsider the preacher's detention if his deportation was "not imminent".

Yesterday Theresa May, the Home Secretary, was faced with mounting evidence that
her officials had made an error over a deadline for Qatada, whose real name is
Omar Othman, to appeal to the European Court of Human Rights, which may have
allowed him to prolong his stay in Britain for up to a year.

Any prospect of a lengthy legal process would greatly increase the chances of
the cleric once described as Osama bin Laden's right-hand man in Europe being
granted bail, the judge suggested.

Mrs May insists she was free to arrest Qatada and restart deportation
proceedings on Tuesday because a deadline to appeal to the Grand Chamber of the
Strasbourg court passed at midnight on Monday.

But Qatada's lawyers argue that the deadline was 24 hours later, and submitted a
last-ditch appeal on Tuesday night.

Legal experts and officials yesterday suggested that Home Office officials were
wrong and that Qatada made his appeal within the correct time frame. This could
mean that the Home Secretary acted illegally by restarting deportation
proceedings prematurely.

Under pressure from Labour, Mrs May repeatedly refused to say whether her
officials had asked the court when the deadline was. One MP demanded to know why
Qatada's lawyers had been able to "outwit the very expensive silks of the Home
Office".

Yvette Cooper, the shadow home secretary, warned there could be "serious
consequences" if Mrs May's interpretation of the deadline was wrong.

She accused her of rushing the cleric's arrest and opening up the Government to
the possibility of being sued. "On Tuesday the Home Secretary told us the
deportation of Abu Qatada was under way, on Wednesday it stopped," Miss Cooper
said. "On Tuesday she told us there would be no appeal to the Grand Chamber, on
Wednesday an appeal was under way.

"Yesterday the Home Office said the appeal deadline was Monday night but the
European Court officials said it was Tuesday night. When the Home Secretary is
accused of not knowing what day of the week it is, then confusion and chaos have
turned into farce. This farce has serious consequences - additional delays, a
greater risk Abu Qatada will be put out on bail and a risk he will sue the
Government."

The dispute intensified calls from some Tory backbenchers to ignore Europe and
go ahead with the deportation. Charles Walker, MP for Broxbourne, Herts, told
Mrs May that ministers "must not delay in getting this scumbag on a plane out of
this country".

Mark Reckless, a lawyer and MP for Rochester and Strood, said the Home Office
was "institutionally incompetent" and likened the situation to the television
comedy Yes, Minister. "The problem essentially is however much officials mess
up, they aren't held to account, and very often they are promoted," he said.

Lawyers pointed out that a 40-year-old convention in the Council of Europe, the
court's umbrella body, indicated that any time limit measured in months should
run to the same day of the month the judgment was made.

Carl Gardner, a former government lawyer, highlighted rules that dictate when an
appeal can be made from the domestic courts to Strasbourg. Case law from the
European court states that the clock runs from the day following a judgment.

The court blocked Qatada's deportation to Jordan on Jan 17. Under either set of
guidance, the window to appeal would not have closed before Tuesday April 17.

In a further headache for the Home Secretary, advice from the Council of Europe
yesterday said the appeal was lodged "just in time".

LOAD-DATE: April 21, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTNS


                  Copyright 2012 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              263 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                 thetimes.co.uk

                      April 21, 2012 Saturday 12:01 AM GMT

Britain 'faces terror attack if it deports Abu Qatada'

BYLINE: Frances Gibb

SECTION: UK NEWS

LENGTH: 525 words


The militant group al-Shabaab has warned that Britain will face a terror attack
if Theresa May deports the radical Muslim cleric Abu Qatada.

The warning from the al-Qaeda militant group comes as the Government promised to
"vigorously" resist any application for Abu Qatada to be released on bail from a
top security prison.

SITE Intelligence Group, which monitors online activity from terrorist groups,
said that al-Shabaab had issued a warning on militant forums.

"The British public is also forewarned that it will be the British Government,
as a result of its imprudence, that shall be liable for any disaster that
befalls them, or their national interests," the statement said, according to
SITE.

The widow of one 7/7 London suicide bombers is suspected of being a key member
of al-Shabaab. Samantha Lewthwaite, 28, from Aylesbury, Buckinghamshire, is
being hunted by Scotland Yard and the CIA after Kenyan police discovered an
alleged Christmas bombing plot.

Security assessments suggest that about 50 Britons, predominantly men in their
late teens and early 20s, have gone to fight with al-Shabaab in Somalia since
the rise of Islamist guerrilla movements there in 2006.

Labour increased the pressure on the Home Secretary after it emerged that an
immigration judge said he would reconsider bail within two to three weeks if Abu
Qatada's deportation was not imminent.

Yvette Cooper, the Shadow Home Secretary, said: "The idea that Abu Qatada could
be back on the streets of London within weeks, if not days, as a result of the
Home Secretary's decision is shocking. Theresa May has told us herself how
dangerous she believes this man to be, yet now her own shambles could be what
gets him out of jail."

The release on bail of Abu Qatada would be a further humiliation for Mrs May
after the embarrassing row over his appeal deadline to the European Court of
Human Rights.

Yesterday the Government's top law officer claimed that European judges were
already responding to pressure for reform by ruling in favour of Britain.
Dominic Grieve, QC, the Attorney-General, cited the case of Abu Hamza as one
where European judges had upheld the Government's case, as part of a wider
trend.

He was speaking after ministers from 47 European countries adopted a declaration
in Brighton outlining measures to reform the court. Mr Grieve rejected the views
of Sir Nicolas Bratza, President of the court, who said the changes would make
little difference. "My view is that it will make a difference," Mr Grieve said.

The 47 member states had agreed a "clear view of the direction of travel" for
the implementation of reforms. The aim, Mr Grieve said, had been achieved:
namely to "nudge" the court in a certain direction; help it to tackle its
backlog; help countries with implementation of the Convention; bring about
better co-operation and "steer the court away from excessive micro-management".

The Declaration now goes to Strasbourg to be ratified next month.

A new emphasis on the discretion that the court grants to member states to
decide how to implement human rights laws is to be inserted into the preamble to
the European Convention on Human Rights.

LOAD-DATE: April 21, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBTTO


                     Copyright 2012 News International Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                              264 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring Middle East - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                             April 22, 2012 Sunday

Syrian information minister says ''terrorists escalating attacks''

LENGTH: 409 words


Text of report in English by state-run Syrian news agency SANA website

["Information Minister: Some Media Used Terrorists as Reporters" - SANA
Headline]

Damascus (SANA) - Information Minister Dr Adnan Mahmud said that objective
media, part of which is the Indian, managed to break the one-sided approach of
the Western media in dealing with the events in Syrian according to their own
agendas, calling for expanding cooperation with the Indian media for conveying
the true image to the world public opinion.

During his meeting with a group of Indian pressmen, academics and writers, Dr
Mahmud reviewed the role of the American and Western media in targeting Syria
through concocting a fabricated image that distorts facts. He added that some
media have set a precedent through using terrorists who committed atrocities as
reporters in some areas, filming the massacres they committed and attributing it
to law-enforcement members.

Minister Mahmud belied claims that foreign media was denied access to Syria,
indicating that more than 400 Arab and foreign media outlets entered Syria since
the beginning of events, in addition to giving visas to more than 75 media
outlets since Syria agreed to the plan of the UN envoy to Syria, Kofi Annan, on
25 March.

Answering the journalists' questions, the information minister affirmed that
Syria is committed to Annan's plan, indicating that the terrorist groups have
escalated their terrorist acts against civilians and law-enforcement members
which reflects the nature of these groups who take their cue from countries such
as Turkey, Qatar, Saudi Arabia , Western countries and the USA.

"These countries and the terrorist groups seek to abort Annan's plan that they
declared dead, which proves that they want to thwart any political solution
devised by the Syrians," Mahmud added.

In reply to a question on the displaced Syrians in Turkey, minister Mahmud said
that Syria has called upon the Syrian citizens who were forced to leave their
homes due to the armed terrorist groups to return and pledged to help them get
back to their normal lives.

"It became well known to all how the Turkish government is trying to exploit a
humanitarian case for political purposes, so as to set up buffer zones and safe
corridors as a prelude to foreign interference as part of the scheme targeting
Syria, of which Erdogan's government is a tool," said minister Mahmoud.

Source: SANA news agency website, Damascus in English 22 Apr 12

LOAD-DATE: April 22, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2012 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              265 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                    BBC Monitoring Asia Pacific - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                             April 23, 2012 Monday

South Korean expert says North's threat could mean possible terrorist attack

LENGTH: 764 words


Text of report in English by South Korean news agency Yonhap

Seoul, 23 April: North Korea threatened Monday [23 April] to launch special
military actions against key South Korean targets, further escalating tensions
on the Korean Peninsula following the North's botched rocket launch.

"The special actions of our revolutionary armed forces will start soon to meet
the reckless challenge of the group of traitors," the North's military supreme
command said in an English-language notice carried by the country's official
Korean Central News Agency.

"Once the above-said special actions kick off, they will reduce all the rat-like
groups and the bases for provocation to ashes in three or four minutes, in much
shorter time, by unprecedented peculiar means and methods of our own style."

The notice and other North Korean statements described South Korean President
Lee Myung-bak as a "rat", making personal attacks against the conservative
president, who has pursued a hard-line policy toward Pyongyang.

The latest militaristic warning came in response to Lee's recent comments that
Pyongyang claimed have hurt the dignity of the North's new leader Kim Jong-un.

Last week, Lee urged Kim to give up the collective farm system and privatize
state-owned agricultural land to help enrich the North and its residents. Lee
also called on the young North Korean leader to pay greater attention to the
human rights and defector issues.

Kim vowed to uphold the dying wish of his late father, long-time leader Kim
Jong-il, who pursued nuclear and missile programs as well as a songun
[military-first] policy. The North has said the world should not expect any
change from it.

The notice said the North's targets include Lee and conservative South Korean
media, though it did not elaborate on details of the North's possible attacks.

Baek Seung-joo, a senior analyst at the state-run Korea Institute of Defence
Analyses, said the North's unusually strong rhetoric could mean a possible
terrorist attack by the North on the South.

North Korea has a track record of terrorist attacks against South Korea,
including the 1987 bombing of a South Korean airliner near Myanmar [Burma] that
killed all 115 passengers aboard.

In 1968, 31 North Korean commandos infiltrated Seoul in a failed assassination
attempt on then President Pak Cho'ng-hu'i [Park Chung-hee]. North Korean
defector Lee Han-yong, a relative of Kim Jong-il's mistress, was killed in 1997
in what South Korea believed was an assassination by North Korean agents.

South Korea is within striking distance of North Korea's missiles. Seoul, the
South Korean capital city of more than 10 million people, is also within range
of North Korea's conventional artillery.

Also Monday, the North's Foreign Ministry warned in a separate report carried by
the KCNA that North Koreans "are now eagerly waiting for the issue of an order
so that they may mercilessly punish the traitor."

"In case something happens on the peninsula now, the responsibility will
entirely rest with traitor Lee," the North's statement warned, without
elaborating.

The North has also recently vowed to stage a "sacred war" against South Korea
and "blow up" Seoul for insulting its dignity over the rocket launch and the
celebrations marking the centennial of the 15 April birth of the country's late
founder Kim Il-sung, the grandfather of current leader Kim Jong-un.

Lee said the North's failed rocket launch is estimated to have cost Pyongyang
about 850m dollars, the equivalent of buying 2.5 million tons of corn for North
Koreans.

South Korea expressed deep concern that the North's threats and accusations have
worsened inter-Korean ties and heightened tensions. "We urge North Korea to
immediately stop this practice," said Unification Ministry spokesman Kim
Hyung-suk.

The North has made similar military threats against the South over the past
several months, although no actual attack has occurred.

South Korea has repeatedly vowed to powerfully retaliate against North Korea in
the event of any provocation as a revenge for the North's two provocations in
2010 that killed 50 South Koreans, mostly soldiers.

"We are fully ready to completely retaliate against any North Korean
provocation," a South Korean military official said, noting South Korea's
military closely monitors the North Korean military's movements.

Meanwhile, North Korean defectors and South Korean activists opened the annual
North Korea Freedom Week in Seoul on Sunday as part of their efforts to
highlight the dismal human rights record in the North.

Source: Yonhap news agency, Seoul, in English 0921 gmt 23 Apr 12

LOAD-DATE: April 23, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2012 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              266 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring South Asia - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                            April 25, 2012 Wednesday

Afghan paper says perpetrators of terror attacks must be punished appropriately

LENGTH: 802 words


Text of editorial entitled "Implementation of justice on terrorists" published
by Afghan independent secular daily newspaper Hasht-e Sobh on 22 April

The National Directorate of Security yesterday reported neutralizing a terrible
terrorist plot. One of the spokesmen for the National Directorate of Security,
Shafiqollah Taheri, said the directorate arrested five suicide terrorists and
seized 5 tonnes of explosives. According to the National Directorate of
Security, the arrested terrorists intended to carry out terrorist attacks in
crowded parts of Kabul [city]. The National Directorate of Security also said
that four of the arrested figures are Pakistani nationals.

Prior to this, the National Directorate of Security reported arresting a group
of three individuals who intended to assassinate the Second Vice-President,
Karim Khalili. The efforts of intelligence bodies for the detection and
neutralization of terrorist plots by terrorist organizations in Pakistan deserve
praise and appreciation. However, this is not the first time individuals have
been arrested for plotting and conducting terrorist operations. The National
Directorate of Security reports the arrest of terrorist groups in Kabul and
other provinces almost every month. However, none of those accused of terrorist
activities have been put on open trial so far.

The former chief of National Directorate of Security, Amrollah Saleh, mentioned
this issue in the Afghan parliament. Addressing the people's representatives, he
said that suspects of terror activities were arrested as a result of day and
night-long efforts of servicemen of the National Directorate of Security and
other intelligence bodies, but they were never put on trial and no legal action
was taken against them. Mr Saleh went beyond this and said in some instances it
was observed that the arrested suspects of terror activities were released by
courts and government officials.

In fact, the government's action against those arrested for plotting terrorist
operations has not been serious and lawful. High-ranking government officials,
the president himself and probably the judiciary dealt with those arrested for
terrorism and terror activities politically rather than treating them legally.
It has been observed several times that suspects of terror activities were
released from prison under the title of building trust and goodwill. In some
instances, it has been stated that President Karzai has accepted the demand of
elders for the release of some of those accused. Later on, it was observed that
those released from prison re-joined the Taleban and other militants.

If individuals accused of terror activities and those arrested on this charge
are treated legally and seriously, the creditability of the judiciary will be
enhanced, the security forces' morale will increase and Afghans will be ensured
of justice. Individuals detained along with masses of evidence on attempts to
conduct deadly terrorist attacks are arrested by the security forces and the
security forces put their lives at risk for arresting them, but when they are
not prosecuted and are treated politically instead of getting legal and serious
treatment, the manner will undoubtedly weaken the morale and incentive of the
Afghan security forces.

Some members of the High Peace Council and other bodies say detainees should be
released for building trust and goodwill; however, the experience shows the
release of prisoners only resulted in an increase in terror activities. The
Taleban will not be ready for peace and negotiation in the face of the release
of their prisoners and those accused of terror activities. The country has not
achieved anything with the release of Taleban prisoners and those accused of
terror activities.

Thus, it is for the high ranking officials and judiciary to refer those accused
of terror activities and militancy to courts. The Afghan courts, according to
their duty, should treat those accused of terror activities seriously and
lawfully. This will lead to an enhancement of the creditability of the judiciary
in the common mind and the international community as well as it will cause a
strengthening of the morale and incentive of the Afghan security forces. When
Afghans see those accused of terror activities and terror plots are prosecuted,
and justice is implemented, their support for the government, security forces
and judiciary increases. This issue will show that legal and serious action
against those accused of terror activities and members of terrorist
organizations instead of their release will result in the utmost interests of
the government, Afghans and the country. High ranking government officials
should take this issue seriously.

Source: Hasht-e Sobh, Kabul, Mazar-e Sharif, Konduz, Herat, Kandahar, Jalalabad
in Dari 22 Apr 12

LOAD-DATE: April 25, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2012 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              267 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                 BBC Monitoring Former Soviet Union - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                            April 25, 2012 Wednesday

Russian police detain Turkish national accused of terrorist attacks in Turkey

LENGTH: 139 words


Excerpt from report by corporate-owned Russian news agency Interfax

Moscow, 25 April: The Russian law-enforcement agencies have detained in Nizhniy
Novgorod a Turkish national accused in his country of organizing explosions and
participating in terrorist activities.

"Turkish citizen (?Sachly Hakan), born in 1971, wanted by the law-enforcement
agencies of that country for participating in terrorist activities and
organizing explosions and arson attacks, has been detained in Nizhny Novgorod,"
the press service of Interpol's National Central Bureau at the Russian
Federation Interior Ministry has told Interfax.

[Passage omitted: the detainee is accused of planting an explosive device in
Turkey in January 1996 and calling for a violent overthrow of the government.]

Source: Interfax news agency, Moscow, in Russian 1311 gmt 25 Apr 12

LOAD-DATE: April 25, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2012 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              268 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                          Future News - Media Planner

                            April 25, 2012 Wednesday

2nd anniversary of Pakistani national convicted over Mumbai terror attacks

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 95 words


2nd anniversary of Pakistani national Mohammed Ajmal Kasab convicted of murder
and waging war against India for his role in the November 2008 terror attacks on
Mumbai, which killed 166 over three days. During the atrocity 10 young men
stormed two luxury hotels, a Jewish centre and the main CST train station, where
21-year-old Kasab was photographed carrying an assault rifle. Nine gunmen were
killed and India has blamed the Pakistan-based militant group, Lashkar-e-Taiba.
Kasab was sentenced to death three days later

Event Start Date: 2012-05-03

Event End Date: 2012-05-03

LOAD-DATE: April 25, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                             Copyright 2012 Precise
                              All Rights Reserved

                              269 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                     April 25, 2012 Wednesday 11:22 AM GMT

Five arrested for suspected terror planning;
Five men have been arrested on suspicion of planning a terror attack in the UK
just months after their homes were raided by the police.

BYLINE: By Tom Whitehead Victoria Ward and Murray Wardrop

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 429 words


The men, aged 21, 23, 24, 30 and 35, were detained at five separate houses in
Luton yesterday morning on suspicion of the commission, preparation or
instigation of acts of terrorism.

It was unclear last night whether they are suspected of planning an attack in
the future or whether it was one that had been discussed but never materialised.

Scotland Yard also refused to comment on suggestions some of the men may have
attended terror training camps.

Police first searched some of the homes in September last year. No arrests were
made at that time but property was seized including computer equipment.

It is understood that it was a result of analysis of material recovered that led
to the arrests yesterday.

The addresses are in an area of Luton already known for its Islamic population.

The Stockholm Christmas suicide bomber, Taimur Abdulwahab al-Abdaly had been
living in the area before he blew himself up and injured two shoppers in Sweden
in December 2010.

One of the men convicted of the 2004 fertiliser bomb plot to use on a target in
southern England also lived in the area as did a man named in court at the time
as an alleged facilitator and accused of helping 7/7 bomber Mohammad Sidique
Khan attend a terror training camp in Pakistan.

It is understood there is no link between the latest arrests and any previous
plot or investigation.

Imran Shehzad, 34, said officers had arrested his 23-year-old brother Umar at
the address which they share.

"This problem started in September when the police came to our property. They
seized a lot of property.

"He was never arrested, cautioned or any explanation given.

"They seized a whole lot of property belonging to my family and children. Things
like laptops and kids project books," he said.

Yesterday, residents living near one of the homes targeted were sent leaflets by
local police warning them that a neighbour had been arrested in connection with
a "serious crime".

All five men were being questioned in London last night.

A Met spokesman said: "Officers from the counter-terrorism command have today,
Tuesday April 24, arrested five men on suspicion of the commission, preparation
or instigation of acts of terrorism.

"All five were arrested at separate residential addresses in Luton. They have
been taken to a central London police station where they remain in custody.

"The arrests were a part of a pre-planned, intelligence-led operation.

"Search warrants were also executed under the Terrorism Act 2000 at five
residential addresses in Luton in connection with this inquiry and searches are
ongoing."

LOAD-DATE: April 26, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTNS


                  Copyright 2012 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              270 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                              Liverpool Daily Echo

                            April 26, 2012 Thursday
                                  1ST Edition

TERROR ATTACK AT TAKEAWAY;
Victim forces armed pair out of shop

BYLINE: TOM DUFFY

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 282 words


A CUSTOMER waiting for food in a Chinese takeaway was threatened by men armed
with a samurai sword and a gun.

The two armed men are believed to have spotted the 34-year-old victim through
the window of Tony Wongs on Kennelwood Avenue in Kirkby on Tuesday night.

The victim slammed the shop door shut as the thugs tried to force their way in.

A female member of staff then lowered the automated shutters at the front of the
takeaway which forced the two thugs to flee.

Staff served the customer, who was not hurt, while they waited for police to
arrive at the shop.

The owner of the business said: "My staff said that one of the men had a sword
and the second had revolver-type gun.

"During the struggle one the girls behind the counter brought the shutters down
which stopped the two men from getting in.

"The customer ate his portion of chicken wings inside the shop while they waited
about 20 minutes for the police to arrive.

"I have been here for 20 years and this is the first spot of trouble although
this incident was nothing to do with the shop."

Police confirmed that no-one was hurt in the incident and no money was taken.

Officers from Merseyside Police's anti-guns Matrix unit converged on the
takeaway following the incident, sealing off the area.

A spokesman said: "At around 10pm officers were called to the takeaway on
Kennelwood Avenue following reports that a man was being threatened with a
samurai sword and what is believed to be a firearm.

"An investigation has been launched by Matrix."

Superintendent Mark Harrison said: "I would like to reassure members of the
public that we take reports of this kind extremely seriously."

? Call police on 0151 777 5699.

LOAD-DATE: April 26, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:  SCENE: Tony Wongs takeaway in Kirkby, far right

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: le


               Copyright 2012 The Liverpool Daily Post & Echo Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                              271 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                              Liverpool Daily Echo

                            April 26, 2012 Thursday
                                  2ND Edition

Terror attack at Chinese takeaway

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 236 words


A CUSTOMER waiting for food in a Chinese takeaway was threatened by men armed
with a samurai sword and a gun.

The two armed men are believed to have spotted the 34-year-old victim through
the window of Tony Wongs on Kennelwood Avenue in Kirkby around 10pm on Tuesday
night.

The victim slammed the shop door shut as the thugs tried to force their way in.

A female member of staff then lowered the automated shutters at the front of the
takeaway which forced the two thugs to flee.

Staff served the customer, who was not hurt, while they waited for police to
arrive at the shop.

The owner of the business said: "My staff said that one of the men had a sword
and the second had a revolver-type gun.

"The customer ate his portion of chicken wings inside the shop while they waited
about 20 minutes for the police to arrive.

"I have been here for 20 years and this is the first spot of trouble although
this incident was nothing to do with the shop."

Police confirmed no-one was hurt in the incident and no money was taken.

Officers from Merseyside Police's anti-guns Matrix unit converged on the
takeaway following the incident.

A spokesman said: "At around 10pm officers were called to the takeaway on
Kennelwood Avenue following reports that a man was being threatened with a
samurai sword and what is believed to be a firearm.

"An investigation has been launched by Matrix." ? Call police on 0151-777 5699.

LOAD-DATE: April 26, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: le


               Copyright 2012 The Liverpool Daily Post & Echo Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                              272 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                      April 26, 2012 Thursday 11:58 AM GMT

Police granted more time to quiz terror suspects;
Counter-terrorism officers have been granted further time to question five men
arrested on suspicion of planning a terrorist attack in Britain, a Scotland Yard
spokesman said today.

BYLINE: By Victoria Ward

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 189 words


The men, aged 21, 23, 24, 30 and 35, were detained at five separate houses in
Luton on Tuesday on suspicion of the commission, preparation or instigation of
acts of terrorism.

The dawn raids followed police searches at some of the homes last September,
when computer equipment was seized.

A Scotland Yard spokesman said they had been granted a week to question the men
after a warrant of further detention was issued.

"All five were arrested at separate residential addresses in Luton. They have
been taken to a central London police station where they remain in custody," he
said.

"On April 25 a warrant of further detention was issued, to expire seven days
after their arrest."

It is unclear whether the men are suspected of planning a future attack or
whether one had been discussed but never materialised.

Scotland Yard refused to comment on suggestions some had attended terrorist
training camps.

No arrests were made in September but it is understood that analysis of material
recovered led to this week's arrests which were a part of a "pre-planned,
intelligence-led" operation by the Metropolitan Police counter-terrorism
command.

LOAD-DATE: April 27, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTNS


                  Copyright 2012 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              273 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                       BBC Monitoring Africa - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                             April 27, 2012 Friday

Nigerian paper says "not deterred" by terror attack

LENGTH: 361 words


Text of unattributed report entitled "We're not deterred, says The Sun
newspaper" published by Nigerian newspaper This Day website on 27 April

The management of The Sun Publishing Limited, publishers of The Sun Newspapers,
Thursday [26 April] said it would not be deterred by the bomb explosion which
rocked its North West Zonal headquarters in Kaduna, Kaduna State [northern
Nigeria].

In a statement signed by managing director/editor-in-chief of the company, Mr
Tony Onyima, said: "Despite this seeming set back, The Sun Publishing Limited,
remains undeterred and refuses to be intimidated in its quest for a better and
safer Nigeria. We will continue to report without fear or favour and with utmost
sense of responsibility and patriotism."

Onyima, who confirmed that "no staff of The Sun died or suffered any physical
injury", however said: "The police and other security agencies have since moved
in to investigate the matter. The security operatives have also taken custody of
the driver and suspected suicide bomber."

The statement read: "At about 11.30 a.m. [local time] today, Thursday, 26 April
2012 an explosion occurred at the premises of our North West Zonal headquarters
in Kaduna, Kaduna State. The property located along Kontagora Road equally
houses the state offices of two other media organizations, namely Thisday
newspaper and The Moment newspaper."

The explosion occurred when a suspected suicide bomber, driving a gold coloured
Honda Academy, with registration number AL 306 MKA rammed into the building.

However, the bomb-laden vehicle failed to explode on impact with the building.
But when the driver of the car jumped out and began to shout that there were
bombs inside the vehicle and that they would explode any moment, angry residents
and onlookers seized him and forced him to begin to dispose of the bombs. In the
process one of them exploded killing three people and injuring several others.

The angry youths then turned on the driver, and would have lynched him, but for
the timely intervention of the policemen who had by then been invited to the
scene by our North West bureau chief."

Source: This Day website, Lagos, in English 27 Apr 12

LOAD-DATE: April 27, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2012 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              274 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring Middle East - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                             April 27, 2012 Friday

Syrian information minister says armed "terrorist" groups escalating attacks

LENGTH: 332 words


Text of report in English by state-run Syrian news agency SANA website

["Information Minister: Armed Terrorist Groups Committed more than 1,300
Violations of the Ceasefire" - SANA Headline]

Damascus - Information Minister Dr Adnan Mahmud said that the armed terrorist
groups have committed more than 1,300 violations of the ceasefire which came
into effect on 12 April.

In a statement on Thursday [26 April], Mahmud said that the armed terrorist
groups have escalated the crimes of killing, massacres, explosions, kidnappings
and assassinations against civilians and law-enforcement members.

Minister Mahmud indicated that the number of documented violations and attacks
by armed groups reached 1,300 since the ceasefire came into effect, stressing
that Syria has met its obligations according to the plan of the UN Envoy to
Syria, Kofi Annan, adding that Annan was informed of these violations through
messages sent by the Syrian foreign minister.

Mahmud said that ending violence requires objective and transparent monitoring
and observing the sources of the armed terrorist groups' violations, with
reserving the right to respond to any violation or attack.

"We are expecting Annan to exert genuine efforts with tangible results on the
ground towards the terrorist groups and the countries providing them with
funding and arms, and to obtain commitments from these countries to stop arming,
training and funding them," said Mahmud.

The Information Minister said that countries such as Turkey, Qatar and Saudi
Arabia are allies of terrorism against Syria and complicit in the crimes against
the Syrian citizens, adding that they are legally, ethically and politically
responsible for the crimes committed by the terrorist groups.

Dr Mahmud said that the Information Ministry granted visas to 98 Arab and
international media outlets since 25 March 2012, adding that 400 media outlets
have entered Syria since the beginning of the crisis.

Source: SANA news agency website, Damascus in English 27 Apr 12

LOAD-DATE: April 27, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2012 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              275 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                            Birmingham Evening Mail

                             April 27, 2012 Friday
                                 First Edition

COPS GET MACHINE GUNS AND SNIPER TEAM;
Police rearmed for Mumbai-style terror attacks

BYLINE: Nick McCarthy

SECTION: NEWS; FRONT PAGE; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 76 words


WEST Midlands Police are rearming with fully automatic assault rifles, to tackle
heavily-armed terror attacks.

The new Heckler & Koch G36 rifles, capable of firing 750 high velocity rounds a
minute have been bought because it is believed that the current singleshot
carbines don't offer enough firepower.

Officers are also receiving military issue sniper rifles, and will command teams
of SAS in the event of an attack, the Police Authority has been told.

LOAD-DATE: April 27, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: em


               Copyright 2012 Midland Independent Newspapers plc
                              All Rights Reserved

                              276 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring Middle East - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                            April 28, 2012 Saturday

Lebanon's Hezbollah condemns terror attack on new party's offices

LENGTH: 174 words


Text of report in English by Lebanese Hezbollah Al-Manar TV website on 27 April

[Unattributed report: "Hezbollah: Baqaata Blast Part of Sedition Targeting
Lebanon"]

Hezbollah condemned Friday [27 April] the explosion targeting the newly
established Arab Tawhid Party office in the Chouf village of Baqaata, Mount
Lebanon.

"The explosion is part of the civil strife projects targeting Lebanon's internal
scene, which is moving from zone to another," Hezbollah said in a statement.

"The incident was suspicious with respect to its targets and timing," the
statement read.

Hezbollah also voiced its support to the "brothers at the Arab Tawhid Party" in
confronting this attack.

"Every one is required to pay attention and vigilance to avoid falling into the
trap of sedition targeting them and the country as a whole," Hezbollah
concluded.

Earlier on Friday, an explosive device containing 600 grams of dynamite
detonated near the Arab Tawhid Party's bureau in the Chouf district.

Source: Al-Manar Television website, Beirut, in English 1740 gmt 27 Apr 12

LOAD-DATE: April 28, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2012 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              277 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                   The Mirror

                            April 28, 2012 Saturday
                                  Eire Edition

EURO 2012 FEARS AS CITY HIT BY 4 BLASTS;
COUNTDOWN TO SCHOOL CHILDREN AMONG 27 INJURED IN TERROR ATTACKS

BYLINE: MIRROR REPORTER

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 27

LENGTH: 290 words


NINE school children were among 27 people injured after four bombs rocked the
Ukranian city Dnipropetrovsk. The co-ordinated attacks hit busy locations across
the city close to where England will play their first match in Euro 2012 in
June.

President Viktor Yanukovich said the blasts, from bombs planted in rubbish bins,
represented "a challenge... to the whole country."

The first blast occurred at a tram stop yesterday morning, wounding 13 people
and shattering the windows of a nearby tram and car.

The second explosion came 30 minutes later next to a cinema, injuring 11 people,
nine of them children, the Emergencies Ministry said.

The third blast followed shortly afterwards next to a park, leaving two people
hurt.

It was unclear whether there were any injuries from the fourth explosion which
also took place in the downtown area.

England have their first match of the competition in the city of Donetsk on June
11, 150 miles away from the terror hit city.

The attacks raise the issue of security during the competition as well as the
safety of the England team who have been put in the same group as Ukraine.
Authorities offered no immediate explanation of any motive or say who they
thought could be behind the bombs.

But the prosecutor general's office said it had launched a criminal case
classifying the blasts as an "act of terrorism".

Dnipropetrovsk, 250 miles south-east of the capital Kiev, is one of the former
Soviet republic's biggest industrial hubs and was a key centre of the nuclear,
arms and space industries in Soviet times.

The city is also the birthplace of jailed opposition leader Yulia Tymoshenko.

150 MILES The distance from blast city to Donetsk where the England team will
play their first Euro 2012 match on June 11

LOAD-DATE: April 28, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: MAYHEM J Police tend to an injured woman yesterday in Dnipropetrovsk

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                            Copyright 2012 MGN Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              278 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                                The Western Mail

                            April 28, 2012 Saturday
                                 First Edition

Ukraine bombings branded a terrorist attack

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 319 words


A SERIES of blasts have rocked the Ukrainian city of Dnipropetrovsk, injuring 27
people, including nine teenagers, in what authorities believe was a terrorist
attack.

Top law enforcement officials rushed to the city, 250 miles south-east of Kiev,
to investigate but there was no immediate claim of responsibility.

The violence undermined Ukraine's security just weeks before it co-hosts the
European soccer championships in June. Many Ukrainian officials called the
blasts terrorist attacks, including Deputy Prosecutor General Yevgeny
Blazhivsky, and President Viktor Yanukovych vowed to investigate and punish the
perpetrators.

"This is yet another challenge for us, for the whole country," Yanukovych told
reporters. "We will think of how to respond to this properly."

Ukraine has not been afflicted with political terrorism but there have been
previous explosions connected to criminal extortion.

The opposition party led by jailed former prime minister Yulia Tymoshenko,
however, suggested Yanukovych's government may have organised the blasts to
deflect the world's attention from Tymoshenko's imprisonment and reported abuse
in prison. The first of four explosions rocked a tram stop shortly before noon,
injuring 13 people. The bomb was planted in a rubbish bin.

The second bomb, also planted in a rubbish bin, went off about 40 minutes later
near a cinema and a trade school, injuring two adults and nine teenagers. A
third blast in the city centre wounded three people and a fourth, also in the
centre, caused no casualties.

Deputy parliament speaker Mykola Tomenko, who is member of Tymoshenko's party,
suggested the blasts were orchestrated by the government to quiet Western
criticism of the Tymoshenko case. Tymoshenko, 51, the country's top opposition
leader, is serving a seven-year prison term on charges of abuse of office in a
case harshly criticised by the West as politically motivated.

LOAD-DATE: April 28, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: wm


                    Copyright 2012 Western Mail and Echo Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                              279 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring Middle East - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                             April 30, 2012 Monday

Syrian Central Bank reportedly attacked by "armed terrorist gangs"

LENGTH: 76 words


Text of report by Syrian TV on 30 April

As a flagrant violation to [UN Envoy] Annan's plan and as armed terrorist gangs
escalate their criminal operations against the Syrian people and their public
and personal properties, an armed terrorist group last night attacked the
Central Bank's building at Saba Bahrat Square in Damascus using RBG missiles.

Only material things were damaged.

Source: Syrian TV satellite service, Damascus, in Arabic 0430 gmt 30 Apr 12

LOAD-DATE: April 30, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2012 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              280 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring Middle East - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                             April 30, 2012 Monday

"Armed terrorist group" reportedly attack Syrian rescue patrol

LENGTH: 106 words


Text of report in English by state-run Syrian news agency SANA website

["Armed Groups Target" - SANA Headline]

Damascus/Idlib - An armed terrorist group on Monday targeted a rescue patrol
with RPG near Ibin al-Nafees Hospital in Damascus causing the injury of four
members of the patrol. The patrol is still pursuing the terrorists. Another
armed terrorist group targeted the Central Bank of Syria at al-Sabaa Bahrat
Square in Damascus with RPG, causing only material damages. In Idlib, twin
terrorist attacks hit Hanano Square and Carilton Street, Causalities were
reported.

Source: SANA news agency website, Damascus in English 30 Apr 12

LOAD-DATE: April 30, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2012 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              281 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                       April 30, 2012 Monday 7:10 PM GMT

Men appear in court charged with plotting to attack Territorial Army with model
car;
Four men from Luton have appeared in court accused of plotting a terrorist
attack on a Territorial Army base by driving a remote controlled car with a bomb
under the gate.

BYLINE: By Duncan Gardham

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 573 words


Zahid Iqbal, 30, Mohammed Sharfaraz Ahmed, 24, Syed Hussain, 21, and Umar
Arshad, 23, are accused of preparing acts of terrorism and possessing documents
useful for terrorism.

The men are charged with discussing methods, materials and targets for a
terrorist attack using firearms and improvised explosive devices between January
2011 and their arrest on April 25.

They allegedly researched, downloaded and discussed electronic files containing
practical instructions for a terrorist attack.

The men are also charged with "encouraging and participating in physical
training" in Snowdonia, purchasing survival equipment, and facilitating and
planning travel to Pakistan for terrorism.

They also allegedly collected and supplied funds for terrorist purposes
overseas, amounting to more than £180,000 and miniature gold bars worth £10,000.

The men had allegedly downloaded six issues of the al-Qaeda magazine Inspire
which included the recipe, "How to Make a bomb in the kitchen of your Mom" by
the al-Qaeda Chef, described as "practical instructions on how to make a viable
improvised explosive device."

Other documents found in their possession included 44 Ways to Support Jihad by
the former al-Qaeda leader Anwar al-Awlaki, while two of them had a document
called 21 Techniques of Silent Killing and a third man had a copy of the
Explosives Course 2.

Outlining the charges at the request of District Judge Daphne Wickham, Piers
Arnold, prosecuting, said two of the men were heard discussing attacking a
Territorial Army base and a number of unspecified targets in bugged
conversations recorded in their cars.

On April 22, Iqbal and Ahmed allegedly discussed building the bomb described in
Inspire and referred to a clock, timer, and remote control.

One man said he had driven past a Territorial Army centre and noticed a gap big
enough to drive a model car under.

Westminster Magistrates Court was told that the men planned to travel to the
Waziristan area of Pakistan close to the border with Afghanistan, in order to
link up with al-Qaeda and carry out attacks on Western forces.

He said they undertook training in Snowdonia on the basis that it was
particularly mountainous and as similar to Afghanistan as they could find.

They also allegedly collected and sent money to Pakistan and purchased survival
equipment and firearms.

All four men are British citizens. Three are of Pakistani origin and the
remaining, Ahmed, of Bangladeshi origin.

The "ring leader" was "probably" instructed by al-Qaeda in Pakistan while his
"second in command", whose role was allegedly to recruit members of the cell and
then send them abroad for training, travelled to Pakistan in March last year to
take part in terrorist activity.

A third man was said to be the "quartermaster" who collected supplies and
finance. The court was told that £180,000 had passed through his account in two
years and police found 10 gold bars, each the size of an After Eight mint, worth
a total of £10,000, along with a credit card "skimming" machine to copy pin
numbers and an encrypted USB computer stick.

The fourth member of the group was said to have offered practical advice on how
to prepare for travelling to Pakistan, what to wear and how to fit in. He
allegedly had an ID card that allowed him to travel around the country without a
visa.

All four men spoke only to confirm their names. None applied for bail and they
were remanded un custody to appear at the Old Bailey on May 11.

LOAD-DATE: May 1, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTNS


                  Copyright 2012 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              282 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring Middle East - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                              May 1, 2012 Tuesday

Four Algerian policemen die in Mekla "terrorist attack"

LENGTH: 186 words


Text of report by privately-owned Algerian newspaper El Watan website on 30
April

[Report by Hafid Azzouzi: "The Toll from the Mekla Attack Rises: Four Policemen
Killed and One Wounded"]

Two other policemen who were victims of the terrorist attack perpetrated by an
armed group this Monday, 30 April on the outskirts of the city of Mekla, 30
kilometres southeast of Tizi Ouzou, succumbed to their injuries during the
afternoon.

The new toll from this terrorist attack which, at about 1200 [1100 gmt] hours,
targeted a vehicle from the judicial police brigade, is four dead, according to
a hospital source.

By way of a reminder, a judicial police vehicle was attacked this Monday, 30
April, at the edge of the city of Mekla 30 kilometres southeast of the main town
in the wilaya (province) of Tizi Ouzou.

The policemen were surprised in an ambush laid by a terrorist group in the spot
known as Tighzert, at the intersection that leads towards the village of
Taourirt Aden, local sources added.

There is also talk of one terrorist who was eliminated during the skirmish.

Source: El Watan website, Algiers, in French 30 Apr 12

LOAD-DATE: May 1, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2012 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              283 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                               Independent.co.uk

                        May 1, 2012 Tuesday 12:00 AM GMT

Four charged with plotting terror attacks;
Court told gang planned to use explosives and guns in attacks inspired by
al-Qa'ida

BYLINE: Paul Peachey

SECTION: CRIME

LENGTH: 356 words


Four men arrested in Luton last week appeared in court yesterday accused of a
range of terrorist offences including discussing plans for carrying out attacks
with guns and explosives.

Zahid Iqbal, 30, Mohammed Sharfaraz Ahmed, 24, Syed Hussain, 21, and Umar
Arshad, 23, appeared for a 20-minute hearing at Westminster magistrates court in
central London yesterday charged with committing, helping others, or preparing
for acts of terrorism. They spoke only to confirm their names and their dates of
birth.

The men - all from Luton - were also accused of having downloaded documents that
were likely to be useful for terrorists. They included the al-Qa'ida manual, the
Explosives Course 2, 21 Techniques of Silent Killing and 44 Ways to Support
Jihad. Each man was also accused of having six copies of the al-Qa'ida magazine
Inspire.

The four men, and one other, were arrested last week following a coordinated
operation by the Metropolitan Police at their homes in Luton.

Piers Arnold, a prosecutor from the special crime and counter terrorism division
of the Crown Prosecution Service (CPS), said: "After carefully considering
evidence gathered by the Metropolitan Police Service, I have concluded that
there is sufficient evidence and that it is in the public interest to jointly
charge... with an offence contrary to section 5 (1) of the Terrorism Act 2006."
The maximum sentence for such an offence is life imprisonment.

The fifth man was released without charge because of insufficient evidence.

The men were charged with alleged offences covering a period from January 2011,
to 25 April 2012. The alleged conduct linked to terrorism included encouraging
travel overseas, organising physical training and buying survival equipment,
according to the charge sheet.

The men were accused of downloading files containing instructions for a
terrorist attack and discussing the methods to carry them out, including using
guns and improvised explosive devices.

They were also accused of collecting and supplying funds for terrorist purposes
overseas. District Judge Daphne Wickham remanded the men in custody, to appear
at the Old Bailey on 11 May.

LOAD-DATE: May 2, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBI


                  Copyright 2012 Independent News & Media plc
                              All Rights Reserved

                              284 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                   MailOnline

                        May 1, 2012 Tuesday 10:42 PM GMT

'Homegrown' terrorist convicted in suicide attack plot on New York City's subway
system after British supergrass testifies against him

BYLINE: DAILY MAIL REPORTER

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 887 words



     ·    Adis Medunjanin faces life in prison for plot against subway system
     ·    Also plotted to attack Times Square, Grand Central Terminal and the
          New York Stock Exchange
     ·    Prosecutor calls case 'Terrorism 101' in closing arguments
     ·    First court case to include testimony from admitted homegrown
          terrorists


A New York man has been convicted of plotting an aborted suicide mission against
New York City subways in 2009 - a case that featured the first-time testimony
from admitted homegrown terrorists about Al-Qaeda's fixation with pulling off
another attack on American soil.

A jury found Adis Medunjanin guilty today of all counts for his role in a terror
plot that federal authorities say was one of the closest calls since September
11, 2001.

'This is Terrorism 101,' Assistant U.S. Attorney Berit Berger said in closing
arguments in federal court in Brooklyn. 'The goal of this conspiracy was to kill
as many people as possible.'

Medunjanin could be ordered to spend the rest of his life in prison when he is
sentenced on September 7.

Defence attorney Robert Gottlieb said he disagreed with the verdict and would
appeal, but said the trial showed that the U.S. court system - not a military
tribunal - is best for prosecuting terror crimes.

'The world and our national government including all our politicians should take
note that this is the way crimes should be decided, not in a military
commission, not in a star chamber, but in America,' he said.

Medunjanin showed no visible reaction to the verdicts.

Gottlieb said Medunjanin asked his lawyer to 'tell his family to be strong.' His
mother and sister testified during the trial of terrifying late-night raids by
federal agents out for Medunjanin.

The defence admitted that the Bosnian-born Medunjanin wanted to fight for the
Taliban, but they insisted he never agreed to spread death and destruction in
the city where his family put down roots.

Medunjanin, 27, went overseas to fulfill a 'romantic version of jihad... His
plan and intent was to join the Taliban and stand up for what he believes in,'
Gottlieb said in his closing.

'That was his purpose.'

The government's case was built on the testimony of four men: two other
radicalized Muslim men from Queens who pleaded guilty in the subway plot, a
British would-be shoe bomber and a man originally from Long Island who gave
Al-Qaeda pointers on how best to attack a Walmart store.

Najibullah Zazi and Zarein Ahmedzay, both former high school classmates of
Medunjanin, told jurors that the scheme unfolded after the trio traveled to
Pakistan in 2008 to avenge the U.S. invasion of Afghanistan.

While receiving terror training at outposts in the South Waziristan region of
Pakistan, al-Qaida operatives encouraged the American recruits to return home
for a suicide-bombing mission intended to spread panic and cripple the economy.

Among the targets considered were New York Stock Exchange, Times Square and
Grand Central Terminal, the men testified.

In a later meeting in New York, the plotters decided to strap on bombs and blow
themselves up at rush hour on Manhattan subway lines because the transit system
is 'the heart of everything in New York City,' Zazi said.

Zazi told jurors how he learned to distill explosives ingredients from nail
polish remover, hydrogen peroxide and other products sold at beauty supply
stores.

When leaving Pakistan, he relocated to Colorado, where he perfected a homemade
detonator in a hotel room and set out for New York City by car around the eighth
anniversary of 9/11.

The plot - financed in part by $50,000 in credit card charges - was abandoned
after Zazi noticed that everywhere he drove in New York, a car followed.

'I think law enforcement is on us,' he recalled telling Ahmedzay. Later, he said
he told Medunjanin in a text message, 'We are done.'

The other convicted terrorists were called as witnesses to give a rare glimpse
into Al-Qaeda's training methods and the mindset of its leadership.

In a videotaped deposition made public for the first time during the trial,
Al-Qaeda supergrass Saajid Badat recounted a clandestine meeting where Osama bin
Laden explained the rationale behind the failed plot for Badat and Richard Reid
to attack trans-Atlantic flights with bombs hidden in shoes.

Bin Laden 'said the American economy is like a chain,' the British man said. 'If
you break one - one link of the chain - the whole economy will be brought down.
So after September 11 attacks, this operation will ruin the aviation industry
and in turn the whole economy will come down.'

Bryant Neal Vinas, of Patchogue on Long Island, testified that he went to
Pakistan in 2007 and later joined Al-Qaeda forces in an attack against American
soldiers.

Vinas described how he suggested to others in Al-Qaeda in the summer of 2008
that they could plant explosives in suitcase aboard a Long Island Rail Road
train or hide them inside a television that was being returned to a Walmart.

An attack on the popular retail outlet 'would cause a very big economy hit,' he
said.

In February, the court heard Medunjanin's 911 call as he planned to commit
'Jihad' while speeding on a Queens highway.

'This is Adis. We love - we love death,' he says in English to a confused 911
operator.

The rest of his diatribe before the crash was in Arabic, but translated as:
'There is no God but Allah and Mohammed is the messenger of Allah'.

LOAD-DATE: May 2, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDM


                   Copyright 2012 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              285 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                               The Times (London)

                              May 1, 2012 Tuesday
                                   Edition 1;
                                    Ireland

Snipers and fighter jets prepare for Olympic terrorist attack

BYLINE: Ashling O'Connor

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 461 words


Snipers in helicopters, low-flying fighter jets and dummy surface-to-air
missiles will be deployed over London this week as part of a training exercise
to prepare for a potential terrorist attack during the Olympic Games.

Operation Guardian, taking place over nine days, will test six potential
locations for ground-based defence systems during the Games.

Two of the sites are tower blocks in East London, where residents have expressed
concerns about the possibility of high velocity missile launch pads being
erected on their roofs.

Brian Whelan, 28, one of 700 residents in a gated flats complex in Bow, where
ten soldiers will be stationed, said that the idea of firing missiles was
"totally unsuitable". He said: "I don't think they're the kind of thing you can
fire over a highly populated area like Tower Hamlets. Think of the debris."

General Sir Nick Parker, standing joint commander, said that no final decision
had been taken to deploy the missile defence systems but that they had to be
tested to confirm that they were in "the very best place for them to go".

He said: "I understand that people will be concerned ... but it's not going to
be a huge invasion. We are preparing for the worst case, not the most likely,
scenario."

Blackheath Common and Oxleas Wood, both in southeast London, plus William
Girling Reservoir in the Lea Valley reservoir chain in Enfield and Barn Hill at
Netherhouse Farm in Epping Forest are also being considered as sites for the
Rapier missile system.

General Sir Nick said that the exercises, between May 2 and 10, were geared
towards dealing with a range of scenarios from a 9/11-style airborne assault to
a "low and slow" attack from a single light aircraft.

Exercises will also take place at Weymouth, the venue for the Olympic sailing,
and along the Thames. HMS Ocean will berth at Greenwich as accommodation for 400
army personnel and a base for smaller boats and helicopters. RAF Typhoon jets
based at RAF Northolt will also perform low-flying "special missions" during the
exercise.

Some residents in East London said that the public consultation by the Ministry
of Defence amounted to little more than a leaflet drop.

One historian, who has been studying diplomatic relations around the Games since
the late 1980s, said that the reaction of London to a potential terrorist threat
was "a bit over the top".

Dr Martin Polley, from the Free Word Centre in London, said: "I can't think of
any other Games held in a democracy that has had this level of security on
display."

The £600 million Olympic security plan will involve officers from 51 police
forces in the UK. Philip Hammond, the Defence Secretary, said: "This exercise is
about pushing our people and our systems to the limit to ensure that we are
ready for the challenge."

LOAD-DATE: May 1, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: A Puma military helicopter flies over the Olympic site on a training
sortie

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: TIM


                    Copyright 2012 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              286 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                               The Times (London)

                              May 1, 2012 Tuesday
                                   Edition 2;
                                National Edition

Snipers and fighter jets prepare for Olympic terrorist attack

BYLINE: Ashling O'Connor

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 460 words


Snipers in helicopters, low-flying fighter jets and dummy surface-to-air
missiles will be deployed over London this week as part of a training exercise
to prepare for a potential terrorist attack during the Olympic Games.

Olympic Guardian, taking place over nine days, will test six potential locations
for ground-based defence systems during the Games.

Two of the sites are tower blocks in East London, where residents have expressed
concerns about the possibility of high-velocity missile launch pads being
erected on their roofs.

Brian Whelan, 28, one of 700 residents in a gated flats complex in Bow, where
ten soldiers will be stationed, said that the idea of firing missiles was
"totally unsuitable". He said: "I don't think they're the kind of thing you can
fire over a highly populated area like Tower Hamlets. Think of the debris."

General Sir Nick Parker, standing joint commander, said that no final decision
had been taken to deploy the missile defence systems, but they had to be tested
to confirm that they were in "the very best place for them to go".

He said: "I understand that people will be concerned ... but it's not going to
be a huge invasion. We are preparing for the worst-case, not the most likely,
scenario."

Blackheath Common and Oxleas Wood, both in southeast London, plus William
Girling Reservoir in the Lea Valley reservoir chain in Enfield and Barn Hill at
Netherhouse Farm in Epping Forest are also being considered as sites for the
Rapier missile system.

General Parker said that the exercises, between May 2 and 10, were geared
towards dealing with a range of scenarios from a 9/11-style airborne assault to
a "low and slow" attack from a single light aircraft.

Exercises will also take place at Weymouth, the venue for the Olympic sailing,
and along the Thames. HMS Ocean will berth at Greenwich as accommodation for 400
army personnel and a base for smaller boats and helicopters. RAF Typhoon jets
based at RAF Northolt will also perform low-flying "special missions" during the
exercise.

Some residents in East London said that the public consultation by the Ministry
of Defence amounted to little more than a leaflet drop.

One historian, who has been studying diplomatic relations around the Games since
the late 1980s, said that the reaction of London to a potential terrorist threat
was "a bit over the top".

Dr Martin Polley, from the Free Word Centre in London, said: "I can't think of
any other Games held in a democracy that has had this level of security on
display."

The £600 million Olympic security plan will involve officers from 51 police
forces in the UK. Philip Hammond, the Defence Secretary, said: "This exercise is
about pushing our people and our systems to the limit to ensure that we are
ready for the challenge."

LOAD-DATE: May 1, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: A Puma military helicopter flies over the Olympic site on a training
sortie

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: TIM


                    Copyright 2012 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              287 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                 BBC Monitoring Former Soviet Union - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                             May 2, 2012 Wednesday

Russian Foreign Ministry condemns terrorist attacks in Syria

LENGTH: 375 words


Text of "Press release on new terrorist attacks in Syria" in Russian by the
Russian Ministry of Foreign Affairs website on 2 May

After a series of terrorist attacks in Syria on 27 April, two booby-trapped cars
were blown up in the north of the country in the city of Idlib on 30 April. The
criminal attack was again targeted against the government institutions,
including the security services' offices. Nine people were killed, dozens of
civilians were wounded, and nearby houses were seriously damaged. There were no
citizens of Russia among the injured. Moscow has expressed its deepest
condolences to the victims' relatives and sincere sympathy to the injured.

On the same day, the building of the Syrian Central Bank in Damascus was fired
upon from grenade launchers by the militants. A police patrol was attacked in
one of the districts of the Syrian capital, as a result of which four people
were wounded, and an attempt to blow up an oil pipeline was made in the province
of Deir ez-Zor.

Moscow has strongly condemned the new attacks by the terrorists and noted that
they have actually launched a large-scale campaign to destabilize the situation
in the country and to disrupt United Nations and Arab League special envoy Kofi
Annan's plan. The latest blasts were timed to coincide with the newly appointed
head of the UN Supervision Mission [in Syria], Norwegian Gen R.Mood' arrival in
Damascus within the framework of the implementation of the plan.

There is no doubt that those who oppose the peaceful efforts to normalize the
situation in the country are behind the terrorist attacks. Annan's plan
envisaging the end of bloodshed and the beginning of an inclusive inter-Syrian
dialogue contradicts their plans aimed at changing the political system in Syria
using force.

We see the task of the world community in preventing the disruption of the
implementation of the UN and Arab League special envoy's plan. For our part, we
will do everything that depends on us so that violence in Syria is stopped as
soon as possible. It is necessary to create conditions so that the Syrians could
agree on the ways of the further development of their state without foreign
interference.

Source: Ministry of Foreign Affairs website, Moscow, in Russian 2 May 12

LOAD-DATE: May 2, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2012 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              288 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                       May 2, 2012 Wednesday 8:30 PM GMT

Illegal immigrant plotted suicide bombing in Sweden, court hears;
An illegal immigrant plotted to carry out a terrorist attack with a suicide
bomber on a busy street in Sweden, a British court heard yesterday.

BYLINE: By Auslan Cramb Scottish Correspondent

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 448 words


Taimour Abdulwahab died after detonating an improvised explosive device in the
Swedish capital on December 11, 2010, having earlier set fire to a car
containing an IED.

Nasserdine Menni yesterday denied conspiring with Abdulwahab, from Luton, Beds,
to further terrorist aims by criminal means, including the use of explosive
devices intended to kill members of the public in Sweden.

It is alleged he did so in Glasgow, Luton, Bedford, Sweden, Syria, Iraq and
other unknown locations between January 1, 2003 and March 8, 2011.

Menni, whose age is not known, also denies transferring money to Abdulwahab,
knowing it would be used for terrorist purposes. His trial at the High Court in
Glasgow is expected to last for up to three months.

Karl Viktor Andersson, a Swedish police officer, said he was answering an
emergency call after reports of a car fire at around 5pm, when he was stopped by
a member of the public and told there had been an explosion in the Bryggargatan
area.

He added: "We just passed the corner and there was a body lying there on his
back, with his intestines outside his body."

Sgt Andersson said four or five off-duty medics were close to the body in a
bustling shopping area in the city centre. He told the court that shops on
either side of the body were badly damaged.

Asked if he spoke to the injured man, he replied: "He was not in any shape to
speak. One eye was open, but he was quite badly injured."

Roger Skoglund, a police investigator, said he went to the scene at around 10pm,
adding: "I was met by the bomb squad who showed me the scene. The scene was
sealed off so there was no one there apart from the bomb squad.

"A little bit down there was a man on his back covered by a blanket from an
ambulance. Around him there were a number of small items which looked like small
pipe bombs which had not gone off and at the front of him a small pot which had
detonated."

Menni, who was living in Glasgow and is understood to be Algerian, is also said
to have repeatedly communicated with Abdulwahab in person, by phone, email,
voice-over internet protocol systems and by other unknown means to discuss ways
to pursue the conspiracy.

The indictment is divided into subsections outlining the allegations, which
include a charge that he purchased false identity documents to access a bank
account.

It is alleged that he accessed three bank accounts by fraud and obtained
benefits by fraud.

He is also accused of obtaining leave to remain in the UK by means of deception
between April 6, 2009 and June 29, 2009, by falsely stating his name was Ezedden
Khalid Ahmed Al-Khaledi, and claiming to be seeking asylum. Menni denies all the
charges against him.

The trial continues.

LOAD-DATE: May 3, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTNS


                  Copyright 2012 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              289 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                       BBC Monitoring Europe - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                              May 3, 2012 Thursday

Danish Supreme Court upholds terrorism ruling against cartoonist attacker

LENGTH: 297 words


Text of report in English by Danish leading privately-owned independent
newspaper Politiken website, on 2 May

[Report edited by Julian Isherwood: "Supreme Court: Attack Was Terrorism"]

The man who attacked the cartoonist Kurt Westergaard has had his sentence
confirmed: 10 years.

The Danish Supreme Court has returned its verdict on Muhudiin Muhammed Geele,
30, who attacked the Danish cartoonist Kurt Westergaard with an axe on New
Year's Day in 2010, determining that the incident was a terrorist act.

Geele has been sentenced to 10 years in prison after which he has been
permanently banished from Denmark.

The Supreme Court ruled that Geele's act was "an attempt to limit the freedom of
speech and prevent a public debate," as well as "an attempt to seriously
frighten the population".

As such, the act comes under the terrorism clauses in criminal law.

The Supreme Court's verdict ends a case which has now been through three courts
-the Aarhus Municipal Court, the Western High Court -which increased Geele's
sentenced by a year to 10 years -and now the Supreme Court, which declined a
prosecution call for a 12-year sentence. The two appeal courts have upheld the
decision to permanently banish Geele from Denmark after he has served his
sentence.

It was on New Year's day 2010 that Geele forced entry into Westergaard's private
home with an axe while the cartoonist was looking after his granddaughter.

Westergaard managed to raise the alarm and took refuge in a safe room built
following threats against his life in connection with drawings of the Prophet
Mohammed [Muhammad].

As police arrived, Geele escaped from the house but went towards police officers
with a knife and axe, throwing the axe at one of the police officers.

Source: Politiken website, Copenhagen, in English 2 May 12

LOAD-DATE: May 3, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2012 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              290 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring Middle East - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                              May 3, 2012 Thursday

Syrian basketball team player attacked by ''terrorists'' dies

LENGTH: 138 words


Text of report in English by state-run Syrian news agency SANA website

["National Basketball Team's Member Martyred" - SANA Headline]

Damascus (SANA) - Syrian national basketball team's member, Basel Raiya
succumbed to his wounds on Wednesday [2 May] as he was shot by an armed
terrorist group in Ashrafiat Sahnania district in Damascus Countryside a week
ago.

An armed terrorist group attacked Raiya with its machine-guns in front of the a
school in which he was exercising, hitting him six times and causing him serious
injuries. Raiya was taken to hospital where he had a surgery but died this
morning.

Raiya won six local tournaments as a member of al-Wahda Basketball Club and four
at the Republic's Cup. He also won the title of Asia Champions in Malaysia in
2003.

Source: SANA news agency website, Damascus in English 3 May 12

LOAD-DATE: May 3, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2012 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              291 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring Middle East - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                              May 3, 2012 Thursday

Israel renews travel advisory against Tunisia over terror attack fears

LENGTH: 109 words


Text of report in English by Israeli Government Press Office on 3 May

[Press release: "Travel Advisory Regarding Tunisia" - received via e-mail]

Following an updated assessment, the National Security Council Counter-Terrorism
has, today, 3 May, decided to reiterate the existing travel advisory regarding
Tunisia in light of plans to perpetrate terrorist attacks against Israeli/Jewish
targets there ahead of the upcoming (9-10 May 2012) annual Lag B'Omer pilgrimage
to Djerba.

The NSCCTB notes that there is a high concrete threat regarding travel to
Tunisia and recommends avoiding visiting there.

Source: Government Press Office, Jerusalem, in English 3 May 12

LOAD-DATE: May 3, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2012 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              292 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                   MailOnline

                       May 3, 2012 Thursday 12:04 PM GMT

Greenpeace 'bombs' French nuclear reactor in mock terror attack (but could
activists do the same in the US?)

BYLINE: DAILY MAIL REPORTER

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 612 words



     ·    Paraglider drops smoke bomb onto reactor building
     ·    Stunt designed to highlight serious security flaws ahead of
          presidential election


A Greenpeace paraglider dropped a smoke bomb onto a French nuclear reactor to
highlight a potentially catastrophic lack of security around the power station.

Two members of the environmental group were arrested following the stunt at the
Bugey plant in southeastern France which came four days before France's
presidential election runoff.

To demonstrate the plant's vulnerability to terror attacks, the pilot threw a
red-smoke flare onto the roof of the reactor building before landing nearby.

Scroll down for video

EDF, the French energy giant that runs the country's nuclear plants, said in a
statement that safety was at no time compromised.

In a separate incident a Greenpeace activist was arrested after breaking into
the Civaux nuclear site in southwestern France through the truck gate and
remaining hidden for an hour in bushes.

Greenpeace said it wanted to 'send a message' to French presidential candidates
Francois Hollande and Nicolas Sarkozy ahead of Sunday's election.

The incident has sparked concerns that activists could be planning a similar
stunt in the US.

Edwin Lyman, a nuclear terrorism specialist, believes a danger does exist
following a decision by the Nuclear Regulatory Commission to exclude the
possibility of an aerial attack from a list of potential threats.

He told MSNBC: 'The NRC doesn't require that nuclear plants have means to detect
or defend against intrusions from the air.

'And the federal government also does not require 'no fly zones' around nuclear
plants that could be enforced by the military.'

However Steve Kerekes, spokesman for the Nuclear Energy Institute, dismissed the
possibility as 'completely speculative', and points to a 2002 study which found
that U.S. nuclear containment structures can withstand even a crash from a
commercial airliner.

He told MSNBC: 'Our facilities are extremely well-defended. Let's leave it at
that.'

France's dependence on nuclear energy has been much debated ahead of this
weekend's electoral vote.

The country relies on nuclear power to produce 75 per cent of its electricity
making it more dependent on the technology than any other country.

Sophia Majnoni d'Intignano, in charge of nuclear questions at Greenpeace, said:
'This over flight shows the vulnerability of the French nuclear site to an air
attack.

'While Germany took account of a plane crash in its safety tests, France still
refuses to analyze this risk for our reactors.'

A police spokesman confirmed: 'A Greenpeace activist arrived with a motorised
paraglider around 7:40 am. He flew over the plant, threw a smoke bomb and landed
inside, where he was detained.'

Greenpeace said the detained activist was a German national. The second man was
arrested outside the plant on suspicion of helping guide the pilot, police said.

'We wanted to illustrate an external danger, like a fall of an airplane"'into a
nuclear plant, she said.

In December, Greenpeace activists entered the Nogent-sur-Seine plant near Paris,
climbing onto one of the domes that houses a reactor, while other activists
entered other nuclear installations.

Socialist presidential candidate Francois Hollande has said he would shut
France's oldest nuclear plant if elected.

After the Fukushima disaster in March 2011, France pledged to carry out safety
tests on its 58 nuclear reactors to test their capacity to resist flooding,
earthquakes, power outages, failure of the cooling systems and operational
management of accidents.

But those did not include terrorist attacks, or the possibility of a plane
crash.

LOAD-DATE: May 4, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDM


                   Copyright 2012 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              293 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                   MailOnline

                       May 3, 2012 Thursday 11:27 AM GMT

Greenpeace 'bombs' French nuclear reactor in mock terror attack

BYLINE: DAILY MAIL REPORTER

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 460 words



     ·    Paraglider drops smoke bomb onto reactor building
     ·    Stunt designed to highlight serious security flaws ahead of
          presidential election


A Greenpeace paraglider dropped a smoke bomb onto a French nuclear reactor to
highlight a potentially catastrophic lack of security around the power station.

Two members of the environmental group were arrested following the stunt at the
Bugey plant in southeastern France which came four days before France's
presidential election runoff.

To demonstrate the plant's vulnerability to terror attacks, the pilot threw a
red-smoke flare onto the roof of the reactor building before landing nearby.

Scroll down for video

EDF, the French energy giant that runs the country's nuclear plants, said in a
statement that safety was at no time compromised.

In a separate incident a Greenpeace activist was arrested after breaking into
the Civaux nuclear site in southwestern France through the truck gate and
remaining hidden for an hour in bushes.

Greenpeace said it wanted to 'send a message' to French presidential candidates
Francois Hollande and Nicolas Sarkozy ahead of Sunday's election.

France's dependence on nuclear energy has been much debated ahead of the vote.

The country relies on nuclear power to produce 75 per cent of its electricity
making it more dependent on the technology than any other country.

Sophia Majnoni d'Intignano, in charge of nuclear questions at Greenpeace, said:
'This over flight shows the vulnerability of the French nuclear site to an air
attack.

'While Germany took account of a plane crash in its safety tests, France still
refuses to analyze this risk for our reactors.'

A police spokesman confirmed: 'A Greenpeace activist arrived with a motorised
paraglider around 7:40 am. He flew over the plant, threw a smoke bomb and landed
inside, where he was detained.'

Greenpeace said the detained activist was a German national. The second man was
arrested outside the plant on suspicion of helping guide the pilot, police said.

'We wanted to illustrate an external danger, like a fall of an airplane"'into a
nuclear plant, she said.

In December, Greenpeace activists entered the Nogent-sur-Seine plant near Paris,
climbing onto one of the domes that houses a reactor, while other activists
entered other nuclear installations.

Socialist presidential candidate Francois Hollande has said he would shut
France's oldest nuclear plant if elected.

After the Fukushima disaster in March 2011, France pledged to carry out safety
tests on its 58 nuclear reactors to test their capacity to resist flooding,
earthquakes, power outages, failure of the cooling systems and operational
management of accidents.

But those did not include terrorist attacks, or the possibility of a plane
crash.

LOAD-DATE: May 4, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDM


                   Copyright 2012 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              294 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                   MailOnline

                        May 3, 2012 Thursday 8:41 AM GMT

Defending the Olympics from terror attack: Fighter planes at Northolt for first
time since WWII as elite RAF say they will shoot down passenger jets to protect
London

BYLINE: DAILY MAIL REPORTER

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 1339 words



     ·    Missile defence systems stationed around London including on
          Blackheath Common and in Epping Forest
     ·    Chinook Helicopters on standby to take to the air over the Olympic
          Stadium in the event of a security alert


Elite fighter pilots say they are 'trained and prepared' to shoot down a
hijacked passenger plane to prevent a 9/11-style suicide attack on the Olympics.

Four Typhoon jets will be on standby to intercept 'rogue' aircraft intent on
causing carnage at London 2012.

Normally the RAF's Quick Reaction Alert jets are based at RAF Coningsby in
Lincolnshire and RAF Leuchars in Fife to defend UK airspace. But the 1,370mph
planes will also be stationed at RAF Northolt, in west London, during the
Olympics.

It is the first time fighters have been based at the airfield since the Second
World War.

Scroll down for video of the Typhoons in action

The £125million jets - which fought in battle for the first time in Libya last
year - landed in London yesterday ahead of a major military exercise to test
Games security.

They will provide a first line of defence against attack from the air and are
capable of intercepting any aircraft that strays without permission into a
'restricted' zone 30 miles around the capital.

If a rogue aircraft refuses to turn back, Prime Minister David Cameron could
give the order for the fighters to shoot it down - even if it was carrying
civilians.

A smaller 'no-fly zone' will be in place over the Olympic Park, Heathrow Airport
and London City Airport, into which only scheduled flights will be allowed.

Squadron Leader Gordon Lovett, 37, said: 'We would go out and identify the
aircraft and try to establish contact with it.

'Any decision to employ force is going to be taken at the highest political
level, and we will carry out that task. If we are told to deploy ultimate force,
we are trained and prepared for it.'

The Typhoons will take part in Exercise Olympic Guardian, a nine-day training
operation running until May 10.

A ring of six Starstreak and Rapier missile sites around London could also be in
place to protect the Games, each with the power to bring down a light aircraft.

But the Stop the War Coalition said such a heavy military presence in London was
'unacceptable' and warned it would create a 'climate of fear'.

The group's Lindsey German said: 'Far from safeguarding Londoners as they go
about their daily lives, they will bring a real fear of explosions and the
prospect of these places becoming a target for terrorist attack.

'If the Olympic Park needs security, this should be within the confines of the
park and not forced on ordinary people in east and south London who have no say
in the matter.'

Air Vice-Marshal Stuart Atha, air component commander for Olympics air security,
said: 'What we will have is a plan that has many levels to it which will allow
us to deal at one end - which is that 9/11-type attack - perhaps down to the
lower and the slower type of threat that we may face.

'There is no specific threat and all we are doing is having in place what we
would describe as prudent and appropriate measures in place, in order that we
could react if required in a timely and appropriate fashion.'

Air Vice-Marshal Atha said he hoped the exercise would have 'an effect on the
mind' of any potential attackers.

'I would hope when they see how we are preparing they might be deterred from
making any threats to the Games,' he added.

The RAF warned that people in south-east England will notice an increase in air
activity at certain times, in particular this weekend.

Other aircraft involved in the exercise include Royal Navy Sea King helicopters
temporarily based at RAF Northolt, RAF Puma helicopters based at a Territorial
Army centre in Ilford, east London, and Army and Royal Navy Lynx helicopters on
HMS Ocean in the Thames.

Last month a sonic boom caused by two Typhoon aircraft responding to an
emergency signal was reportedly heard as far afield as Bath, Coventry and
Oxford.

Group Captain Tim O'Brien, station commander of RAF Northolt, said he hoped
people living nearby would understand the need for the Typhoon jets, which can
travel at up to 1,370mph.

Discussions have taken place with residents, and signs have been placed by roads
to warn motorists of loud noises.

'There's very much a sense of cohesion with the local populace that they are in
this with us, and they are going to reap the benefits of the mutual pride that
we will gain from it as well,' Group Capt O'Brien said.

Defence Secretary Phillip Hammond said: 'Whilst there is no specific threat to
the Games, we have to be ready to assist in delivering a safe and secure
Olympics for all to enjoy.

'The fact that our state-of-the-art Typhoons will be stationed at RAF Northolt
underlines the commitment of the Ministry of Defence and our armed forces to
keeping the public safe at a time when the world will be watching us.'

AN AIR BASE OLDER THAN THE RAF: THE CHANGING FACE OF NORTHOLT

In 1912 a proposal was made for the area around what is now RAF Northolt to be
developed as 'Harrow Aerodrome'.

The outbreak of the First World War necessitated a new airbase for the Royal
Flying Corps. Major Sefton Brancker of the War Office settled on a site near
Northolt Junction railway station but it was not until January 1915 that the
British government officially requisitioned the land.

Construction of the aerodrome, to be named RFC Military School, Ruislip, began
in January 1915. It opened on 3 May 1915, and became known as 'Northolt' despite
actually being situated in South Ruislip, because the nearest station was
Northolt Junction.

In the same year the airfield was extended westwards and aircraft began flying
sorties in defence of London against Zeppelin raids.In 1918 the RAF was founded,
replacing the RFC.

The Officers' Mess was built around 1920, and is still operational today as is
one hangar and several barrack blocks dating from the mid-1920s to the 1930s.

In the 1930s, RAF Northolt was the first station to operate the Hurricane and
during the Second World War was again one of the key airfields in the defence of
London.

During the Battle of Britain, Northolt was 'home' to a series of allied and
British Hurricane and Spitfire squadrons, including a complete Polish Wing.

In 1943, RAF Northolt's Spitfire Mk IX Squadrons became the first Spitfire Wing
as a unit to operate over Germany.

One notable flight took place in 1944 when liberator 'Marco Polo' flew non-stop
from Washington to Northolt, taking a mere 19 hours and 46 minutes.

In 1946 the airfield was loaned for civil use while Heathrow Airport was under
construction and by 1952, Northolt was the busiest airfield in Europe.

In December 1946, after taking off during a heavy snowstorm, a Douglas DC-3
operated by British European Airways, flying from Northolt to Glasgow, crashed
onto the roof of a house in South Ruislip.

All the crew and passengers escaped unharmed by climbing through the loft of the
house and leaving via the front door.

Civil flights ceased when the central area at Heathrow opened in 1954 with
Northolt reverting to sole military use in May that year.

By the 1980s movements of privately-owned aircraft, mainly corporate jets,
outnumbered military aircraft. Civil flights were limited to 28 per day, with a
maximum of 7,000 a year. This limit remains to this day.

Much media attention focused on the airfield when the body of Diana, Princess of
Wales, arrived there from Villacoublay airfield, in Paris after her death on 31
August 1997.

The Queen's Colour Squadron, then based at neighbouring RAF Uxbridge, acted as
the bearer party.

Four years later attention again focused on Northolt when the seriously ill
fugitive Great Train Robber Ronnie Biggs was flown from Brazil to the airfield
to be arrested by waiting police officers.

Biggs was taken straight to Belmarsh Prison to complete the remainder of his
sentence.

Over the past 60 years it has been used to welcome foreign dignitaries to the
country.

LOAD-DATE: May 4, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDM


                   Copyright 2012 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              295 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                        May 3, 2012 Thursday 5:51 PM GMT

Nigeria market bombing kills at least 56;
Cattle thieves raided a market in northern Nigeria, killing at least 56 people
and burning down a market in an area beset by terror attacks from
al-Qaeda-linked militants.

BYLINE: By Mike Pflanz Nairobi

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 339 words


Gunmen firing into crowds of herders stormed the cattle sale in Potiskum in Yobe
state, but were pushed back and forced to flee, witnesses said.

Three people were killed and one of the suspected thieves was burned alive by
the cattle herders in retaliation.

The men then returned later in the evening, setting fire to the market and
buildings that surround it, and then firing indiscriminately as people fled
their burning homes, killing dozens more.

By Thursday evening, medical staff reported that morgues were overflowing, with
more than 56 bodies counted in one room attached to a hospital mortuary.

Moses Namiri, the Yobe state police commissioner, said that his officers had
counted 34 fatalities, but that the numbers could be higher because in the local
Muslim tradition, the dead are buried within 24 hours of death.

Boko Haram, Nigeria's Islamist insurgents, who are linked to al-Qaeda, have
targeted the area in the past, but sources in Potiskum said that Wednesday's
attacks were not connected to the organisation.

"This is something more like banditry," said a general trader in the town, who
gave his name only as Farouk. "It is something that we suffer here regularly,
but never as bad as what we have just seen." But earlier this year, suspected
Boko Haram sympathisers burnt to the ground several shops run by Christians from
Nigeria's south, days after the militants warned non-Muslims to leave northern
towns.

Boko Haram, which wants to impose an Islamic state on Nigeria's mixed population
of Muslims and Christians, has been blamed for hundreds of killings since its
uprising against the government began in 2009.

A spate of attacks in the past few days, including one against Christians in the
north that killed 19 people on Sunday, have dampened hopes that tighter security
had significantly reduced the sect's capability.

Nigerian forces killed the suspected mastermind of Sunday's attack on Christian
worshippers, in a raid in the main northern city of Kano on Tuesday that
resulted in a gun battle lasting several hours.

LOAD-DATE: May 4, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTNS


                  Copyright 2012 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              296 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                 The Irish News

                               May 4, 2012 Friday

Letters give insight into mindset of terror leader - Bin Laden was plotting
attacks but worried about mistakes

SECTION: Pg. 27

LENGTH: 466 words


Letters from Osama bin Laden's last hideout show him worrying about mistakes
made by his terror network and the need to regain the trust of potential Muslim
supporters.

He was plotting new attacks on the US right up until he was killed by special
forces last year.

A selection of documents seized in last year's raid on bin Laden's Pakistan
house was posted online yesterday by the US Army's Combating Terrorism Centre.

The documents show dark days for al-Qaida and its hunkered-down leader after
years of attacks by the US and what bin Laden saw as bumbling within his
organisation and its allies.

"I plan to release a statement that we are starting a new phase to correct (the
mistakes) we made," bin Laden wrote in 2010.

Bin Laden also wished to target airplanes carrying General David Petraeus and
even US president Barack Obama, reasoning that an assassination would elevate an
"utterly unprepared" vice president Joe Biden into the presidency and plunge the
US into crisis.

But a US analysts' report released along with bin Laden's correspondence
describes him as upset over the inability of spin-off terrorist groups to win
public support for their cause, their unsuccessful media campaigns and poorly
planned plots that, in bin Laden's view, killed too many innocent Muslims.

Bin Laden's adviser Adam Gadahn urged him to disassociate their organisation
from the acts of al-Qaida's spin-off operation in Iraq, known as AQI, and bin
Laden told other terrorist groups not to repeat AQI's mistakes.

Nothing in the papers that were released points directly to al-Qaida
sympathisers in Pakistan's government, although presumably such references would
have remained classified. Bin Laden described "trusted Pakistani brothers" but
did not identify any Pakistani government or military officials who might have
been aware or complicit in his hiding in Abbottabad.

It was not immediately clear how many of bin Laden's documents the US was still
keeping secret. In a note published with the 175 pages in Arabic that were
released along with English translations, retired General John Abizaid said they
probably represent only a small fraction of materials taken from the compound in
the raid in which bin Laden died in May 2011. The US said the documents date
from September 2006 to April 2011.

The report said the Special Forces troops in the raid were trained to search the
home afterward for thumb drives, printed documents and what it described as
"pocket litter" that might produce leads to other terrorists.

"The end of the raid in Abbottabad was the beginning of a massive analytical
effort," it said.

It said the personal files showed that, during one of the most significant
manhunts in history, bin Laden was out of touch with the day-to-day operations
of various terrorist groups inspired by al-Qaida.

LOAD-DATE: May 4, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2012 The Irish News Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              297 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                         May 4, 2012 Friday 5:15 PM GMT

London 2012 Olympics: HMS Ocean squeezes through the Thames Barrier;
HMS Ocean, the Navy's largest warship, edges through the Thames Barrier to
Greenwich as it prepares to defend the London Olympics against any potential
terrorist attacks.

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 103 words


HMS Ocean will be docked at Greenwich where it will act as a launch pad for
eight Lynx helicopters and a base for Royal Marine snipers.

Their job will be to divert, or if necessary shoot at, aircraft which enter the
air exclusion zone.

But en route to Greenwich the warship which is 125ft wide had some difficulty
sailing through the Thames barrier with only around a 20ft margin of error each
side.

Video shot from a helicopter as the vessel made the manoeuvre showed it coming
very close to one of the barriers on one side.

HMS Ocean's arrival in East London is the final phase of the exercise named
Olympic Guardian.

LOAD-DATE: May 5, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTNS


                  Copyright 2012 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              298 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                         May 4, 2012 Friday 4:41 PM GMT

French CERN scientist jailed for plotting terror attacks;
A physicist based at the Cern laboratory in Geneva has been jailed for five
years for plotting a terror attack with an alleged member of al-Qaeda.

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 455 words


Adlene Hicheur, 35, was researching the origins of the universe at Cern, home of
the Large Hadron Collider, when he was arrested and detained in October 2009.

He had previously worked at the Rutherford Appleton Laboratory, a world-leading
research lab in Didcot, Oxfordshire.

Police moved in after intercepting emails between Hicheur and Mustapha Debchi,
thought to be a member of al-Qaeda's north African branch, in which the
scientist expressed his willingness to "work in a unit becoming active in
France".

Hicheur reportedly declined an offer to carry out a suicide bombing, but
discussed "possible objectives in Europe and particularly in France" including a
possible attack on a barracks at Cran-Gevrier, 20 miles from Cern.

Magistrates said the exchange of 35 messages "crossed the line of simple debate
of political or religious ideas to enter the sphere of terrorist violence."

Hicheur "knowingly agreed with Mustapha Debchi to set up an operational cell
ready to carry out terrorist acts in Europe and in France," they added.

Security service became suspicious of Hicheur after a statement from al-Qaeda in
the Islamic Maghreb (AQIM), the Algerian terror group, was sent to President
Nicolas Sarkozy in early 2008.

Surveillance was carried out on a number of email accounts including Hicheur's,
and when police searched his parents' house they uncovered al-Qaeda and Islamist
militant literature.

During his trial in March, prosecutors described the defendant as a "budding
terrorist" and "a man who had everything going for him ... but just got led
astray in a radical jihadist Islam."

Algerian-born Hicheur told the court he had been going through a "turbulent"
period of life and was in an impaired physical and psychological state when he
wrote the emails while on sick leave for a slipped disc.

He admitted reading jihadist websites but denied intending to carry out any
attacks, and claimed he had been the victim of overly strict French anti-terror
laws.

His lawyer called the verdict "scandalous", claiming that prosecutors had
attempted to "demonise" his client and turn him into "France's most dangerous
terrorist".

The defence was not helped by the timing of the trial which came a week after
seven people died in a terror attack on the French cities of Toulouse and
Montauban, they added.

Hicheur, who has already spent two and a half years behind bars while awaiting
trial, was told he could have been sentenced to up to 10 years in prison but he
received just five years with a sixth suspended.

Lawyers said he had not decided whether to appeal the sentence but added that if
he chooses not to, then with good behaviour he could be free "rather quickly".

Sources: AFP; AP

LOAD-DATE: May 5, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTNS


                  Copyright 2012 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              299 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                         May 4, 2012 Friday 3:23 PM GMT

French CERN scientist jailed for plotting terror attacks;
A Franco-Algerian nuclear physicist who worked at CERN, the site of the Large
Hadron Collider, has been sentenced to five years in jail, for plotting terror
attacks in France.

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 359 words


Adlene Hicheur, a 35-year-old researcher studying the universe's birth - the Big
Bang - at the European Organisation for Nuclear Research (CERN), was arrested in
October 2009 after intercepting his emails.

His father embraced him in the Paris court room before he was taken away to
serve his term in prison. Hicheur has already spent two-and-a-half years in jail
while awaiting trial. One of the years was suspended.

Hicheur admitted at the start of his trial in late March that he was going
through a "turbulent" time when he wrote the mails but denied he intended to
carry out attacks.

During the trial, prosecutors focused on emails between Hicheur and an alleged
al-Qaeda contact.

Hicheur told the court the emails were written while his "physical and
psychological state" was impaired while he was on sick leave for a slipped disc.

Following Hicheur's arrest at his parents' home near CERN, the research
institute which lies on the Franco-Swiss border northwest of Geneva, police
discovered a trove of al-Qaeda and Islamist militant literature.

France's                      DCRI domestic intelligence agency's suspicions
were raised after a statement from al-Qaeda in the Islamic Maghreb (AQIM), the
group's North African branch, was sent to President Nicolas Sarkozy's Elysee
Palace in early 2008.

Following the message police carried out surveillance on several email accounts
including Hicheur's and his exchanges with Mustapha Debchi, an alleged AQIM
representative living in Algeria.

In the emails Hicheur suggested "possible objectives in Europe and particularly
in France", mentioning for example a French military base at Cran-Gevrier, close
to CERN.

Asked by Debchi if he was "prepared to work in a unit becoming active in
France," Hicheur replied: "The answer is of course YES".

Magistrates investigating the case said the exchanges "crossed the line of
simple debate of political or religious ideas to enter the sphere of terrorist
violence."

They say the accused "knowingly agreed with Mustapha Debchi to set up an
operational cell ready to carry out terrorist acts in Europe and in France."

Source: AFP

LOAD-DATE: May 5, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTNS


                  Copyright 2012 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              300 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                                The Western Mail

                               May 4, 2012 Friday
                                 First Edition

Bin Laden kept on plotting new terrorist attacks on US

BYLINE: MIKE JONES

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 789 words


LETTERS from Osama bin Laden's last hideout show him worrying about mistakes
made by his terror network and the need to regain the trust of potential Muslim
supporters. He was plotting new attacks on the US right up until he was killed
by special forces last year.

A selection of documents seized in last year's raid on bin Laden's Pakistan
house was posted online yesterday by the US Army's Combating Terrorism Centre.

The documents show dark days for al Qaeda and its hunkered-down leader after
years of attacks by the United States and what bin Laden saw as bumbling within
his own organisation and its terrorist allies.

"I plan to release a statement that we are starting a new phase to correct [the
mistakes] we made," bin Laden wrote in 2010. "In doing so, we shall reclaim, God
willing, the trust of a large segment of those who lost their trust in the
jihadis."

Until the end, bin Laden remained focused on attacking Americans and coming up
with plots, however improbable, to kill US leaders.

He wished especially to target airplanes carrying General David Petraeus and
even President Barack Obama, reasoning that an assassination would elevate an
"utterly unprepared" Vice President Joe Biden into the presidency and plunge the
US into crisis.

But a US analysts' report released along with bin Laden's correspondence
describes him as upset over the inability of spin-off terrorist groups to win
public support for their cause, their unsuccessful media campaigns and poorly
planned plots that, in bin Laden's view, killed too many innocent Muslims.

Bin Laden adviser Adam Gadahn urged him to disassociate their organisation from
the acts of al Qaeda's spin-off operation in Iraq, known as AQI, and bin Laden
told other terrorist groups not to repeat AQI's mistakes.

The correspondence includes letters by then-second-in-command Abu Yahya al-Libi,
taking Pakistani offshoot Tehrik-e-Taliban Pakistan to task over its
indiscriminate attacks on Muslims. The al Qaeda leadership "threatened to take
public measures unless we see from you serious and immediate practical and clear
steps towards reforming [your ways] and dissociating yourself from these vile
mistakes that violate Islamic Law," al-Libi wrote.

And bin Laden warned the leader of Yemeni AQAP, Nasir al-Wuhayshi, against
attempting a takeover of Yemen to establish an Islamic state, instead saying he
should "refocus his efforts on attacking the United States".

Bin Laden also seemed uninterested in recognising Somali-based al-Shabab when
the group pledged loyalty to him because he thought its leaders were poor
governors of the areas they controlled and were too strict with their
administration of Islamic penalties, like cutting off the hands of thieves.

The US said the letters reflect al Qaeda's relationship with Iran - a point of
deep interest to the US government - as "not one of alliance, but of indirect
and unpleasant negotiations" over some al-Qaeda terrorists and their families
who were imprisoned in Iran.

Nothing in the papers that were released points directly to al-Qaeda
sympathisers in Pakistan's government, although presumably such references would
have remained classified. Bin Laden described "trusted Pakistani brothers" but
did not identify any Pakistani government or military officials who might have
been aware or complicit in his hiding in Abbottabad.

It was not immediately clear how many of bin Laden's documents the US was still
keeping secret. In a note published with the 175 pages in Arabic that were
released along with English translations, retired General John Abizaid said they
probably represent only a small fraction of materials taken from the compound in
the US raid that tracked down and killed bin Laden in May 2011. The US said the
documents span September 2006 to April 2011.

Bin Laden was proud of the security measures that kept his family safe for many
years, the report said.

It said bin Laden boasted that his family "adhered to such strict measures,
precluding his children from playing outdoors without the supervision of an
adult who could keep their voices down."

The report said the Special Forces troops in the bin Laden raid were trained to
search the home afterward for thumb drives, printed documents and what it
described as "pocket litter" that might produce leads to other terrorists. "The
end of the raid in Abbottabad was the beginning of a massive analytical effort,"
it said.

It said the personal files showed that, during one of the most significant
manhunts in history, bin Laden was out of touch with the day-to-day operations
of various terrorist groups inspired by al Qaeda.

He was "not in sync on the operational level with its so-called affiliates,"
researchers wrote.

LOAD-DATE: May 4, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: wm


                    Copyright 2012 Western Mail and Echo Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                              301 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring Middle East - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                              May 5, 2012 Saturday

Syrian "terrorist groups" carry out attacks, wound civilians - state agency

LENGTH: 410 words


Text of report in English by state-run Syrian news agency SANA website;
subheadings as published

["Armed Terrorist Groups Open Fire, Detonate Explosive Charges, Wounding Several
Citizens" - SANA Headline]

Provinces, 4 May (SANA) - The armed terrorist groups continued attacking
citizens and law-enforcement personnel in several areas.

An explosive charge was detonated by an armed terrorist group in Al-Sabuniyya
Roundabout in Hamah, causing the injury of citizen Riyad Khaled Laila.

Authorities in Hamah also found the corpse of Shaykh Mahmud Khalid Darwish in
al-Salamyyah area after being kidnapped by an armed terrorist group few days
earlier.

In Idlib, engineering units dismantled two explosive devices, with 100 kg weight
each, planted on a railway in Bishmaroun area.

In Al-Shajara area in Dar'a Countryside, armed terrorists opened fire on a car,
causing the injury of its driver Mohammad Khair al-Yassen Abu Sa'ifan and his
wife.

Law-enforcement Member Martyred, 4 Injured in Explosive Device Blast in Aleppo

A law-enforcement member was martyred from wounds he sustained in a blast of
improvised explosive device which targeted a law-enforcement patrol in the old
Syriac neighbourhood in Aleppo province.

SANA reporter said that the explosive device blast, carried out by an armed
terrorist group, caused the injury of corporal Ammar Mashhour al-Khalil who died
today, while four of his colleagues are being hospitalized.

75-kg Explosive Device Dismantled in Dayr al-Zawr

In Dayr al-Zawr, the military engineering units dismantled an explosive device
planted by an armed terrorist group between the Mosque of Anwar al-Rahman and
the Military Hospital in the city.

A source at the province told SANA correspondent that the explosive device
weighs 75 kg, ready for remote detonation.

Psychologically Ill Man Kills His Wife, Five Children and Commits Suicide

In Homs province, a citizen shot dead his wife, four sons and daughter and then
killed himself in his house in al-Musfat area in al-Insha'at neighbourhood in
the city.

SANA reporter quoted a source at the Police Command in the province as saying
that the citizen Ammar Ismael al-Abrash shot his wife Nisreen al-Atrash and his
sons Yasir, Samir, Thair and Abu Bakr and daughter Haya causing their immediate
death.

The source added that the husband's relatives and neighbours affirmed that he
was psychologically ill and suffered from schizophrenia.

Source: SANA news agency website, Damascus in English 4 May 12

LOAD-DATE: May 5, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2012 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              302 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                   The Mirror

                              May 5, 2012 Saturday
                                  Eire Edition

CHEETAH TERROR;
'TAME' BIG CATS ATTACK TOURIST, 60

BYLINE: ADRIAN SHAW

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 24

LENGTH: 233 words


TWO raging cheetahs savage a terrified tourist at a South African game reserve.

Violet D'Mello, 60, was attacked in an enclosure where visitors are taken by a
guide to stroke a pair of "tame" big cats for EUR5.

She played dead as one mauled her head, legs and stomach while the other tore at
her face in the horrifying three-minute ordeal.

Violet, who doctors say was lucky to escape alive, said: "It was absolutely
terrifying. It was only as I got up that I realised how badly hurt I was. I was
bleeding profusely and my head was agony."

Her husband Archie had taken Violet for a month-long tour of South Africa for
her 60th birthday.

The 64-year-old, who was taking photos when the cheetahs pounced last Saturday,
said: "It was frantic, a real melee. I couldn't do anything and the guide didn't
have a stick."

Eventually a receptionist got a stick, which the guide used to chase off the
cats at the Kragga Kamma game reserve near Port Elizabeth.

Violet received first aid before she was taken to hospital, where wounds to her
face, head, stomach and legs were treated.

The couple from Aberdeen are continuing their holiday. Archie said: "We're very
angry - we were told it was safe."

A family with excitable kids were in the enclosure at the time - and the park
manager reckons this may have upset the cheetahs.

Mike Cantor said: "It's unfortunate but this was a freak incident." The
enclosure is now shut.

LOAD-DATE: May 5, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: BEFORE J Stroking cat PAINJ Cheetah chews and claws MAULED 3 Bite to
head HORROR Z Blood runs down Violet's neck as two cats pounce

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                            Copyright 2012 MGN Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              303 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                       May 5, 2012 Saturday 11:02 PM GMT

9/11 suspects defiant as US court attempts to begin trial proceedings;
Khalid Sheikh Mohammed and four others accused of planning the 9/11 terrorist
attacks have defiantly refused to take part in a disorderly court hearing where
they were due to be charged with 2,976 counts of murder.

BYLINE: By Philip Sherwell in Fort Meade

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 2006 words


He has previously chosen to brag about his role as the mastermind of the worst
terrorist atrocity in history.

But yesterday, Khalid Sheikh Mohammed sat mutely in his chair in a courtroom in
the Guantanamo US naval base and refused to respond to a judge's questions at
the arraignment of five men accused of the September 11 terrorist attacks.

The co-accused staged a show of silent defiance in a rocky start to the first
court hearing of what is being described as the "trial of the century".

Walid bin Attash initially sat slumped in his chair in seat-belt type restraints
after resisting attempts to bring him to court from his cell. He was later
released from the shackles, on telling his lawyer that he would not disrupt the
hearing.

And proceedings at the military tribunal were halted when a third defendant,
Ramzi bin al-Shibh, went through a series of elaborate prayer rituals, kneeling
down next to his desk on a mat.

It was the first public appearance in more than three years for Mohammed, the
self-confessed architect of the worst act of terrorism the world has witnessed,
and his four alleged co-conspirators. The five men face the death penalty for
2,976 individual counts of murder.

Mohammed stroked his straggly, thick beard, grey when last seen, but now tinged
heavily reddish-brown with henna, yet showed no emotion as he stared ahead
blankly or looked down at notes on his desk. He was wearing white robes, issued
by the military authorities, and a white cap.

The five removed earphones carrying Arabic translation and indicated they would
not co-operate with the proceedings, to the exasperation of Col James Pohl, the
military judge. He also scolded defence lawyers who attempted to raise the men's
complaints about their treatment at the Guantanamo detention centre.

Much of the first hour was bogged down in arguments about translation. Even the
simultaneous interpreters complained at one stage about being asked to translate
when the judge and defence lawyers were speaking at the same time.

The five men ignored the judge as he asked them if they accepted their defence
team - a combination of military lawyers and civilian attorneys who specialise
in fighting death penalty cases.

"Accused refuses to answer," Col Pohl said repeatedly for the court record after
being met with silence.

He was expected later to ask the defence lawyers if they wished to waive the
right to have read the full 123-page charge sheet - including more than 60 pages
listing the names of the dead.

He was also due to ask the defendants whether they wanted to plead guilty, not
guilty or to reserve their plea. But the legal stalemate over procedural issues
and motions of complaint by the defence could mean that phase would be held over
until another hearing.

The defence lawyers were turned down in their requests to raise the men's
complaints about their treatment, and that they were prevented from wearing
civilian clothes of their choice.

"I believe Mr Mohammed will decline to address the court. I believe he's deeply
concerned about the fairness of the proceedings," said his civilian lawyer,
David Nevin.

"The reason that he is not putting the earphones on is because of the torture
that was inflicted upon him."

Lawyers have previously been told that they cannot discuss the accusations of
torture or the activities of the CIA, whose agents interrogated Mohammed using
waterboarding - simulated drowning - 183 times, according to a US federal
report.

Col Pohl warned that he would not permit defendants to block the hearing and
would continue without Mohammed's participation. "One cannot choose not to
participate and frustrate the normal course of business," he said.

Later, Mohammed put on his spectacles and turned his chair around to watch and
listen intently as his lawyer questioned Col Pohl about his credentials and
experience, including asking several times about issues of torture.

Mr Nevin asked whether his client's "treatment during his incarceration, which
consisted of torture, is appropriate mitigation" to lessen his possible
punishment. Col Pohl declined to be drawn on questions of mitigation or on his
views of interrogation techniques, saying that he would implement the law as it
stands.

Mr Nevin also asked whether he "has any experience with the issue of torture of
prisoners?" Col Pohl did not use the word torture, but said he had been involved
in detainee abuse cases after the Abu Ghraib scandal, for which several soldiers
were prosecuted for abusing Iraqi prisoners.

The start of the hearing was delayed as bin Attash had to be forced by guards
from his cell and carried, strapped into a chair, along corridors to the
specially built courtroom in a hangar-style structure.

Cheryl Bormann, a civilian attorney for bin Attash, wore a black hijab and long
black robe and told the court that the treatment of her client at Guantanamo had
interfered with his ability to participate in the proceedings. "These men have
been mistreated," she said.

She asked the judge to order other women in court to cover themselves up, saying
it was wrong that otherwise the defendants would be "forced to not look at the
prosecution for fear of committing a sin under their faith".

The judge said that until the question of the men's legal representation was
settled, the attorneys had no standing to make motions concerning the
defendants' treatment. But the defendants still refused to answer the judge's
questions. The only one of the accused to speak during the morning session was
al-Shibh, who interrupted a testy exchange between the judge and a lawyer with
an outburst about Muammar Gaddafi, the former Libyan dictator.

When Col Pohl told him to be quiet, he continued in broken English: "Maybe they
will kill me and say I committed suicide. Maybe you are not going to see me any
more. This is the way that we are treated in this camp."

The otherwise silent protest was in marked contrast to the last time that the
defendants appeared in court in the long-stalled legal process in December 2008
when Mohammed tried to confess and plead guilty and declared his desire to be a
martyr.

He revelled in his role as the September 11 ringleader, boasting that he was
responsible for the attacks "from A to Z" and signing court documents as "KSM",
the initials by which US law enforcement referred to him during their global
manhunt.

The charge sheet listed his meticulous eye for control and man management. With
his US college education, he coached the Arabic hijackers for their mission with
English phrases such as "If anyone moves, I'll kill you", then oversaw their
practice for cutting the throats of flight crew with craft knives by
slaughtering sheep and goats.

The attacks that the five are accused of planning, organising and financing
struck at the heart of America. They destroyed the twin towers of the World
Trade Centre in New York, the symbol of the country's financial strength; hit
the Pentagon, its military hub; and were only thwarted in their plan to attack
its political heart - the White House or more likely Congress's offices - when
passengers brought down Flight 93 in a Pennsylvania field.

For the relatives of those killed on September 11, it was a bittersweet day as -
more than a decade since the attacks and nine years since Mohammed was captured
in Pakistan - the final steps towards justice for the accused began.

Five family members attended the hearing in Guantanamo; dozens of others watched
the proceedings on a live video-stream at four US military bases in the
north-east of the US, including Fort Meade, a sprawling army installation in
Maryland that is home to the US Cyber Command and the National Security Agency.

Relatives at Guantanamo said they were grateful for the chance to see a case
they believe has been delayed too long.

Cliff Russell, whose brother Stephen, a fireman, died at the twin towers, said
he hoped the case would end with the death penalty. "I'm not looking forward to
ending someone else's life and taking satisfaction in it," he said.

"But it's the most disgusting, hateful, awful thing I ever could think of if you
think about what was perpetrated."

Suzanne Sisolak of Brooklyn, whose husband Joseph was killed in his office in
the World Trade Centre's North Tower, said she was not concerned about the
outcome as long as the case moved forward. "They can put them in prison for
life. They can execute them," she said. "What I do care about is that this does
not happen again."

Maureen Basnicki, 61, whose husband Ken was attending a breakfast conference in
the Windows on the World restaurant on the 106th floor of the North Tower, flew
in from Canada to follow the hearing at the base cinema in Fort Hamilton in
Brooklyn.

"Part of me was trying to get a sense of justice and to understand why these men
were so full of hate that they would slaughter so many innocent civilians,
though I always doubted those questions would be answered for me," she said.

"But what was really important for me was to share this moment with other 9/11
family members. It is their support and solidarity that matters to me at this
time. I wanted to be with them this day."

The hearing dragged several hours past its scheduled finish, after the defence
lawyers' inquisition about the judge's records added to the delays caused by
their clients' recalcitrance.

At Fort Hamilton, Debra Burlingame, whose brother Charles was pilot of the
hijacked American Airlines Flight 77 that was flown into the Pentagon, said the
victims' families were "fed up" with the defence tactics that were "frustrating
but not surprising".

Earlier she had warned that the men wanted to die as martyrs, and were "proud of
committing the worst war crime of modern times".

"These men are just trying to mock the system by disrupting it," she said.
"Khalid Sheikh Mohammed has proudly admitted his role as mastermind of the
attacks but now is playing legal games.

"But we are drawing support and strength from each other as we observe this. We
lost family members in the attacks but we have gained a new family from our own
numbers."

She said the greatest outrage came when Miss Bormann asked the court to require
female members of the prosecution, who are serving military personnel, to wear
Islamic dress.

"These are the men who slaughtered our loved ones, but they are accusing the
court of being culturally insensitive and forcing them to sin, just for having
to look at female uniformed lawyers. It's outrageous."

Josh Meyer and Terry McDermott, co-authors of the recent book The Hunt for KSM,
say that from for more than a decade, he devoted himself entirely to terrorism,
admitting to involvement in more than 30 separate plots.

"KSM is a complex personality - charming, funny, smart, the kind of guy everyone
liked immediately," they wrote. "But he was also a stone-cold killer who seemed
to devise new plans for mass murder with every waking moment.

"There are still agents recruited by KSM on the loose, We might be dealing with
KSM-designed or inspired attacks for years. More generally, KSM is the prototype
of the modern, stateless enemy likely to haunt [the world] for decades to come."

After the 9-11 attacks, Mohammed hatched the plan for Richard Reid, the British
"shoe bomber", to blow up a plane en route from Paris to Miami and coordinated
the Bali nightclub bombings in 2002. He has also claimed responsibility in
interviews for beheading Daniel Pearl, the American journalist captured and
murdered in Karachi.

As the hearing began, critics reiterated their criticism of the military
commission system which Mr Obama had come into office promising to end.

"The victims of the horrific 9/11 attacks deserve justice, but using a tribunal
that allows coerced evidence will never be seen as fair," said Kenneth Roth,
Human Rights Watch's executive director, who attended the proceedings in
Guantánamo.

"By doing so, President Obama has both compromised prospects for a credible
trial and undermined inquiry into Bush-era interrogation practices. That is a
gift to terrorist recruiters and a danger to US security."

LOAD-DATE: May 5, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTNS


                  Copyright 2012 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              304 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                        May 5, 2012 Saturday 6:20 PM GMT

9-11 suspects defiant as US court attempts to begin trial proceedings;
Khalid Sheik Mohammed and four others accused of planning the 9-11 terrorist
attacks have defiantly refused to take part in a disorderly court hearing where
they were due to be charged with 2,976 counts of murder.

BYLINE: By Philip Sherwell in Fort Meade

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 1865 words


He has previously chosen to brag about his role as the mastermind of the worst
terrorist atrocity in history.

But Khalid Sheik Mohammed sat mutely in his chair in a courtroom in the
Guantánamo US naval base and refused to respond to a judge's questions at the
arraignment of five men accused of the September 11 terror attacks.

The co-accused staged a show of silent defiance in a rocky start to the first
court hearing of what is being described as the "trial of the century".

Walid bin Attash initially sat slumped in his chair in seat-belt type restraints
after resisting attempt to bring him to court from his cell. He was later
released from the shackles, on telling his lawyer that he would not disrupt the
hearing.

And proceedings at the military tribunal were halted when a third defendant,
Ramzi bin al-Shibh, went through a series elaborate prayer rituals, kneeling
down next to his desk on a mat.

It was the first public appearance in more than three years for Mohammed, the
self-confessed architect of the single greatest act of terrorism the world has
witnessed, and his four alleged co-conspirators. The five men face the death
penalty for 2,976 individual counts of murder.

Mohammed stroked his straggly thick beard, grey when last seen, but now tinged
heavily reddish-brown with henna, yet showed no emotion as he stared ahead
blankly or looked down at notes on his desk.

He was wearing white robes, issued by the military authorities, and a white cap.

The five removed earphones carrying Arabic translation and indicated they would
not co-operate with the proceedings, to the exasperation of Col James Pohl, the
military judge.

He also scolded defence lawyers who attempted to raise the men's complaints
about their treatment at the Guantánamo detention centre.

Much of the first hour was bogged down in arguments about interpretation. Even
the simultaneous interpreters complained at one stage about being asked to
translate when the judge and defence lawyers were speaking at the same time.

The five men ignored the judge as he asked them if they accepted their defence
team - a combination of military lawyers and civilian attorneys who specialise
in fighting death penalty cases.

"Accused refuses to answer," Col Pohl said repeatedly for the court record after
being met with silence.

He was expected later to ask the defence lawyers if they wished to waive the
right to have read the full 123-page charge sheet - including more than 60 pages
listing the names of the nearly 3,000 dead.

He was also due to ask the defendants whether they wanted to plead guilty, not
guilty or to reserve their plea. But the legal stalemate over procedural issues
and motions of complaint by the defence could mean that phase would be held over
until another hearing.

The defence lawyers were turned down in their requests to raise the men's
complaints about their treatment, and that they were prevented from wearing
civilian clothes of their choice.

"I believe Mr Mohammed will decline to address the court. I believe he's deeply
concerned about the fairness of the proceeding," said his civilian lawyer, David
Nevin.

"The reason that he is not putting the earphones on is because of the torture
that was inflicted upon him," he added. Lawyers have previously been told they
cannot discuss the accusations of torture or the activities of the CIA, whose
agents interrogated Mohammed using waterboarding - simulated drowning - 183
times, according to a US federal report.

Col Pohl gave warning that he would not permit defendants to block the hearing
and would continue without Mohammed's participation. "One cannot choose not to
participate and frustrate the normal course of business," he said.

The start of the hearing was delayed as bin Attash had to be forced by guards
from his cell to be led through a network of corridors to the
specially-constructed courtroom in a hangar-style structure on the dusty island
naval base on the edge of the Caribbean.

Cheryl Bormann, a civilian attorney for bin Attash, wore a black hijab and long
black robe and told the court that the treatment of her client at Guantánamo had
interfered with his ability to participate in the proceedings. "These men have
been mistreated," she said.

She asked the judge to order other women in court to cover themselves up, saying
it was wrong that otherwise the defendants would be "forced to not look at the
prosecution for fear of committing a sin under their faith".

The judge said that until the question of the men's legal representation was
settled, the attorneys had no standing to make motions concerning the
defendants' treatment. But the defendants still refused to answer the judge's
questions.

The only one of the accused to speak during the morning session was al-Shibh,
who interrupted a testy exchange between the judge and a lawyer with an outburst
about Muammar Gaddafi, the former Libyan dictator.

When Col Pohl told him to be quiet, he continued in broken English: "Maybe they
will kill me and say I committed suicide. Maybe you are not going to see me any
more. This is the way that we are treated in this camp."

The otherwise silent protest was in marked contrast to the last time that the
defendants appeared in court in the long-stalled legal process in December 2008
when Mohammed tried to confess and plead guilty and declared his desire to be a
martyr.

Then he revelled in his role as the 9/11 ringleader, boasting that he was
responsible for the attacks "from A to Z" and signing court documents as "KSM",
the initials by which US law enforcement referred to him during their global
manhunt.

The charge sheet listed his meticulous eye for control and man management. With
his US college education, he coached the Arabic hijackers for their mission with
English phrases such as "If anyone moves, I'll kill you", then oversaw their
practice for cutting the throats of flight crew with box-cutters by slaughtering
sheep and goats.

The attacks that the five are accused of planning, organising and financing
struck at the heart of America. They destroyed the twin towers of the World
Trade Centre in New York, the symbol of the country's financial strength; hit
the Pentagon, its military hub; and were only thwarted in their plan to attack
its political heart - the White House or more likely Congress's offices - when
passengers brought down Flight 93 in a Pennsylvania field en route to
Washington.

For the relatives of those killed on Sept 11, it was a bittersweet day as - more
than a decade since the attacks and nine years since Mohammed was captured in
Pakistan - the final steps toward justice for the accused got haltingly under
way.

Five family members attended the hearing in Guantánamo; dozens of others watched
the proceedings on a live video-stream at four US military bases in the
north-east of the US, including Fort Meade, a sprawling army installation in
Maryland that is home to the US Cyber Command and the National Security Agency.

Relatives at Guantánamo said they were grateful for the chance to see a case
they believe has been delayed too long.

Cliff Russell, whose firefighter brother Stephen died at Ground Zero, said he
hoped the case would end with the death penalty.

"I'm not looking forward to ending someone else's life and taking satisfaction
in it, " he said. "But it's the most disgusting, hateful, awful thing I ever
could think of if you think about what was perpetrated."

Suzanne Sisolak of Brooklyn, whose husband Joseph was killed in his office in
the World Trade Centre's North Tower, said she is not concerned about the
ultimate outcome as long as the case moves forward.

"They can put them in prison for life. They can execute them," she said. "What I
do care about is that this does not happen again."

Maureen Basnicki, 61, whose husband Ken was attending a breakfast conference in
the Windows on the World restaurant on the 106th floor of the North Tower, flew
in from Canada to follow the hearing at the base cinema in Fort Hamilton in
Brooklyn.

"Part of me was trying to get a sense of justice and to understand why these men
were so full of hate that they would slaughter so many innocent civilians,
though I always doubted those questions would be answered for me," she told The
Sunday Telegraph.

"But what was really important for me was to share this moment with other 9/11
family members. It is their support and solidarity that matters to me at this
time. I wanted to be with them this day."

Alongside her was her friend, Debra Burlingame, whose brother Charles was pilot
of the hijacked American Airlines Flight 77 that was flown into the Pentagon

"This is the start of the process of bringing justice for my brother, his crew
and passengers and all the others who were killed and injured that day," she
said. "I wanted to be here to be a witness for my brother.

"I am a former attorney and I have attended a lot of trials, but this is really
an extraordinary situation. Most defendants plead not guilty because they want
to escape justice, but here are men who want to die as martyrs for Allah. They
are proud of committing the worst war crime of modern times."

The attacks still cast a dark shadow across America, psychologically and
politically. Indeed, President Barack Obama was accused by his critics of
playing campaign politics last week when he released a video, narrated by his
Democrat predecessor Bill Clinton, highlighting the mission a year ago that
killed Osama bin Laden, the al-Qaeda chief.

But while Osama bin Laden commanded the terror network, it was Mohammed who was
its chief strategist.

Josh Meyer and Terry McDermott, co-authors of the recent book The Hunt for KSM,
say that from for more than a decade, he devoted himself entirely to terrorism,
admitting to involvement in more than 30 separate plots.

"KSM is a complex personality - charming, funny, smart, the kind of guy everyone
liked immediately," they wrote. "But he was also a stone-cold killer who seemed
to devise new plans for mass murder with every waking moment.

"There are still agents recruited by KSM on the loose, We might be dealing with
KSM-designed or inspired attacks for years. More generally, KSM is the prototype
of the modern, stateless enemy likely to haunt [the world] for decades to come."

After the 9-11 attacks, Mohammed hatched the plan for Richard Reid, the British
"shoe bomber", to blow up a plane en route from Paris to Miami and coordinated
the Bali nightclub bombings in 2002. He has also claimed responsibility in
interviews for beheading Daniel Pearl, the American journalist captured and
murdered in Karachi.

As the hearing began, critics reiterated their criticism of the military
commission system which Mr Obama had come into office promising to end.

"The victims of the horrific 9/11 attacks deserve justice, but using a tribunal
that allows coerced evidence will never be seen as fair," said Kenneth Roth,
Human Rights Watch's executive director, who attended the proceedings in
Guantánamo.

"By doing so, President Obama has both compromised prospects for a credible
trial and undermined inquiry into Bush-era interrogation practices. That is a
gift to terrorist recruiters and a danger to US security."

LOAD-DATE: May 5, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTNS


                  Copyright 2012 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              305 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                         May 6, 2012 Sunday 1:10 AM GMT

9/11 suspects defiant as US court attempts to begin trial proceedings;
Khalid Sheikh Mohammed and four others accused of planning the 9/11 terrorist
attacks have defiantly refused to take part in a disorderly court hearing where
they were due to be charged with 2,976 counts of murder.

BYLINE: By Philip Sherwell in Fort Meade

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 2017 words


He has previously chosen to brag about his role as the mastermind of the worst
terrorist atrocity in history.

But yesterday, Khalid Sheikh Mohammed sat mutely in his chair in a courtroom in
the Guantanamo US naval base and refused to respond to a judge's questions at
the arraignment of five men accused of the September 11 terrorist attacks.

The co-accused staged a show of silent defiance in a rocky start to the first
court hearing of what is being described as the "trial of the century".

Walid bin Attash initially sat slumped in his chair in seat-belt type restraints
after resisting attempts to bring him to court from his cell. He was later
released from the shackles, on telling his lawyer that he would not disrupt the
hearing. Proceedings at the military tribunal were halted when a third
defendant, Ramzi bin al-Shibh, went through a series of elaborate prayer
rituals, kneeling down next to his desk on a mat.

It was the first public appearance in more than three years for Mohammed, the
self-confessed architect of the worst act of terrorism the world has witnessed,
and his four alleged co-conspirators. The five men face the death penalty for
2,976 individual counts of murder.

Mohammed stroked his straggly, thick beard, grey when last seen, but now tinged
heavily reddish-brown with henna, yet showed no emotion as he stared ahead
blankly or looked down at notes on his desk. He was wearing white robes, issued
by the military authorities, and a white cap.

The five removed earphones carrying Arabic translation and indicated they would
not co-operate with the proceedings, to the exasperation of Col James Pohl, the
military judge. He also scolded defence lawyers who attempted to raise the men's
complaints about their treatment at the Guantanamo detention centre.

Much of the first hour was bogged down in arguments about translation. Even the
simultaneous interpreters complained at one stage about being asked to translate
when the judge and defence lawyers were speaking at the same time.

The five men ignored the judge as he asked them if they accepted their defence
team - a combination of military lawyers and civilian attorneys who specialise
in fighting death penalty cases.

"Accused refuses to answer," Col Pohl said repeatedly for the court record after
being met with silence.

The defence lawyers were turned down in their requests to raise the men's
complaints about their treatment, and that they were prevented from wearing
civilian clothes of their choice.

"I believe Mr Mohammed will decline to address the court. I believe he's deeply
concerned about the fairness of the proceedings," said his civilian lawyer,
David Nevin.

"The reason that he is not putting the earphones on is because of the torture
that was inflicted upon him."

Lawyers have previously been told that they cannot discuss the accusations of
torture or the activities of the CIA, whose agents interrogated Mohammed using
waterboarding - simulated drowning - 183 times, according to a US federal
report.

Col Pohl warned that he would not permit defendants to block the hearing and
would continue without Mohammed's participation. "One cannot choose not to
participate and frustrate the normal course of business."

Later, Mohammed put on his spectacles and turned his chair around to watch and
listen as his lawyer questioned Col Pohl about his credentials and experience,
including asking several times about issues of torture.

Mr Nevin asked whether his client's "treatment during his incarceration, which
consisted of torture, is appropriate mitigation" to lessen his possible
punishment. Col Pohl declined to be drawn on questions of mitigation or on his
views of interrogation techniques, saying that he would implement the law as it
stands.

Mr Nevin also asked whether he "has any experience with the issue of torture of
prisoners?" Col Pohl did not use the word torture, but said he had been involved
in detainee abuse cases after the Abu Ghraib scandal, for which several soldiers
were prosecuted for abusing Iraqi prisoners.

The start of the hearing was delayed as bin Attash had to be forced by guards
from his cell and carried, strapped into a chair, along corridors to the
specially built courtroom in a hangar-style structure.

Cheryl Bormann, a civilian attorney for bin Attash, wore a black hijab and long
black robe and told the court that the treatment of her client at Guantanamo had
interfered with his ability to participate in the proceedings. "These men have
been mistreated," she said.

She asked the judge to order other women in court to cover themselves up, saying
it was wrong that otherwise the defendants would be "forced to not look at the
prosecution for fear of committing a sin under their faith".

The judge said that until the question of the men's legal representation was
settled, the attorneys had no standing to make motions concerning the
defendants' treatment. But the defendants still refused to answer the judge's
questions.

In a moment of drama, Miss Bormann said her client had been forcibly dragged
from his cell to the hearing and had scars on his arms. Bin Attash tried to
remove his shirt but was ordered by the judge to keep it on.

The only one of the accused to speak was al-Shibh, who interrupted a testy
exchange between the judge and a lawyer with an outburst about Muammar Gaddafi,
the former Libyan dictator. When Col Pohl told him to be quiet, he continued in
broken English: "Maybe they will kill me and say I committed suicide. Maybe you
are not going to see me any more. This is the way that we are treated in this
camp."

Nine hours after the arraignment started, the judge finally asked if the accused
were pleading guilty or not guilty, only for their lawyers to say that they were
deferring their pleas - a tactic that allows them to pursue their legal
objections to the tribunal.

In another delaying tactic, the counsel for bin Attash said that his client
would like to hear the charge sheet of more than 100 pages read aloud to the
tribunal.

The defence attorneys also said that they would not be ready for a trial for at
least a year, after prosecutors proposed a start date of August.

The otherwise silent protest was in marked contrast to the last time that the
defendants appeared in court in the long-stalled legal process in December 2008
when Mohammed tried to confess and plead guilty and declared his desire to be a
martyr.

He revelled in his role as the September 11 ringleader, boasting that he was
responsible for the attacks "from A to Z" and signing court documents as "KSM",
the initials by which US law enforcement referred to him during their global
manhunt.

The charge sheet listed his meticulous eye for control and man management. With
his US college education, he coached the Arabic hijackers for their mission with
English phrases such as "If anyone moves, I'll kill you", then oversaw their
practice for cutting the throats of flight crew with craft knives by
slaughtering sheep and goats.

The attacks that the five are accused of planning, organising and financing
struck at the heart of America. They destroyed the twin towers of the World
Trade Centre in New York, the symbol of the country's financial strength; hit
the Pentagon, its military hub; and were only thwarted in their plan to attack
its political heart - the White House or more likely Congress's offices - when
passengers brought down Flight 93 in a Pennsylvania field.

For the relatives of those killed on September 11, it was a bittersweet day as -
more than a decade since the attacks and nine years since Mohammed was captured
in Pakistan - the final steps towards justice for the accused began.

Five family members attended the hearing in Guantanamo; dozens of others watched
the proceedings on a live video-stream at four US military bases in the
north-east of the US, including Fort Meade, a sprawling army installation in
Maryland that is home to the US Cyber Command and the National Security Agency.

Cliff Russell, whose brother Stephen, a fireman, died at the twin towers, said
he hoped the case would end with the death penalty. "I'm not looking forward to
ending someone else's life and taking satisfaction in it," he said.

"But it's the most disgusting, hateful, awful thing I ever could think of if you
think about what was perpetrated."

Suzanne Sisolak, from Brooklyn, whose husband Joseph was killed in his office in
the World Trade Centre's North Tower, said she was not concerned about the
outcome as long as the case moved forward. "They can put them in prison for
life. They can

execute them," she said. "What I do care about is that this does not happen
again."

Maureen Basnicki, 61, whose husband Ken was attending a breakfast conference in
the Windows on the World restaurant on the 106th floor of the North Tower, flew
in from Canada to follow the hearing at the base cinema in Fort Hamilton in
Brooklyn.

"Part of me was trying to get a sense of justice and to understand why these men
were so full of hate that they would slaughter so many innocent civilians,
though I always doubted those questions would be answered for me," she said.

"But what was really important for me was to share this moment with other 9/11

family members. It is their support and solidarity that matters to me at this
time. I wanted to be with them this day."

The hearing dragged several hours past its scheduled finish, after the defence
lawyers' inquisition of the judge's records added to the delays caused by their
clients' recalcitrance.

At Fort Hamilton, Debra Burlingame, whose brother Charles was pilot of the
hijacked American Airlines Flight 77 that was flown into the Pentagon, said the
victims' families were fed up with the defence tactics that were "frustrating
but not surprising". She added: "These men are just trying to mock the system by
disrupting it.

"Khalid Sheikh Mohammed has proudly admitted his role as mastermind of the
attacks but now is playing legal games. But we are drawing support and strength
from each other as we observe this. We lost family members in the attacks but we
have gained a new family from our own numbers."

She said the greatest affront came when Miss Bormann asked the court to require
female members of the prosecution, who are serving military personnel, to wear
Islamic dress. "These are the men who slaughtered our loved ones, but they are
accusing the court of being culturally insensitive and forcing them to sin, just
for having to look at female uniformed lawyers. It's outrageous."

Josh Meyer and Terry McDermott, co-authors of the recent book The Hunt for KSM,
say that from for more than a decade, he devoted himself entirely to terrorism,
admitting to involvement in more than 30 separate plots.

"KSM is a complex personality - charming, funny, smart, the kind of guy everyone
liked immediately," they wrote. "But he was also a stone-cold killer who seemed
to devise new plans for mass murder with every waking moment.

"There are still agents recruited by KSM on the loose, We might be dealing with
KSM-designed or inspired attacks for years. More generally, KSM is the prototype
of the modern, stateless enemy likely to haunt [the world] for decades to come."

After the 9-11 attacks, Mohammed hatched the plan for Richard Reid, the British
"shoe bomber", to blow up a plane en route from Paris to Miami and coordinated
the Bali nightclub bombings in 2002. He has also claimed responsibility in
interviews for beheading Daniel Pearl, the American journalist captured and
murdered in Karachi.

As the hearing began, critics reiterated their criticism of the military
commission system which Mr Obama had come into office promising to end.

"The victims of the horrific 9/11 attacks deserve justice, but using a tribunal
that allows coerced evidence will never be seen as fair," said Kenneth Roth,
Human Rights Watch's executive director, who attended the proceedings in
Guantánamo.

"By doing so, President Obama has both compromised prospects for a credible
trial and undermined inquiry into Bush-era interrogation practices. That is a
gift to terrorist recruiters and a danger to US security."

LOAD-DATE: May 6, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTNS


                  Copyright 2012 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              306 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring Middle East - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                               May 7, 2012 Monday

Syrian "terrorists" said attack garage of private transport firm

LENGTH: 355 words


Text of report by H. Sabbagh published in English by state-run Syrian news
agency SANA website; subheadings as published

["Terrorists attack garage of private transport company in Damascus Countryside,
burn 32 buses"]

Provinces - An armed terrorist group on Sunday [6 May] attacked a garage
belonging to a private transport company in Zabdin area in Damascus Countryside,
setting fire to the buses parked in it and holding a guard, a driver and a
mechanic hostage.

A police source told SANA that at 2am on Sunday, terrorists burned 32 busses
belonging to Hasan Khalil's interior transport company, stealing the car of the
company's accountant, bus license plates and spare parts, tools, fire
extinguishers and a large amount of diesel fuel.

Authorities liberate 14 people abducted by terrorists four days ago

With the help of locals from Madaya area in Damascus Countryside, the
authorities liberated 14 people, 7 of them women, who had been abducted four
days ago by terrorists impersonating security personnel.

The terrorists had intercepted a microbus heading to Madaya with seven women and
three children on board along with an Iraqi family, forcing them to step out at
gunpoint then took them to an unknown location where they remained blindfolded
and tied up for four days.

Riman Mohammad, one of the liberated women, said that an armed group using three
cars stopped the microbus and forced them out at gunpoint, claiming to be
security personnel, then they took them to a house and placed them in a room,
where they realized from conversations they overheard and the questions the
gunmen posed that they're actually an armed group.

211 people involved in recent events turn themselves in

211 people who were misled into becoming involved in recent events yet didn't
shed any blood turned themselves in to the authorities in several governorates.

In Hama and its countryside, 185 people turned themselves in, as did 26 people
from Damascus Countryside and Aleppo.

The authorities released them after they pledged to refrain from bearing arms or
committing vandalism again.

Source: SANA news agency website, Damascus in English 7 May 12

LOAD-DATE: May 7, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2012 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              307 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                                   Daily Star

                               May 7, 2012 Monday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

TROOPS ON OLYMPICS TERROR ATTACK ALERT;
Top team to tackle anthrax air raids

BYLINE: HELENE PERKINS

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 282 words


CRACK troops have been secretly trained to deal with a poison terror attack from
the skies during the Olympics.

Army chiefs have warned a drone aircraft could dump anthrax or another lethal
substance on London.

Soldiers were sent to the Government's top-secret military research
establishment in Wiltshire for training to deal with anthrax. They wore
biochemical protection suits, gloves and masks during the exercises.

Lieutenant Colonel Brian Fahy warned: "An Unmanned Aerial Vehicle (UAV) can be
put in a backpack. "They come in all sorts of sizes and it's feasible they could
be filled with something noxious and flown by remote control.

"We have worked up a comprehensive plan to protect against the potential
hijacking of a commercial airliner down to slow-moving microlights or
radio-controlled planes." Surface-to-air missiles are being installed at six
London sites to shoot down aircraft in the Olympic "no-fly" zone.

But the Lieutenant Colonel said if a protester was flying a microlight near the
Olympic site they would not attack it.

Instead, they would scramble RAF helicopters with a sniper on board to check out
the threat. "It is the politicians who will decide whether we fire surface-toair
missiles at a potential threat," he said.

"It's a decision that I'm quite happy not to make. It will weigh very heavily."

But Defence Secretary Philip Hammond has said he is ready to order the shooting
down of aircraft if necessary.

Meanwhile half of London's courts will close down during the Olympics to avoid
travel chaos for victims, jurors and court staff. Eight suspected FA Cup ticket
touts were yesterday being held by police as part of a clampdown ahead of the
Games.

news@dailystar.co.uk

LOAD-DATE: May 7, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: ¦ GUN GUARD: Armed police patrol the Olympic Park yesterday. Right,
soldier in anti-biochemical gear
Picture: BIG PICTURES

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DST


                       Copyright 2012 Express Newspapers
                              All Rights Reserved

                              308 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                                 Scottish Star

                               May 7, 2012 Monday
                                   Edition 1;
                                    Scotland

TROOPS ON OLYMPICS TERROR ATTACK ALERT;
Top team to tackle anthrax air raids

BYLINE: HELENE PERKINS

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 282 words


CRACK troops have been secretly trained to deal with a poison terror attack from
the skies during the Olympics.

Army chiefs have warned a drone aircraft could dump anthrax or another lethal
substance on London.

Soldiers were sent to the Government's top-secret military research
establishment in Wiltshire for training to deal with anthrax. They wore
biochemical protection suits, gloves and masks during the exercises.

Lieutenant Colonel Brian Fahy warned: "An Unmanned Aerial Vehicle (UAV) can be
put in a backpack. "They come in all sorts of sizes and it's feasible they could
be filled with something noxious and flown by remote control.

"We have worked up a comprehensive plan to protect against the potential
hijacking of a commercial airliner down to slow-moving microlights or
radio-controlled planes." Surface-to-air missiles are being installed at six
London sites to shoot down aircraft in the Olympic "no-fly" zone.

But the Lieutenant Colonel said if a protester was flying a microlight near the
Olympic site they would not attack it.

Instead, they would scramble RAF helicopters with a sniper on board to check out
the threat. "It is the politicians who will decide whether we fire surface-toair
missiles at a potential threat," he said.

"It's a decision that I'm quite happy not to make. It will weigh very heavily."

But Defence Secretary Philip Hammond has said he is ready to order the shooting
down of aircraft if necessary.

Meanwhile half of London's courts will close down during the Olympics to avoid
travel chaos for victims, jurors and court staff. Eight suspected FA Cup ticket
touts were yesterday being held by police as part of a clampdown ahead of the
Games.

news@dailystar.co.uk

LOAD-DATE: May 7, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: ¦ GUN GUARD: Armed police patrol the Olympic Park yesterday. Right,
soldier in anti-biochemical gear
Picture: BIG PICTURES

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DSTscot


                       Copyright 2012 Express Newspapers
                              All Rights Reserved

                              309 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                            Evening Times (Glasgow)

                              May 8, 2012 Tuesday
                                   1 Edition

Drone attack kills al Qaida terror boss

BYLINE: NO BYLINE

SECTION: FOR; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 187 words


YEMEN: Al Qaida  militants attacked on a Yemeni army base in the south, killing
20 soldiers and capturing 25 just hours after a US drone strike killed a senior
figure in the terror network.

It was not immediately clear if the pre-dawn attack on the military base in
Abyan province was in retaliation for the death of Fahd al-Quso, a top al Qaida
leader.

The militants attacked the base both from the sea and by land, shooting troops
and making off with weapons after the attack.

Government forces later shelled militant positions elsewhere in Abyan, killing
16 militants, said officials.

Al-Quso, 37, was on the FBI s most wanted list, with a £3.1 million price on his
head. He was indicted in the US for his role in the 2000 bombing of the USS Cole
in the harbour of Aden, Yemen, in which 17 American sailors were killed and 39
injured.

Yemen has been waging an offensive on al Qaida, whose fighters took advantage of
the country s political turmoil during the past year to expand their hold in the
south.

The new Yemeni president, Abed Rabbo Mansour Hadi, has promised improved
co-operation with the US to combat the militants.

LOAD-DATE: May 8, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: * Fahd al-Quso was killed in drone attack

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: ET


                      Copyright 2012 Newsquest Media Group
                              All Rights Reserved

                              310 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                   MailOnline

                        May 8, 2012 Tuesday 9:00 PM GMT

Clinton's hard talk on terrorism attacks thrills India

BYLINE: DIPANJAN ROY CHAUDHURY

SECTION: INDIANEWS

LENGTH: 889 words


The US on Tuesday directed Pakistan to do more to ensure its territory is not
used as a launch pad for terrorism and stressed that it has 'reasons to believe
Hafiz Saeed was the principal architect of the Mumbai attacks'.

The over hour-long discussion between external affairs minister S.M. Krishna and
US secretary of state Hillary Clinton was described as a curtain-raiser for the
second round of strategic dialogue in Washington on June 13.

It included discussion on the issue of 26/11 Mumbai attacks and Pakistan's
lackadaisical response in bringing the perpetrators to justice discussed
threadbare in the backdrop of the $10 million bounty on Jamaat-ud- Dawa (JuD)
chief Saeed.

There is confusion in India over the exact purpose of the bounty and its
effectiveness in bringing Saeed to justice.

Appearing perturbed over a question on the futility of the US bounty, Clinton
clarified clarified, during a joint press conference with Krishna, that the
bounty on the JuD chief was an 'unmistakable message of solidarity' with India.

'As part of our 'reward for justice' programme, we have offered a $10 million
reward that could lead to arrest or conviction of Saeed in those (Mumbai)
attacks.

'Our offer demonstrates our seriousness in obtaining additional information
which can withstand judicial scrutiny and which leads to arrest and conviction
and brings the perpetrators and planners of the Mumbai attacks to justice,' she
said, while noting that it was also to raise visibility.

Clinton claimed the 'reward for justice' programme has been successful in the
past in bringing the guilty to justice.

Expressing similar sentiments, official sources said the programme has 'symbolic
value' in putting pressure on Islamabad to act against the LeT founder. India
remains livid that Pakistan has not detained Saeed despite handing over evidence
against him.

In fact, Islamabad's action against the 26/11 perpetrators will contribute in
deciding Prime Minister Manmohan Singh's trip to Pakistan later this year.

During Tuesday's meeting, the two sides discussed the status of their continuing
counter-terror cooperation and intelligence sharing, critical in combating
terror in the region, as New Delhi pushed Washington to prevail upon Islamabad
to act against terror infrastructure.

Next month's strategic dialogue will see these issues discussed in a detailed
fashion.

Explaining the nature of this cooperation, Krishna said, 'India and the US have
a strong cooperation in combating terrorism. In addition to sharing
intelligence, we have a counter-terrorism cooperation arrangement and homeland
security dialogue.

'We keep close contact in the fight against terror.' Underlining the uneasy
relationship with Pakistan, Clinton minced no words as she said: 'We look to
Pakistan to do more. It needs to make sure that its territory is not used as
launch pads for terrorist attacks anywhere, including inside Pakistan, because
the great unfortunate fact is that terrorists in Pakistan have killed more than
30,000 Pakistanis.'

Krishna tells Clinton Pakistan army derailing peace process

External affairs minister S.M. Krishna on Tuesday is rumoured to have told US
secretary of state Hillary Clinton that the Pakistan Army is derailing the peace
process between the neighbouring countries.

He is also believed to have told her that the Pakistan Army was behind the
cancellation of the commerce secretary-level talks this May.

According to the Indian assessment, while the civilian government in Pakistan
wanted the talks, it was the general headquarters in Rawalpindi that shot it
down. The talks would have paved way for the 'Most Favoured Nation' status being
accorded to India.

Cementing trade ties has remained the high point of the dialogue process between
the two sides and on his recent visit to India, Pakistan President Asif Ali
Zardari had also told Prime Minister Manmohan Singh that closer trade ties
should be a priority. But Pakistan Army chief General Ashfaq Parvez Kayani seems
to have torpedoed it.

He is believed to be not fully behind the peace process and even though the
civilian government in Pakistan wants to move forward on issues such as trade,
there is a confirmation that the army has applied the brakes on the proposal.

The candid remark came when Krishna and Clinton discussed the issue of terrorism
and shared their assessment on Pakistan. According to Krishna's assessment, the
Pakistan Army is providing tactical support to the dialogue owing to internal
compulsions and because of strained relationship with the US.

'It is not a strategic change in their position, but a tactical shift,' he is
learnt to have told Clinton. He has apparently asked the US to factor in
pressurising Pakistan on the issue of terrorism as it negotiates the new rules
of engagement.

Krishna told his US counterpart that there is no seriousness in Pakistan to
bring the perpetrators of 26/11 terror attacks to justice. As the two leaders
exchanged frank views, both agreed that the Haqqani network was being supported
by the Pakistan intelligence agency, the ISI, and was responsible for recent
terror attacks in Afghanistan.

They agreed on the need to strengthen their intelligence cooperation to tackle
the Haqqani network, which was posing a huge security challenge for Afghanistan.

LOAD-DATE: May 9, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDM


                   Copyright 2012 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              311 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                   MailOnline

                        May 8, 2012 Tuesday 12:51 PM GMT

Are there more underpants bombs out there? US officials fear fresh wave of plane
attacks after terror plot is foiled

BYLINE: ASSOCIATED PRESS

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 1589 words



     ·    Bomb plot mastermind believed to be killed in CIA drone attack on
          Sunday
     ·    Device believed to be absent of metal and 'undetectable'
     ·    Would-be bomber had not yet chosen a plane or a target
     ·    No immediate plans to beef up security at U.S. airports
     ·    Speculation decision to delay announcement that plot had been foiled
          was 'electioneering' by Barack Obama


Fears are growing that Al Qaeda's thwarted underpants bomb plot is just one of a
number of terrorist plans to bring down aeroplanes.

A senior law enforcement source said other devices, similar to the
'undetectable' one discovered this month in Yemen, could be ready to be deployed
by other would-be bombers.

He told the New York Times: 'If they built one, they probably built more. That's
the scary part.'

The startling admission comes as U.S. counter-terrorism officials said they
thought the mastermind of the latest underpants bomb plot was killed during a
CIA drone attack in Yemen on Sunday.

Fahd Mohammed Ahmed al-Quso, one of America's Most Wanted terrorists, wanted to
bring down a U.S.-bound jetliner with a new and improved 'undetectable' version
of the underwear bomb that failed to detonate aboard a jetliner over Detroit in
Christmas 2009.

The explosion was to be carried out, reports suggest, to mark the one year
anniversary of the killing of Osama bin Laden.

But the Yemen-based terrorist was killed by a missile fired by an unmanned CIA
drone as he stepped out of a vehicle in a remote valley in the south of Yemen.

Two counter-terrorism officials told the New York Daily News they believed
37-year-old al-Quso, who had a $5million bounty on his head, was the key
militant behind the plans.

Al-Quso was indicted in the U.S. for his role in the 2000 bombing of the USS
Cole in the harbour of Aden, Yemen, in which 17 American sailors were killed and
39 injured.

He was later believed to have replaced Anwar al-Awlaki as the Al Qaeda on the
Arabian Peninsula's head of external operations when the latter was killed in a
U.S. airstrike last year.

The FBI is now examining the latest bomb to see whether it could have passed
through airport security and brought down an aeroplane.

The device did not contain metal, meaning it probably could have passed through
an airport metal detector.

But it was not clear whether new body scanners used in many airports would have
detected it.

Senator Dianne Feinstein, of California, who heads the Senate Intelligence
Committee, said yesterday she had been briefed about an 'undetectable' device
that was 'going to be on a U.S.-bound airliner.'

There were no immediate plans to change security procedures at U.S. airports.

The would-be suicide bomber, based in Yemen and believed to be working for
al-Quso, had not yet picked a target or bought his plane tickets when the CIA
stepped in and seized the bomb, officials said.

New York Congressman Peter King, chairman of the Homeland Security Committee,
said counter-terrorism officials had said of the wannabe bomber: 'We don't have
to worry about him any more.'

He is alive, officials added, but they would not give any further details.

White House spokeswoman Caitlin Hayden said President Obama learned about the
plot in April and was assured the device posed no threat to the public.

'The president thanks all intelligence and counter-terrorism professionals
involved for their outstanding work and for serving with the extraordinary skill
and commitment that their enormous responsibilities demand,' Hayden said.

The operation unfolded even as the White House and Department of Homeland
Security assured the American public that they knew of no Al Qaeda plots against
the U.S. around the anniversary of bin Laden's death.

'We have no credible information that terrorist organisations, including Al
Qaeda, are plotting attacks in the U.S. to coincide with the anniversary of bin
Laden's death,' White House press secretary Jay Carney said on April 26.

On May 1, the Department of Homeland Security said, 'We have no indication of
any specific, credible threats or plots against the U.S. tied to the one-year
anniversary of bin Laden's death.'

The Associated Press learned about the thwarted plot last week but agreed to
White House and CIA requests not to publish it immediately because the sensitive
intelligence operation was still under way.

Once officials said those concerns were allayed, the Associated Press decided to
disclose the plot despite requests from the Obama administration to wait for an
official announcement.

The decision to delay the announcement has led to some speculation that Obama
was 'electioneering'. But this has been dismissed by his camp.

U.S. officials, who were briefed on the operation, insisted on anonymity to
discuss the case, which the U.S. has never officially acknowledged.

It's not clear who built the bomb, but, because of its sophistication and its
similarity to the Christmas bomb, authorities suspected it was the work of
master bomb maker Ibrahim Hassan al-Asiri.

Al-Asiri constructed the first underwear bomb and two others that Al Qaeda built
into printer cartridges and shipped to the U.S. on cargo planes in 2010.

Both of those bombs used a powerful industrial explosive. Both were nearly
successful.

Al-Asiri, of Saudi Arabia, was believed killed in a drone strike last year, but
Yemeni officials quickly denied his death.

The operation is an intelligence victory for the United States and a reminder of
Al Qaeda's ambitions, despite the death of bin Laden and other senior leaders.

Since the death of bin Laden in a daring U.S. Navy SEAL raid on his Pakistan
compound, the terror group is believed to have shifted its interests from
Afghanistan to Yemen.

The terror group has taken advantage of Yemen's political turmoil in the past
year, gaining territory and strength.

It has set up terrorist camps and, in some areas, even operates as a de facto
government.

Yesterday, Al Qaeda militants staged a surprise attack on a Yemeni army base in
the south, killing 22 soldiers and capturing at least 25.

The militants managed to reach the base both from the sea and by land, gunning
down troops and making away with weapons and other military hardware after the
blitz attack, Yemeni military officials said.

But along with the gains there also have been losses. The group has suffered
significant setbacks as the CIA and the U.S. military focus more on Yemen.

The new Yemeni president, Abed Rabbo Mansour Hadi, has promised improved
cooperation with the U.S. to combat the militants.

On Saturday, he said the fight against Al Qaeda was in its early stages. Hadi
took over in February from longtime authoritarian leader Ali Abdullah Saleh.

AL QAEDA'S CHANGING PLAN OF ATTACK

Since the terror attacks on the morning of September 11, 2001, Al Qaeda has put
different types of plans into action in numerous Jihad plots. While none of the
plots have been successful, they have brought change to airport screenings and
other security measures.


     ·    December 2001: Just months after the 9/11 attacks, Richard Reid tried
          but failed to ignite explosives located in his shoes on a
          Paris-to-Miami flight. As a result, travellers were required to remove
          their shoes during screening checkpoints.
     ·    May 2002: American citizen Jose Padilla was suspected of a plot to
          construct and detonate a radioactive 'dirty bomb,' but was arrested
          before he could put such a plan into action.  He was convicted of
          conspiracy charges in August 2007.
     ·    May 2003: Iyman Faris, aka Mohammed Rauf - another American citizen -
          was charged for his role in a plot to bring down the Brooklyn Bridge
          by using blowtorches to sever its cables.
     ·    August 2006: British authorities uncovered a liquid explosives plot
          designed to take down transatlantic airliners travelling between the
          UK and the U.S. and Canada. A total of 25 suspects were arrested. The
          revelations prompted the TSA to crack down on all liquids brought
          aboard planes.
     ·    May 2007: The 'Fort Dix Six' were picked up by the FBI for their
          elaborate plot to attack soldiers at the New Jersey Army base with
          grenades and assault rifles. That December, five of the six suspects
          were found guilty of conspiracy to commit an act of terrorism and
          various weapons charges.
     ·    December 2009 (the original underwear bomb plot): On Christmas Day,
          Umar Farouk Abdulmutallab tried to blow up a Netherlands-to-Detroit
          aeroplane by igniting explosives that were stitched into his
          underwear, but the explosives failed to detonate properly.
          Abdulmuttalab, who was burned in the incident, was arrested after
          receiving treatment for the burns. The incident prompted U.S.
          authorities to intensify the use of full-body scanners and thorough
          pat-downs.
     ·    October 2010: Explosives resembling those used by Richard Reid and
          Umar Farouk Abdulmutallab were found to be stashed in printer
          cartridges sent to synagogues in Chicago. Both bombs, which were
          believed to have been constructed by al-Qaeda's expert bomb maker
          Ibrahim Hassan al-Asiri, failed to detonate.
     ·    Last week: Al-Qaeda's online magazine Inspire outlined instructions on
          how to produce 'ember bombs' for the purpose of igniting devastating
          forest fires in Montana.
     ·    Also last week: The U.S. stepped up security at airports on the day
          before the bin Laden anniversary amid fears that terrorists may be
          using bombs surgically implanted under inside their bodies, another
          product of al-Asiri.
     ·    Today: U.S. authorities foiled what was to be an 'updated' underwear
          bomb plot designed to bring down a U.S. airliner around the
          anniversary of Osama bin Laden's death.


LOAD-DATE: May 9, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDM


                   Copyright 2012 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              312 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                          Huddersfield Daily Examiner

                             May 9, 2012 Wednesday
                                  1ST Edition

DOG ATTACK TERROR

SECTION: NEWS; FRONT PAGE; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 9 words


DOG ATTACK TERROR Boy, 11, saved by mum as pair pounce

LOAD-DATE: May 9, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: hx


                           Copyright 2012 MGN Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              313 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                   MailOnline

                       May 9, 2012 Wednesday 10:26 PM GMT

Neurosurgeon ordered off cruise after fake Twitter account said he planned on
staging 'epic' bio-terrorist attack

BYLINE: DAILY MAIL REPORTER

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 457 words


A neurosurgeon was ordered off a cruise ship after a Twitter account set up in
his name said he was threatening to commit a bio-terrorist attack.

Dr Jack Kruse was scheduled to address passengers on the 5th Annual Low-Carb
Cruise on the Carnival Magic out of Galveston, Texas.

But before the vessel left on Sunday afternoon, cruise staff learned of a
threatening tweet they believed had been composed by the health guru.

A tweet by @s***krusesays read: 'security confiscated dynamite. talk won't be as
explosive as one at PaleoFx. still have vial of Legionnaires for epic biohack.
#LCCRUISE12'

The Twitter account has now been deleted - but not before authorities boarded
the ship to investigate, the  Houston Chronicle reported.

A cruise line official confirmed that the FBI, Homeland Security, the Galveston
police and the U.S. Coast Guard were alerted.

'It was like being in a movie, and it was surreal,' Kruse, who is based in
Nashville, Tennessee, said in a statement released on his website.

'Having the room completely trashed, and I was asked all of these crazy
questions. I had no idea what they were talking about.'

The cruise line also received an email from a person called 'Lance', who claimed
the doctor had a plan to perform a viral attack on the cruise.

In his statement, Kruse said his bags and computer were searched by the
authorities. He was asked to disembark while they investigated.

They determined the tweet was a fake and officials cleared the doctor of any
wrongdoing, the ship's captain confirmed.

The Carnival cruise ship captain did not allow Kruse to return to the ship
before it left.

In a letter, Captain Giovanni Cutugno apologised to passengers that the doctor
would not be available to speak.

He wrote: 'Since the safety and well-being of my guests and crew is my number
one priority, every security threat is taken seriously and fully investigated.

'It is for this reason that  I felt it was in the best interest of all my guests
to err on the side of caution and not allow him to set sail as planned.'

The investigation is ongoing into the identity of the creator of the tweet.

Kruse, who once weighed more than 350 lbs and lost 130 lbs over 18 months,
addresses audiences about diet and weight loss.

He lectures on Leptin reset and cold thermogenesis, which is a type of treatment
that uses cold temperatures to facilitate weight loss.

Kruse told  The Tennessean he believes the Twitter account was created by people
who disagree with his teachings.

'These were all people who had competing thoughts about diet and exercise. This
created a huge logistical nightmare,' Kruse said.

'To make a joke about something like this is not a good thing to do. Not only is
it unprofessional and unethical, it's quite dangerous these days.'

LOAD-DATE: May 10, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDM


                   Copyright 2012 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              314 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                               The Sun (England)

                             May 9, 2012 Wednesday
                                   Edition 2;
                                National Edition

BAG THE BOMBER;
Hunt stepped up for jet carnage guru Terror attack was foiled by CIA mole

BYLINE: SIMON HUGHES

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 17

LENGTH: 302 words


A MASTER bomb maker was being hunted last night after CIA agents foiled an
al-Qaeda plot to blow up a jet with a device hidden in underpants.

Security chiefs in Britain and the US believe the bomb was built by the terror
group's Ibrahim Hassan al-Asiri.

They fear the ruthless Yemen-based fanatic, who turned his own brother into a
suicide bomber, could have made more of the hard-to-detect devices.

Terror chiefs planned to blow up a US-bound jet on the anniversary of the death
of former al-Qaeda chief Osama Bin Laden.

Last night it emerged the bomb was intercepted by an informer working for the
CIA. He then turned the device over to the authorities.

It is being examined by US and UK experts at the FBI's lab in Virginia.

It is an upgraded version of the pants bomb used by Umar Abdulmutallab that
failed to go off on a flight to Chicago in 2009.

Experts believe the bomb contained up to half a kilo of explosive - enough to
blow a hole in the side of a passenger jet.

The detonator could have been a plane's power source for a laptop, or a mobile
phone or chemical.

As the bomb did not contain metal it would not have been spotted by standard
airport detectors.

But it should have shown up on new US body scanners - thought to be secretly in
use here.

British security analyst Paul Beaver warned of longer checks at UK airports,
saying: "This is a serious development. It shows al-Qaeda's desire to move
technology forward."

US experts described the bomb's trigger as "highly refined". One intelligence
source said: "If they built one they probably built more, that's the scary
part."

Evil Asiri, 31, designed a device which brother Abdullah hid in his bottom
before dying in a failed suicide bombing.

He is also thought to have made the ink cartridge device found at East Midlands
Airport in 2010.

s.hughes@thesun.co.uk

Scary

LOAD-DATE: May 9, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Held ... pants blast fiend Abdulmutallab
Ruthless . . bomb plot guru al-Asiri
Deadly ... the failed 2009 underpants bomb

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: SUN


                    Copyright 2012 NEWS GROUP NEWSPAPERS LTD
                              All Rights Reserved

                              315 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring Middle East - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                             May 10, 2012 Thursday

Iran condemns "terrorist" attacks in Syria

LENGTH: 152 words


Text of report in English by Iranian conservative news agency Mehr

Tehran, 10 May: Iranian Foreign Ministry spokesperson Ramin Mehmanparast
condemned on Thursday [10 May] the recent terrorist attacks in Syria.

Two suicide car bombers killed 55 people and wounded 372 in Damascus on
Thursday, the Syrian media reported.

Mehmanparast said, "Resorting to such violent actions and targeting the
country's innocent people illustrate that the approach of these groups runs
counter to the will of the majority of the Syrian people who confirmed their
support for the reforms process (initiated) by the country's government through
massive turnout for the parliamentary election" on 7 May.

He also called on international organizations, particularly human rights
organizations, to condemn such actions and take the measures necessary to
prevent their recurrence.

Source: Mehr news agency, Tehran, in English 1810 gmt 10 May 12

LOAD-DATE: May 11, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2012 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              316 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                       May 10, 2012 Thursday 8:18 AM GMT

Dozens feared dead in Syrian capital Damascus by 'terrorist' blasts;
Dozens are feared dead or wounded after two blasts in the Syrian capital in
Damascus, with the Assad regime blaming the attacks on "terrorists".

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 480 words


The two powerful blasts hit the Syrian capital at morning rush hour.

"Two explosions caused by terrorists took place on the freeway in the south of
Damascus," state television said, adding that the blasts occurred "as people
were heading to work and children to school."

Residents said the explosions rattled windows and sent plumes of smoke billowing
into the sky.

Television footage at the site of the blasts, which took place on a freeway in
the south of the capital, showed an apocalyptic scene with charred bodies and
the carcasses of vehicles with smoke still rising from them.

The report did not give a breakdown on the number of people killed and those
wounded, but said most of the casualties were civilians.

The Syrian Observatory for Human Rights, a Britain-based monitoring group, said
the explosions occurred at an intelligence services base in Damascus. It said at
least one of the blasts was caused by a car bomb.

Damascus has been the target of a number of bombs in past months as President
Bashar al-Assad faces a revolt against his regime which his forces are
attempting to crush.

The blasts came a day after a bomb attack on a UN observer convoy in the
southern city of Dera'a, which injured six Syrian troops escorting the vehicles.

Responding to the Dera'a attack, UN leader Ban Ki-moon warned Syria's government
and opposition there is only a "brief window" to avoid civil war and indicated
the future of the ceasefire monitoring mission was in doubt.

Highlighting an "alarming upsurge" of roadside bombs, alongside government
attacks, Ban said both sides "must realise that we have a brief window to stop
the violence, a brief opportunity to create an opening for political engagement
between the government and those seeking change."

The Observatory says that almost 12,000 people, mostly civilians, have been
killed in Syria since the revolt, inspired by Arab Spring uprisings, broke out
in March last year.

About 800 of them have died since a UN-backed truce was supposed to have taken
effect on April 12.

Damascus was hit by two blasts on May 6, with three soldiers wounded in one of
the attacks. Television footage showed a mangled car destroyed by one of the
explosions.

A deadly suicide bombing at Zein al-Abidin mosque in the capital's central Midan
district on April 27 killed 11 people and wounded dozens, according to state
media.

An Islamist group calling itself Al-Nusra Front had earlier claimed
responsibility for a deadly suicide bombing on April 20 near the Syrian city of
Hama that targeted a restaurant used by the security forces.

The Syrian authorities regularly blame the blasts on "terrorist groups" they say
are behind the violence that has swept the country for the past 14 months.

The opposition accuses regime forces of being behind the bombings in an attempt
to discredit protesters demanding the ouster of Assad.

Source: agencies

LOAD-DATE: May 11, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTNS


                  Copyright 2012 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              317 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                 Yorkshire Post

                             May 10, 2012 Thursday

Russian secret service foils terror plot to attack Winter Olympics

LENGTH: 266  words


Russian agents have foiled terror attack plans on the Black Sea resort of Sochi,
host of the 2014 Winter Olympics, and seized weapons and ammunition.

The FSB secret service agency discovered 10 caches of arms and ammunition last
weekend in Georgia's breakaway republic of Abkhazia. The arms seized included
portable surface-to-air missiles, grenade launchers, flame throwers, grenades,
rifles and explosives.

The FSB claimed it suspected the attacks targeting Sochi were being masterminded
by Chechen rebel leader Doku Umarov, whom it alleges has close ties to Georgia's
secret service.

The secret service said Umarov co-ordinated the delivery of the weapons and
ammunition to Abkhazia and arranged caches for them. Umarov has previously
claimed responsibility for the deadly bombing in a Moscow airport that killed 35
people in 2011.

Authorities said the terrorists were planning to smuggle the explosives and arms
to Sochi "in order to use them during the preparations and during the games".

Sochi is less than dozen miles away from Russia's border with Abkhazia, a tiny
region on the Black Sea that declared independence from Georgia in 2008. Georgia
and Russia, both former Soviet republics, had a brief war in 2008 and relations
remain tense.

Shota Khizanishvili, chief of staff at Georgia's Interior Ministry, denied any
links between Georgia and Umarov. Sochi's selection as the host of the 2014
Winter Games had sparked fears of possible terrorist activity.

The city is in the same area as Russia's volatile North Caucasus region, which
is plagued with violence linked to an Islamist insurgency.

LOAD-DATE: June 15, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: NLYP


                       Copyright 2012 Johnston Press Plc
                              All Rights Reserved

                              318 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                               Independent.co.uk

                        May 11, 2012 Friday 11:04 AM GMT

Widow of 7/7 suicide bomber Germaine Lindsay 'financed Kenya tourist terror
attack'

BYLINE: Terri Judd, Rob Hastings

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 446 words


The widow of one of the London suicide bombers was financing a terrorist attack
in Kenya, it has been claimed.

The allegation was made as Jermaine Jhon Grant, a Briton, appeared before a
court in Mombasa, accused of plotting a bomb attack. Jacob Ondari, for the
prosecution, said the Muslim convert had been helped by Samantha Lewthwaite, the
28-year-old widow of Germaine Lindsay.

"It is our belief that she [Ms Lewthwaite] is connected with Grant and that they
were working together. She is believed to be the financier of the whole thing,"
Mr Ondari said.

She has been implicated in the alleged plot by several witnesses who claim they
saw Grant and a woman they believe was Ms Lewthwaite in Mombasa in November and
December last year. It is thought that others may have also been involved,
though it is unclear whether they were also British. The money she provided is
thought to have paid for the rent of various safe houses used by the group while
they were allegedly conspiring to carry out their attack, sometimes paying
months in advance.

Grant sat in silence as he appeared in court yesterday. The 29-year-old is
accused, with three Kenyan co-defendants including his wife, Warda Breik Islam,
19, of plotting an explosion aimed at killing civilians. All the defendants deny
all the charges.

The east Londoner was arrested in December after police raided the house where
he was staying and found hydrogen peroxide and ammonium nitrate, as well as
batteries and switches - ingredients, the prosecution claims, for a bomb.

The first witness, Hassan Mohammed, said he helped the Briton to find a Kenyan
wife, adding that Grant had lied to him about his identity and nationality.
Grant is already serving a jail term for being in Kenya illegally.

Ms Lewthwaite, whose husband blew himself up on the London Underground
Piccadilly line on 7 July 2005, killing 26 people, is wanted by the Kenyan
authorities after disappearing last year.

She went missing after she was found by police in the home of the widow of an
al-Qai'da operative who was killed in Somalia last year - where Ms Lewthwaite is
now thought to be living.

She is alleged to have used a false passport bearing the name of a nurse from
Essex, Natalie Webb, who had her identity stolen and played no part nor had any
knowledge of the incident.

Grant, from Newham, was first detained in Kenya near the Somali border in 2008,
but is accused of escaping custody with the help of a group of Islamist
militants belonging to the Islamist insurgents al-Shabaab.

He has been charged separately in a Nairobi court for this escape and for with
robbery with violence, but denies the charges. The trial has been adjourned
until 15 August.

LOAD-DATE: May 12, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBI


                  Copyright 2012 Independent News & Media plc
                              All Rights Reserved

                              319 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                   The Mirror

                              May 11, 2012 Friday
                                  Eire Edition

SYRIA SUICIDE BOMBS KILL 55;
372 HURT AS TERRORISTS ATTACK IN RUSH-HOUR

BYLINE: NIGEL ATKINS

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 272 words


SYRIA'S ceasefire was in tatters yesterday after two massive explosions killed
55 people.

At least another 372 people were injured when the suicide car bombers struck
capital Damascus during the morning rush-hour.

The first blast at 8am attracted dozens of people to the area before a much
larger device went off.

They are the deadliest attacks in the capital since the revolt against President
Bashar al-Assad began. It is a major blow to the ceasefire declared by
international mediator Kofi Annan last month.

Major-General Robert Mood, leader of the UN monitors who visited the horrific
scene yesterday, said: "This is yet another example of the suffering brought
upon the people of Syria from acts of violence."

The bombs weighed more than a ton and were detonated outside the offices of
Assad's intelligence services, who are leading the crackdown on the 14-month-old
uprising.

Syrian TV blamed terrorists but no group claimed responsibility.

There are claims that the blasts were orchestrated by the government in an
attempt to discredit the opposition. Footage filmed soon after the blasts showed
a man pointing to the wreckage and saying: "This is the work of the Saudis."

Both Assad's regime and opposition forces have both violated the ceasefire. The
Syrian army bombarded the city of Homs overnight.

Central Damascus is under the tight control of forces loyal to the President but
has been struck by several bomb attacks, often targeting security installations
or convoys.

Russia condemned the bombings and accused other, unspecified countries of
encouraging violence.

Foreign Minister Sergei Lavrov said foreign states shared the blame.

LOAD-DATE: May 11, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: AGONY J Injured man CARNAGE 3 Thick smoke billows from burning cars in
Damascus yesterday

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                            Copyright 2012 MGN Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              320 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                                  Morning Star

                              May 11, 2012 Friday

UN slams Syria terror attack

BYLINE: Our Foreign Desk

SECTION: WORLD

LENGTH: 241 words


The council said terrorism "constitutes one of the most serious threats to to
international peace and security," adding that acts of terrorism are
unjustifiable "regardless of their motivation." It called on all sides to cease
violence and comply with the UN-brokered peace plan.

Two suicide car bombers killed 55 people and wounded nearly 400 others in
Damascus earlier. Syria's UN ambassador Bashar Jaafari accused "some regional
and international states" of sending fighters, funds and arms to terrorist
groups in the country. Mr Jaafari said that there had been an increase in "the
scale antomorrowd frequency of terrorist activities" since an April 12 truce
took hold. He told the security council that Syrian authorities "have a list
that contains 12 names of foreign terrorists killed in Syria, including one
French citizen, one British citizen and one Belgian citizen." He said that a
list of 26 detained foreign fighters had been sent to UN secretary general Ban
Ki Moon. The 26 have "confessed they entered Syria to carry out terror
operations," and some were "associated" with al-Qaida, he claimed. In Washington
US Defence Secretary Leon Panetta said that US intelligence indicates "an
al-Qaida presence in Syria." Chief of the Paris-based opposition Syrian National
Council Burhan Ghalioun accused the government of having orchestrated the
attacks. "The relationship between the Syrian regime and al-Qaida is very
strong," he claimed.

LOAD-DATE: May 12, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


               Copyright 2012 People's Press Printing Society Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                              321 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                    Scotsman

                              May 11, 2012 Friday

Islamic terrorist plot to attack 2014 Winter Olympics foiled by Russia

LENGTH: 245  words


Russia has uncovered an alleged plot by Islamic militants to attack the 2014
Winter Olympics in the Black Sea resort of Sochi, security sources in Moscow
claimed yesterday.

Russia's National Anti-Terrorism Committee (NAC) said the special services had
confiscated arms, ammunition and explosives - including surface-to-air missiles
and a flamethrower - in the breakaway Abkhazia region of Georgia, the South
Caucasus country with which Russia went to war in 2008.

Any security breach around the games could be embarrassing for president
Vladimir Putin, who hopes it can be used to boost Russia's image.

Abkhazia, which Russia recognised as an independent nation after the war, is
adjacent to Sochi on the Black Sea coast. The alleged attackers had also planned
attacks in the run-up to the games in February 2014, the NAC said.

"Russia's FSB [security service] was able to establish the fighters planned to
move the weapons to Sochi from 2012 to 2014 and use them to carry out terrorist
acts before and during the Olympic Games," NAC said in a statement.

The NAC blamed the plot on the Caucasus Emirate, a lead group in an insurgency
against Russian rule in the North Caucasus, where Russian troops have fought two
wars in Chechnya since the 1991 Soviet collapse.

It suggested the group's leader, Doku Umarov, had been co-operating with
Georgian special services but did not give any details to support this
allegation and the NAC report could not be independently verified.

LOAD-DATE: June 15, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: STTS


                       Copyright 2012 Johnston Press Plc
                              All Rights Reserved

                              322 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                                The Western Mail

                              May 11, 2012 Friday
                                 First Edition

Agents foil terror attack on Russian resort;
WORLDBULLETINS

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 111 words


RUSSIAN agents foiled terror attack plans on the Black Sea resort of Sochi, host
of the 2014 Winter Games, and seized a large amount of weapons and ammunition,
officials said.

The FSB secret service agency discovered 10 caches of arms and ammunition on May
4 and May 5 in Georgia's breakaway republic of Abkhazia. The region is very
close to Sochi.

The arms seized included portable surface-to-air missiles, grenade launchers,
flame throwers, grenades, rifles and explosives including TNT.

The FSB said it suspects the attacks targeting Sochi were being masterminded by
Chechen rebel leader Doku Umarov, who it alleges has close ties to Georgia's
secret service.

LOAD-DATE: May 11, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: wm


                    Copyright 2012 Western Mail and Echo Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                              323 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring Middle East - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                             May 12, 2012 Saturday

Lebanese party leader says terrorist attacks in Syria "unacceptable,
unjustified"

LENGTH: 191 words


Text of report in English by Lebanese National News Agency website

["Siniora: Terrorist attacks in Damascus unacceptable, unjustified." - NNA
Headline]

11/5/2012 - "Future" Parliamentary bloc head condemned the terrorist attacks in
the Syrian capital, Damascus, on Thursday 10 May causing numerous deaths and
injuries of innocent Syrian citizens.

The MP added, "Those who committed these terrorist attacks are Syria and its
people's enemy. Accordingly, it is impossible we accept, justify or disregard
this criminal act."

Siniora expressed his sincere condolences to the families of the victims and
wished injured people quick recovery.

He added that the solution that would rescue Syria from its dramatic situation
would be a precise comprehensive implementation of all elements of the Joint
Special Envoy six-point proposal, and listening to the people's righteous
demands.

Siniora concluded, "Solution in Syria would be brought up by the Syrian people
through change, development and reform not through military and security tools
and solutions used by the regime."

Source: Lebanese National News Agency website, Beirut, in English 1735 gmt 11
May 12

LOAD-DATE: May 12, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2012 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              324 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                                Sunday Sun (UK)

                                  May 13, 2012
                                  1st Edition

MUM IN KNIFE RAID TERROR AT HOME;
Horrific masked attack

BYLINE: RACHEL WEARMOUTH

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 307 words


KNIFE-WIELDING robbers burst into a woman's home and threatened her for money in
a terrifying attack.

The trio of balaclava-clad criminals struck at an 18-year-old woman's home in
Malvern Street, South Shields, South Tyneside, in the early hours of yesterday.

After the thieves knocked on the door, the woman, believed to be the mother of a
young baby, opened it and the gang pushed past her.

Once inside, they threatened the woman with a knife and demanded cash and her
mobile phone.

They then made off on foot with the woman's television at around 12.50am.

The woman, who was left shaken but not injured, then raised the alarm.

They did not leave with cash or the phone.

Police say they have arrested two men, both aged 21, and a 26-year-old woman in
connection with the incident.

They were last night in custody helping police with their inquiries.

Last night neighbours told of their shock.

Neighbour Ian Jackson, 24, a shop assistant, said: "We heard a loud banging on a
window.

"The police came knocking on our door at about 1.20am and there were police
pretty much all around the area.

"They were still here at 6am.

"I think the woman had just moved in a few weeks ago."

Another neighbour, who did not want to be named, said: "I hope that she is OK.
It is awful that this would happen to such a young girl.

The police have had forensics teams out this morning.

"They were all over last night."

Another neighbour added: "She has only just moved in here and I think that she
is a mum.

"We heard a loud thudding noise. It sounded like someone was kicking at the
door. "We didn't hear any shouting though. We know that they ran off with her
television.

"I really hope that she is going to be alright."

Anyone with any information about the incident should contact police on 101 ext
69191 or Crimestoppers on 0800 555 111.

LOAD-DATE: May 13, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: ss


                           Copyright 2012 MGN Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              325 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                       BBC Monitoring Europe - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                              May 14, 2012 Monday

Italian minister warns domestic terrorism may escalate after attack in northwest

LENGTH: 898 words


Text of report by Italian leading privately-owned centre-left newspaper La
Repubblica, on 13 May

[Interview with Italian Interior Minister Anna Maria Cancellieri by Paolo
Griseri in Turin; date not given: "'Finmeccanica and Equitalia Among the
Targets, We Will Also Use the Army To Defend Them'"]

Turin - An escalation, but above all an expansion of the area of consensus [for
terror attacks], or at least of the area that does not issue condemnations, that
socially grey space where economic desperation can form an alliance with violent
action. Yes, even before the meticulous reconstruction of the terrorist map,
this is the main concern of Italian Minister Anna Maria Cancellieri, in the
difficult days of the rebirth of the practice of using weapons, no longer a
party but a universe which uses the symbols of an attack on people, and on the
system that they represent, as a franchise.

[Griseri] Minister Cancellieri, what is your view of the claim of responsibility
for the attack in Genoa?

[Cancellieri] The investigators tell me that it is a reliable document. A
document which, of course, is now being looked into, in all its details.

[Griseri] In the text it is announced that, after the attack in Genoa, there
will be a further seven attacks. Do you regard that as a plausible threat?

[Cancellieri] How can one tell? I of course trust not, but the very fact that
that document is regarded as reliable leads us to raise our guard, to prevent an
escalation which, unfortunately, is one of the possible scenarios. That is what
we will do, starting in the very next few days.

[Griseri] What does that mean, in hard and fast terms?

[Cancellieri] On Thursday a meeting is scheduled of the Committee for Order and
Security. On that occasion we will present a package of proposals. Just now a
memorandum has been issued urging officials to raise their level of attention
around sensitive targets across the country.

[Griseri] What do you mean by sensitive targets? Places, people?

[Cancellieri] There are specific points in the alleged claim of responsibility
relating to firms, like Finmeccanica. In recent days there have been attacks on
offices of Equitalia [Italian state tax collection agency]. I would like to
stress that attacking Equitalia is the equivalent of attacking the state. I have
cited two examples, but it is clear that we will not restrict ourselves to them.

[Griseri] In the plan which you are to present on Thursday, is the use of the
army also envisioned to defend targets that are at risk?

[Cancellieri] That is one of the possibilities which we are looking into. For
that matter, this has already been done in the past. The personnel available to
us is limited, and that is another reason why the use of the army is a possible
solution.

[Griseri] Looking into the history of the FAI [Informal Anarchist Federation],
it seems that the group's actions are concentrated mainly in Genoa and Bologna.
Is this the axis along which the investigations are concentrating on?

[Cancellieri] I can't answer that question. There are investigations under way,
and there are investigators at work. Let's let them work without interference.

[Griseri] According to the information available to you, what is the area of
consensus which the people who carried out an attack like the one in Genoa can
have?

[Cancellieri] We believe that the consensus is restricted to a numerically
limited area, and that most Italians regard what happened as aberrant. I don't
think that there are many people who have nostalgia for going 40 years back in
time, and plunging the country back in the Years of Lead [REFERENCE to political
violence in 1970s-80s].

[Griseri] One of the questions to be answered is the identikit of these groups.
In your view, are these veterans of the period 40 years ago, or new recruits?

[Cancellieri] I would start by saying that, to have a clear map of the groups
and the biographies of their members, we have to wait for the end of the
investigations that are under way, or at least until the end of their first
phase. But from what we can know, I believe that these are mainly new recruits,
young people who have a very distant relationship with what happened in the
1970s. That is another reason why it is necessary to avoid the mistake of
looking at what is happening today through the glasses of an era that is now
over.

[Griseri] Minister, Italy is going through a very difficult time from the social
and economic point of view. Is this not favourable terrain for people who
brandish weapons? Do you not fear that tomorrow someone may switch from
depression to the armed struggle?

[Cancellieri] The current time is certainly difficult, and perhaps some people
may have the temptation that you mention. But that is the very task of politics
and the social forces. We must all feel committed to working to ensure that this
temptation does not spread, and that there is no attitude of indulgence, and
that, independently of their political colours, the parties distance themselves
from violence and terrorism without any ambiguity. Personally, I don't believe
that Italy's families, grappling with the problems of a difficult economic
situation, might be tempted by the people who are proposing an armed struggle.
However, it is up to the parties and the social forces to put everyone on their
guard against dangerous short-cuts.

Source: La Repubblica, Rome, in Italian 13 May 12 p 3

LOAD-DATE: May 14, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2012 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              326 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                   MailOnline

                        May 14, 2012 Monday 1:06 PM GMT

Husband of 9/11 victim visited Guantanamo Bay to try and save the lives of
terrorists behind the attack

BYLINE: ANTHONY BOND

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 935 words



     ·    Blake Allison held a meeting with the lawyers of Khalid Sheik Mohammed
          and four of his accomplices
     ·    He offered to testify in court against the men being given the death
          penalty
     ·    His wife Anna was travelling to Los Angeles for work when her plane
          crashed into the World Trade Centre


The husband of a woman who was killed when her plane smashed into the World
Trade Centre on 9/11 visited Guantanamo Bay to try and save the lives of the
Al-Qaeda terrorists behind the attack.

Blake Allison, 62, held a secret hour-long meeting last week with the lawyers of
9/11 mastermind Khalid Sheik Mohammed and four of his accomplices.

Incredibly, during the extraordinary meeting he offered to testify in court
against the death penalty being used against the men.

The wine-company executive is a vocal critic of capital punishment and said he
wants the U.S government to spare the lives of the five men - even if they are
convicted of a host of death-penalty charges.

Speaking to the New York Post, he said: 'The public needs to know there are
family members out there who do not hold the view that these men should be put
to death.

'We can't kill our way to a peaceful tomorrow.'

He added: 'Just because I was hurt very badly and personally does not, in my
mind, give me the go-ahead to take a life.'

Mr Allison's wife Anna, 48, was travelling to Los Angeles for work when the
American Airlines Flight 11 crashed into Tower 1 at the World Trade Centre.

Mr Allison - from New Hampshire - has admitted his late wife's relatives or
other victims' family members do not share his view.

He also says he believes Khalid Sheik Mohammed, Waleed bin Attash, Ramzi
Binalshibh, Ali Abd al-Aziz Ali and Mustafa Ahmad al-Hawsawi have no remorse and
would commit the same atrocities again.

His meeting with the terrorists' lawyers took place on May 4.

Mr Allison, who has remarried, said despite opposing the death penalty, this
does not mean he wants the men behind the devastating attack not to be brought
to justice.

But he said he believes it is wrong to take a life.

He says he has been against the death penalty for decades, before his wife was
murdered.

Mr Allison has also previously testified on behalf of 9/11 conspirator Zacarias
Moussaoui.

He was the 20th hijacker who faced the death penalty but was instead sentenced
to life in prison.

A total of 2,976 people were murdered during the day of attacks in 2001 after
hijacked airliners were flown into New York's World Trade Centre and the
Pentagon in Washington.

The grieving relatives of 9/11 victims were left furious earlier this month when
a preliminary hearing for the five men descended into farce.

The men deliberately disrupted what should have been a short hearing, dragging
it out for 13 hours.

Proceedings were repeatedly interrupted as the men knelt in prayer, flicked
through a copy of The Economist, refused to use headphones and insisted the 123
pages of charges they face were read aloud.

Their antics in a top-security military court in Guantanamo Bay were watched by
the relatives, who had attended the court and watched live feeds at military
bases in several U.S. cities.

Jim Riches, whose fireman son, Jimmy, died at the World Trade Centre, said:
'It's actually a joke, it feels ridiculous. It looks like it's going to be a
very long trial.'

Debra Burlingame, whose brother, Charles, was the pilot of the plane that flew
into the Pentagon, added: 'They're engaging in jihad in a courtroom.

'My brother was murdered in the cockpit of his airplane, and we will have to
stand up for him.'

Eddie Bracken, from Staten Island, said he gone to Cuba to look straight at the
accused terrorists. He lost his sister, a mother of two, who worked as a
secretary on the 105th floor of the south tower.

As one of them, Binalshibh entered the court, he smiled at Mr Bracken and gave
him a thumbs-up.

Mr Bracken told the accused: 'I came a long way to see you, eye to eye.'

It is the second attempt to prosecute the self-proclaimed mastermind of the
atrocities, Khalid Sheikh Mohammed, and four others.

Mohammed, 47, who has admitted being the architect of the attacks, appeared in
public for the first time in three years for the arraignment hearing - which
will have to be held again so the defendants can enter pleas.

Mohammed is being tried alongside Waleed bin Attash, Ramzi Binalshibh, Ali Abd
al-Aziz Ali and Mustafa Ahmad al-Hawsawi.

If convicted, the men could face the death penalty but the trial is unlikely to
take place for at least another 12 months.

At the arraignment hearing, the judge was deluged with questions about his
qualifications to hear the case. There were also complaints that the accused
were not allowed to wear clothes supplied by their lawyers.

Regular meal and prayer breaks further delayed proceedings and at one point all
five men refused to take part and passed around a copy of The Economist
magazine.

They ignored the judge, wouldn't listen to Arabic translations over their
headphones and asked for lengthy court documents to be read aloud, adding two
hours to the case.

Mohammed took off his earphones providing an Arabic translation and refused to
answer questions or acknowledge he understood them before dozing off.

Bin Attash was locked to a restraint chair when he came into court and released
only after he promised to behave.

The only defendant to break his silence was Binalshibh who prayed alongside his
defence table before launching into a tirade in which he claimed to be in
danger.

In a mixture of broken English and Arabic he compared the Guantanamo Bay
commander to Colonel Gadaffi, the former Libyan dictator, and claimed that he
had been threatened.

LOAD-DATE: May 15, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDM


                   Copyright 2012 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              327 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring Middle East - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                              May 15, 2012 Tuesday

"Armed terrorist groups" escalate attacks in Syria

LENGTH: 442 words


Text of report in English by state-run Syrian news agency SANA website

["Armed Terrorist Groups Attacks and Infiltration Bids Escalated" - SANA
Headline]

Banyas, Idleb, Homs - A 3-flat building at Karm al-Shouk Quarter in Banyas City
collapsed Tuesday [15 May] when an explosive charge under preparation by
terrorists inside the building exploded.

The explosion caused scores of death or wounded as well as damage to nearby
buildings.

SANA Correspondent quoted a source in Tartous Governorate as saying that the
terrorists Adnan Muhamad al-Masri, Yahyia Ahmad al-Zir, and Badr Muhammad
Al-Dhayi were killed in the explosion during their preparations of the explosive
charge.

Child Shihada Shaa'ban, 3 years old, died as a result of the collapse of the
building, Hassan Shaa'ban, Fatima yassin and her sons Omar, Hala and Ahmad
a-Dhayi suffered different wounds.

In Homs Countryside , an armed terrorist group assassinated Tuesday Brigadier
General Nizar al-Husayn and his driver Ra'id Sulayman near Shinshar Crossing on
Homs-Damascus way.

Meantime, competent authorities aborted an infiltration attempt from the Turkish
territories to Syria by an armed terrorist group at al-Duria post in Darkoush
village of Idleb Countryside.

Borders Guards clashed with the terrorist group and killed or wounded scores of
the terrorists; other terrorists were able to escape to the Turkish side, where
cars were in waiting for them.

Last night, the competent Authorities were able to foil another infiltration bid
from Lebanon to Syria by an armed terrorist group at al-Mishirfa post of
Talkalkh region in Homs Countryside.

SANA correspondent quoted a source in the governorate as saying that the members
of the terrorist group ran away during the clashes without confirming the number
of the dead or wounded terrorists because the clashes took place during the
night.

Meantime, General Robert Mood, Chairman of the UN Observers Mission to Syria,
declared that the number of the Observers reached to more than 200 and a post
for the Observers was established in Dayr al-Zur Governorate, asserting
continued work of the observers in Syria in a good way, voicing thanks to the
way of receiving the Observers and trust in opening dialogue.

The Syrian cabinet held a meeting earlier today on ways and means of providing
assistance and help to the citizens who were compelled to evacuate their houses
in some regions and governorates under threats of the armed terrorist groups, as
well as on appropriate mechanisms to rehabilitate and reconstruct the
infrastructure and buildings damaged by the terrorist groups' attacks.

Source: SANA news agency website, Damascus in English 15 May 12

LOAD-DATE: May 15, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2012 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              328 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                       BBC Monitoring Africa - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                             May 16, 2012 Wednesday

Kenyan police arrest "wanted terrorist" over 15 May grenade attack

LENGTH: 508 words


Text of report by David Ochami and Cyrus Ombati entitled "Police: Mombasa blast
attacker was a wanted terrorist" published by Kenyan privately-owned daily
newspaper The Standard website on 16 May

Police have arrested one person suspected of involvement in the Tuesday [15 May]
night terror attack on a restaurant in the coastal city of Mombasa. Police
commissioner [Matthew Iteere] announced that the suspect now under police guard
was a wanted man on the terror list.

Said Iteere in Nairobi:" He was found with a bus ticket and had planned to
return to Nairobi at 10p.m. [1900 gmt] after the attack."

The man was among five people injured in the blast. He is currently under armed
guard at the Coast General Hospital. Doctors are treating him for shrapnel
injuries to his hands believed to have been caused by a grenade. Police say he
had booked a seat on a bus that left Mombasa for Nairobi at 10p.m. last night.

The police boss added that officers went to the bus station and searched his
luggage and retrieved a magazine with eight rounds of ammunition and a laptop he
is believed to have used to communicate with accomplices.

There has been no claim of responsibility but police say sympathisers of the
Somalia-based Al-Shabab terror group are the prime suspects.

One woman was killed and several other people injured when two or three men
armed with guns and grenades attacked the Bella Vista night club and restaurant
on Moi Avenue.

The woman, whose name has yet to be released to the public, is being hailed as a
heroine who saved lives when she and her colleagues blocked the terrorists from
entering a hotel building with their weapons. The dead woman was one of the
security guards involved in a scuffle to prevent the men from entering the Belle
Vista. She was fatally injured and later died of her injuries at the Aga Khan
hospital.

Eyewitnesses said they saw two or three men arguing with security guards at the
hotel's entrance sometime between 9.30 and 10 p.m. They were apparently refusing
to be searched in the security checks now common before entering any public
venue. A struggle ensued during which shots were fired by the suspected
terrorists and then two explosions followed. Police arrived at the scene,
evacuated the building and sealed off the hotel.

Witnesses said they saw at least three critically injured people being taken
away from the crime scene. According to the Kenya Red Cross, there were five
casualties, including the female security guard who later died. They were rushed
to Coast General Hospital and The Aga Khan Hospital as rescue operations
continued.

Meanwhile, a man arrested in connection with a similar grenade attack in Nairobi
last month has been charged in a Nairobi court. Mr Ibrahim Kagwe was released on
a cash bail of 500,000 shillings [5,800 dollars] after pleading not guilty to
six counts of causing bodily harm at the God House of Miracles church in Ngara.
Kagwe was also charged with being a member of Al-Shabab, which is a proscribed
body.

Source: The Standard website, Nairobi, in English 16 May 12

LOAD-DATE: May 16, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2012 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              329 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                          The Daily Telegraph (London)

                             May 16, 2012 Wednesday
                                   Edition 1;
                                    Scotland

English SAS 'would have to rescue a separate Scotland from terrorist attack'

BYLINE: Simon Johnson

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 535 words


ENGLISH special forces units would have to "rescue" a separate Scotland from
terrorist attack even if Alex Salmond starts drawing up a defence plan for
independence now, a former SAS commander said yesterday.

Clive Fairweather predicted that all but a handful of Scottish servicemen in the
SAS and the Special Boat Service (SBS) will choose to stay there after
separation, leaving the country with a gap in its defences that terrorists could
exploit.

He urged the First Minister to start preparations for forming a new special
forces unit now, but warned that even if his advice was heeded then Scotland
would need England's help in the years following independence.

Although Scotland has already experienced a terrorist attack on Glasgow Airport,
he predicted that the most likely targets would be North Sea oil and gas rigs.

The warning came yesterday at a conference on defence after separation, during
which a series of former senior soldiers warned that an independent Scotland
would struggle to recruit enough servicemen to form a skilled armed forces.

A former Royal Tank Regiment lieutenant colonel said the army would only need to
be a third the size of Denmark's but this was inexact because of the "vacuum"
created by the SNP's lack of a defined foreign policy.

Their interventions were a damaging blow to Mr Salmond's hopes of convincing the
Scottish public he can be trusted with national security.

He has said he wants to take the historic Scottish regiments, now part of the
Royal Regiment of Scotland, along with one naval base and one airbase.

However, former army commanders branded the plan "back-of-the-fagpacket, Scots
Wha Hae politics", pointing out that the First Minister made no mention of
logistics, intelligence or special forces.

Speaking at the Edinburgh conference yesterday, Col Fairweather estimated about
75 Scottish SAS members would be required, costing £10million to establish and
three years to prepare.

"Where are we going to get these individuals? "On the announcement of
independence, I'm sure patriotic Scots SAS and SBS will be rushing north to
become the backbone," he said sarcastically.

"Actually I reckon that would be about a handful. The remainder will probably
stay on for a more professional opportunity elsewhere.

"There will have to be a very fuzzy overlap where English special forces would
still come to the rescue before we're finally able to go ourselves."

He said the main threats to national security would not become apparent until
after separation as currently Scotland is "lumped in" with the rest of the UK.

Prof Hew Strachan, a military historian and adviser to the Ministry of Defence
(MoD), said many Scottish soldiers would choose to stay with the British Army so
they could satisfy their career ambitions.

Meanwhile, Lt Col Stuart Crawford explained his report concluding a separate
Scotland would only need £2billion to defend itself, less than the £3.3billion
which is spent north of the Border on the UK armed forces.

The former Royal Tank Regiment officer said an independent Scotland would need a
navy consisting of up to 25 ships and an air force with 60 planes but no tanks
or artillery.

'I'm sure Scots SAS and SBS will rush north to become the backbone'

LOAD-DATE: May 16, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DTLscot


                  Copyright 2012 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              330 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                       May 17, 2012 Thursday 10:20 PM GMT

'Queen of Disco' Donna Summer 'thought she became ill after inhaling 9/11
particles';
Donna Summer, the 1970s pop singer known as the Queen of Disco, has died of lung
cancer, an illness she believes she contracted from inhaling toxic particles
released after the September 11 terrorist attacks in New York.

BYLINE: By Mark Hughes in New York and Andrew Hough

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 819 words


The 63-year-old singer, who had hits including Hot Stuff, Love to Love You, Baby
and I Feel Love, died in Florida on Thursday morning.

She had largely kept her battle with lung cancer out of the public eye. But the
website TMZ reported that the singer had told friends she believed her illness
was the result of inhaling toxic dust from the collapsed Twin Towers.

On Thursday night tributes were paid to the singer, considered by many to be the
voice of the 1970s.

A statement released on behalf of her family - husband Bruce Sudano, their
daughters Brooklyn and Amanda, her daughter, Mimi from a previous marriage and
four grandchildren - read: "Early this morning, surrounded by family, we lost
Donna Summer Sudano, a woman of many gifts, the greatest being her faith.

"While we grieve her passing, we are at peace celebrating her extraordinary life
and her continued legacy.

"Words truly can't express how much we appreciate your prayers and love for our
family at this sensitive time."

She had spoken at length about September 11.

In a 2008 interview with The Daily Telegraph, she said she had a premonition
about the attacks a month beforehand. Afterwards she said she suffered from
severe depression and could not leave her Manhattan flat.

"I didn't want to talk to anybody. I had to keep the blinds down and stay in my
bedroom," she said.

Music industry heavyweights spoke of their respect for Summer.

Sir Elton John said: "I'm so sad. This woman was the queen of disco and so much
more.

"That she has never been inducted into the Rock 'n' Roll Hall of Fame is a total
disgrace, especially when I see the second-rate talent that has been inducted.
Her records sound as good today as they ever did."

Quincy Jones, who produced albums for Summer, wrote on Twitter: "Rest in peace
dear Donna Summer. Your voice was the heartbeat and soundtrack of a decade."

Gloria Estefan wrote: "Few singers have impacted music and the world like Donna
Summer! It's the end of an era."

Kylie Minogue said that Summer was "one of my earliest musical inspirations",
while the musician Moby said: "Words can't express the impact and influence she
had on music."

Aretha Franklin said: "So shocking to hear about the passing of Donna Summer. In
the 70s, she reigned over the disco era and kept the disco jumping. Who will
forget "Last Dance." A fine performer and a very nice person."

Barbra Streisand added: "I was shocked to hear about Donna. She was so vital the
last time I saw her a few months ago. I loved doing the duet with her. She had
an amazing voice and was so talented. It's so sad."

Neil Portnow, the Recording Academy President said: "Donna Summer had a dynamic
voice and unique musical style that helped define the dance music genre in the
'70s. She also was an artist who crossed many musical genres..."

The record producer Pete Waterman, who worked with Summer in the 1980s, said:
"Whenever you were with her she made you feel so special. She had all the talent
but she gave you all the credit. She was not a diva in any shape or form.

"But what a voice she had. She used to warm up in the ladies lavatory and
everyone in our building would stop and it would come to a standstill to hear
her warm up."

Summer's career began in the early 1970s and she was still recording until
recently. She was reportedly working on a new record when she died.

A Christian who was "born again" in 1979, Summer was credited with defining the
disco era, laying the foundations for modern dance music.

She was said to have pioneered the fusion of European electronic music with
American disco and to have influenced acts including David Bowie and Duran
Duran.

She won five Grammy Awards, six American Music Awards, and had three
multi-platinum albums.

In America the title track from her 2008 album, I'm a Fire, took Summer to
number one in the dance charts, making her the first artist to reach the slot in
the Seventies, Eighties, Nineties and the first decade of the new millennium.

At least 55 rescuers have died as a result of cancer since 9/11. Although many
had been diagnosed with the disease prior to the tragedy. At least 75 have been
diagnosed with cancer since the attacks.

More than 18,000 people claim to have fallen ill due to inhaling dust particles
from the collapse of the towers, with the primary issue being repspitory
problems. And the number is constantly increasing.

The majority of those affected are rescue workers who spent extended periods at
Ground Zero. Several people who died of illness following 9/11, including eight
police officers, have their names on the World Trade Center memorial.

Many families have sued the city for illnesses brought on by the tragedy with
cases still making their way through the courts.

According to air polluton experts the dust contained asbestos as well as traces
of Lead, mercury and dioxin. More than 2,500 contaminants were found in the dust
including known carcinogens.

LOAD-DATE: May 18, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTNS


                  Copyright 2012 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              331 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                       May 17, 2012 Thursday 9:33 PM GMT

'Queen of Disco' Donna Summer 'thought she became ill after inhalling 9/11
particles';
Donna Summer, the 1970s pop singer known as the Queen of Disco, has died of lung
cancer, an illness she believes she contracted from inhaling toxic particles
released after the September 11 terrorist attacks in New York.

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 549 words


The 63-year-old singer, who had hits including Hot Stuff, Love to Love You, Baby
and I Feel Love, died in Florida on Thursday morning.

She had largely kept her battle with lung cancer out of the public eye. But the
website TMZ reported that the singer had told friends she believed her illness
was the result of inhaling toxic dust from the collapsed Twin Towers.

On Thursday night tributes were paid to the singer, considered by many to be the
voice of the 1970s.

A statement released on behalf of her family - husband Bruce Sudano, their
daughters Brooklyn and Amanda, her daughter, Mimi from a previous marriage and
four grandchildren - read: "Early this morning, surrounded by family, we lost
Donna Summer Sudano, a woman of many gifts, the greatest being her faith.

"While we grieve her passing, we are at peace celebrating her extraordinary life
and her continued legacy.

"Words truly can't express how much we appreciate your prayers and love for our
family at this sensitive time."

She had spoken at length about September 11.

In a 2008 interview with The Daily Telegraph, she said she had a premonition
about the attacks a month beforehand. Afterwards she said she suffered from
severe depression and could not leave her Manhattan flat.

"I didn't want to talk to anybody. I had to keep the blinds down and stay in my
bedroom," she said.

Music industry heavyweights spoke of their respect for Summer.

Sir Elton John said: "I'm so sad. This woman was the queen of disco and so much
more.

"That she has never been inducted into the Rock 'n' Roll Hall of Fame is a total
disgrace, especially when I see the second-rate talent that has been inducted.
Her records sound as good today as they ever did."

Quincy Jones, who produced albums for Summer, wrote on Twitter: "Rest in peace
dear Donna Summer. Your voice was the heartbeat and soundtrack of a decade."

Gloria Estefan wrote: "Few singers have impacted music and the world like Donna
Summer! It's the end of an era."

Kylie Minogue said that Summer was "one of my earliest musical inspirations",
while the musician Moby said: "Words can't express the impact and influence she
had on music."

The record producer Pete Waterman, who worked with Summer in the 1980s, said:
"Whenever you were with her she made you feel so special. She had all the talent
but she gave you all the credit. She was not a diva in any shape or form.

"But what a voice she had. She used to warm up in the ladies lavatory and
everyone in our building would stop and it would come to a standstill to hear
her warm up."

Summer's career began in the early 1970s and she was still recording until
recently. She was reportedly working on a new record when she died.

A Christian who was "born again" in 1979, Summer was credited with defining the
disco era, laying the foundations for modern dance music.

She was said to have pioneered the fusion of European electronic music with
American disco and to have influenced acts including David Bowie and Duran
Duran.

She won five Grammy Awards, six American Music Awards, and had three
multi-platinum albums.

In America the title track from her 2008 album, I'm a Fire, took Summer to
number one in the dance charts, making her the first artist to reach the slot in
the Seventies, Eighties, Nineties and the first decade of the new millennium.

LOAD-DATE: May 18, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTNS


                  Copyright 2012 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              332 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                       May 17, 2012 Thursday 8:17 PM GMT

'Queen of Disco' Donna Summer 'thought she became ill after inhalling 9/11
particles';
Donna Summer, the 70s pop singer dubbed the Queen of Disco, has died of lung
cancer, an illness she believes she contracted from inhaling toxic particles
from the 9/11 terror attacks in New York.

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 762 words


The 63-year-old singer, who had hits with Hot Stuff and Love to Love You, Baby,
passed away in Florida on Thursday morning.

The celebrity website TMZ said she had largely kept her battle with lung cancer
out of the public eye.

But the website claimed that sources close to the singer said she believed she
became ill after inhaling dust particles caused by the terror attacks on the
Twin Towers.

Last night tributes were paid to the singer, who for many was considered the
voice of the 70s.

A statement was released on behalf of her family, which includes her husband,
the singer and producer Bruce Sudano, their daughters, Brooklyn and Amanda, her
daughter, Mimi, from a previous marriage and four grandchildren.

It read: "Early this morning, surrounded by family, we lost Donna Summer Sudano,
a woman of many gifts, the greatest being her faith.

"While we grieve her passing, we are at peace celebrating her extraordinary life
and her continued legacy. Words truly can't express how much we appreciate your
prayers and love for our family at this sensitive time."

Tributes from celebrities and those who had worked with Summer were also paid.

Quincy Jones, who produced albums by Summer wrote on Twitter: "Rest in Peace
dear Donna Summer. Your voice was the heartbeat and soundtrack of a decade

Gloria Estefan wrote: "Few singers have impacted music & the world like Donna
Summer! It's the end of an era. Peace & prayers 2 all who loved her. I will miss
her!"

Kylie Minogue said that Summer was "One of my earliest musical inspirations,"
while the musician Moby said: "Words can't express the impact and influence she
had on music."

The record producer Pete Waterman, who worked with Summer in the 1980s, said:
"Whenever you were with her she made you feel so special. She had all the talent
but she gave you all the credit. She was not a diva in any shape or form."

"But what a voice she had. She used to warm up in the ladies lavatory and
everyone in our building would stop and it would come to a standstill to hear
her warm up."

Summer's career began in the early 1970s and she was still producing recently.
She released an album in 2008 and was reportedly working on a new record when
she died.

During her decades of fame Summer, a Christian who was 'born again' in 1979, was
credited with defining the disco era, laying the foundations for modern dance
music.

She is said to have pioneered the fusion of European electronic music with
traditional American disco. And she is said to have influenced acts such as
David Bowie and Duran Duran.

She won five Grammy Awards six American Music Awards, and charted three
multi-platinum albums.

In America the single from the album, I'm a Fire, gave Summer a number one in
the dance charts, making her the first artist to reach the slot in the
Seventies, Eighties, Nineties and Noughties.

There were however controversial moments in her career.

Despite being a gay icon she found herself embroiled in controversy in the mid
1980s when it was alleged that she said that Aids, then a relatively new
disease, was a punishment from God for the immoral lifestyles led by
homosexuals.

Her music was the subject of a boycott by the gay community following the
comments.

In 1989 she wrote a letter to the Aids campaign group ACT UP saying: "The whole
thing was a terrible misunderstanding. I was unknowingly protected by those
around me from the bad press and hate letters ... If I have caused you pain,
forgive me."

Summer also revealed she had attempted suicide at the height of her fame. In her
autobiography Ordinary Girl: The Journey she explains how at the age of 29 she
considered throwing herself off a balcony and was only stopped when her maid
walked into the room.

She had also spoken at length about 9/11. In an interview with the Daily
Telegraph she said she had a premonition about the attacks a month beforehand
and moved from New York City to her home in upstate New York.

Following the attacks she suffered severe depression."I was really freaked out
by the horrific experiences of that day," she said in an interview. "I couldn't
go out, I didn't want to talk to anybody. I had to keep the blinds down and stay
in my bedroom."

Later she is said to have told friends that she believed the attacks were the
cause of her cancer.

Summer will be remembered as the Queen of Disco, but in her Daily Telegraph
interview in 2008 she seemed uncomfortable with the thought of the moniker and
of her death.

Asked if she would like her epitaph to read: 'Donna Summer: she died for disco',
she replied:

"No, not at all! I'd rather live and sing something else."

LOAD-DATE: May 18, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTNS


                  Copyright 2012 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              333 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                       BBC Monitoring Africa - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                              May 18, 2012 Friday

Terror attacks harming Kenyan tourism, say investors

LENGTH: 650 words


Text of report by Mathias Ringa entitled "Investors urge state to beef up
security to improve tourism" published by Kenyan privately-owned newspaper Daily
Nation website on 18 May; subheadings as published

Tourism investors at the coast have called on the government to stem the wave of
insecurity across the region, saying it might adversely affect their industry.

They said a series of terrorist attacks and other crimes recently experienced in
the region could bring tourism on its knees if urgent measures were not put in
place to address the matter.

Kenya Association of Hotelkeepers and Caterers Coast branch vice-chairman,
Vickram Korla, said the kidnapping of several Europeans in Lamu in October last
year was a major blow to tourism in the archipelago.

He said that in March, terrorists simultaneously bombed a Christian prayer
meeting at Mtwapa and a bar in Tononoka, leaving one person dead and 33 others
injured.

Last Monday, two watchmen were killed by unknown attackers who raided the
Independent Electoral Boundaries Commission offices in Msambweni.

Then on Tuesday night, three terrorists lobbed three grenades into Bella Vista
nightclub in Mombasa where one person died while five others are battling for
their lives in hospitals.

Speaking to the Nation yesterday in reaction to the Bella Vista attack, the Mr
Korla said terrorist attacks and thuggery had earned the country a bad image in
Europe and other tourist source markets.

"Time has come for the government to urgently address the frequent terrorist
attacks at the coast as well as the wave of thuggery which is quite alarming,"
he said.

He said the bomb and grenade attacks were beamed around the world by foreign
media to suggest that Kenya was no longer a safe destination for tourists.

Hoteliers and tour operators, he said, were having a rough time convincing
potential tourists to visit the country for holidays.

Mr Korla called on the Kenya Tourist Board [KTB] to find ways of countering the
bad publicity to save the tourism industry.

"There is need for KTB to move with speed and counter the bad publicity caused
by foreign media to rescue the industry," he said.

Alarming levels

Mr Korla, who is also the director of Sentido Hotel Group, pointed out that
crime had reached alarming levels in the South Coast.

A few days ago, gangsters raided the home of a senior hotel manager in Diani and
made away with valuables.

"In Diani the rate of crime is alarming and hoteliers are worried about their
businesses, guests and workers," he said.

Mombasa and Coast Tourist Association chairman Mohamed Hersi blamed the police
for not doing enough to curb crime in the region.

"As tourism stakeholders, we are appalled by the spate of terrorist attacks as
they have caused loss of life and damage to businesses," he said.

He noted that security agencies were only good in responding to crimes which
have already happened, rather than preventing them.

"Instead of preventing crimes, our police are just good at rushing to scenes
when loss of life and damage to property has already occurred

"After an attack is when you will find hundreds of police officers racing to the
scene. Not much is done to prevent crime," he said. However, he was optimistic
that the nightclub attack in Mombasa would not affect tourism now that it is low
tourist season.

Mr Hersi was hopeful that the attacks would not have an impact since tourists
were not targeted.

Pubs, Entertainment and Restaurants Association of Kenya (Perak) former chief
executive officer Sam Ikwaye said the association would soon hold sensitization
campaigns for its members to prevent attacks.

He said they planned to hold awareness campaigns in Nairobi on 7 June and
Mombasa on 20 June.

Mr Ikwaye added that the association would involve bomb experts in the awareness
drives to equip Perak members with knowledge on how to overcome attacks.

Source: Daily Nation website, Nairobi, in English 18 May 12

LOAD-DATE: May 18, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2012 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              334 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                       BBC Monitoring Europe - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                              May 18, 2012 Friday

Intelligence bodies fear imminent Iran-backed terror attack in Latin America

LENGTH: 580 words


Text of report by Italian leading privately-owned centre-right daily Corriere
della Sera website, on 17 May

[Report by Guido Olimpio: "The Facilitator Who Studies Terrorist Attacks in
Latin America: His Targets Include Brazil and Colombia"]

Washington - The intelligence services are on the alert. A terrorist group close
to Iran is reportedly ready to strike in Latin America. Three countries are
thought to be potential theatres: Brazil, Colombia, and Bolivia. The operation
is coordinated by Adam Reef [name as published], a Lebanese citizen who is
extremely familiar with the region and who is a member of a larger network that
has already been active in recent months. Let us take a step back. Two cells
linked to Tehran were identified in Asia back in February. The first, comprising
four to six people, was neutralized in Bangkok after an accidental explosion
took place in its apartment-cum-lair. The second cell, on the other hand, sought
to kill an Israeli diplomat in New Delhi, India. An investigation conducted in
the two countries led to the identification of a network managed by the Qods
Army, a secret apparatus close to the Pasdaran. Those taken into custody
confessed a few things. Names emerged, and those names included also that of
Lebanese citizen Adam Reef.

The Facilitator

The security services consider him to be a "facilitator." a man capable of
recruiting, helping, and priming hit groups. The Lebanese works in a 360-degree
range but his customary operations front is Latin America. And, using certain
support bases, he is capable of putting the right men together. Right now it is
not clear whether the attack is meant to be carried out by members of "Qods" or
by the Lebanese Hizballah. It is also a possibility that the choice may fall on
"new" individuals, possibly hired exclusively for this mission. That is what
inquiries suggest happened in Thailand and in India. The Iranians provide
funding and technical advice. If necessary, they also provide the explosive
devices.

The Bombs

In the two Asian countries the terrorists were supposed to use magnetic bombs:
According to disclosures, the bombs are reported to have been made by the same
hand. Moreover, they seconded an explosives expert to Bangkok. Though
identified, he succeeded in fleeing to Iran, as did a woman who was in charge of
the logistics. This method has its pros and its cons, because while it is true
that these "agents" are virtually always unknown to the police, it is equally
true that they do not have the same expertise as the "professionals." But they
can suffice for the job.

Latin America

The Iranians and Hizballah began to develop a clandestine presence in Latin
America back in the 1990s, and not just to engage in propaganda, either.
Pro-Iranian terrorists struck in Argentina in 1992 and in 1994, attacking the
Israeli Embassy in Buenos Aires (when 29 people died) and the Jewish Amia Centre
(where 85 people were killed). The network has expanded since then, drumming up
support in Venezuela, in Paraguay, and in many border cities, not to mention in
high-density trading areas. This is the "environment" in which Adam Reef moves.
This is where he can recruit his men, who may be members of the Shi'i community,
but also people prepared to act in return for money. According to security
sources, Reef really is a "walking bomb," in the sense that he could give the
green light for an attack at any moment.

Source: Corriere della Sera website, Milan, in Italian 17 May 12

LOAD-DATE: May 18, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2012 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              335 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                    BBC Monitoring Latin America - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                             May 19, 2012 Saturday

Costa Rican authorities on alert over possible terrorist attack

LENGTH: 320 words


Text of report by Costa Rican newspaper La Nacion website on 17 May

[Report by Ferlin Fuentes: "Country in Alert Over Terrorist Threat"]

The country's airports, borders, and ports are in a state of alert due to the
possibility of terrorist attacks in the American continent.

This was confirmed by Narcotics Commissioner Mauricio Boraschi, who explained
that the notice became effective yesterday and will extend until tomorrow, for a
total of 72 hours.

"The possibility of terrorist attacks is applicable throughout America and no
specific country is being indicated. Special attention is being given to the
profiles of migratory flows; we want no surprises," Boraschi said.

The threats are being attributed to Hezbollah, an Islamic organization founded
at Lebanon in 1982 as a reaction to the Israeli intervention. The group is an
ally of Syria and Iran, and it is led b y Sayyed Hassan Nasrala.

"The alert is issued by an anti-terrorist network which links countries such as
the United States, Chile, and Brazil," the commissioner said.

According to Boraschi, special shock groups are prepared in Costa Rica, in
coordination with the Red Cross and Firemen's Corps.

The information being handled mentions no specific country where the attack may
take place.

"That is why we are alert to any suspicious looking person. We want no problems
here and neither do we want to serve as a crossing. The alert is effective
everywhere that serves as an entry point. Ports, airports, borders, and Police
posts," he said.

Sayyed Hassan Nasrala issued a warning from Beirut on Friday; he warned Israel
that, if it attacks Lebanese territory again, its militias are prepared to
retaliate with the same force and not only against Tel Aviv.

He also accused Israel, along with the United States and its western allies, of
trying to destroy Syria, whose regime is supported by the Shi'i group.

Source: La Nacion website, San Jose, in Spanish 17 May 12

LOAD-DATE: May 19, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2012 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              336 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                       BBC Monitoring Europe - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                             May 19, 2012 Saturday

Turkey: One killed, three wounded in alleged terrorist attack

LENGTH: 118 words


Text of report in English by Turkish semi-official news agency Anatolia

Hakkari, 19 May: One worker died and three others were wounded in a terrorist
attack in the southeastern province of Hakkari on Saturday.

Deputy Hakkari Governor Onder Bozkurt said that terrorists opened fire on a
group of people who were working in construction of a military outpost in
Yesilova village of Hakkari's Semdinli town early on Saturday.

"One worker died and three others were wounded in the attack," Bozkurt told AA
correspondent.

Bozkurt said the injured were hospitalized in Hakkari, adding that a wide-scale
operation had been launched to capture terrorists.

Source: Anatolia news agency, Ankara, in English 0647 gmt 19 May 12

LOAD-DATE: May 19, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2012 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              337 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                   MailOnline

                       May 19, 2012 Saturday 9:45 PM GMT

Pictured: Three men accused of Chicago NATO summit terror plot who 'planned to
attack Obama's HQ'

BYLINE: SNEJANA FARBEROV

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 1186 words



     ·    Three men were allegedly planning to target President Obama's
          headquarters
     ·    Also allegedly targeting Chicago Mayor Rahm Emanuel's home
     ·    Court documents state police seized weapons from the apartment where
          the suspects were staying


Three men accused of making Molotov cocktails had been planning to attack
President Barack Obama's campaign headquarters, Mayor Rahm Emanuel's home and
other targets during this weekend's NATO summit, prosecutors said Saturday.

The suspects have been identified as Brian Church, 20, of Fort Lauderdale,
Florida; Jared Chase, 24, of Keene, New Hampshire; and Brent Vincent Betterly,
24, of Oakland Park, Massachusetts.

They are each being held on $1.5million bail. The trio is facing charges of
conspiracy to commit terrorism, possession of an explosive or incendiary device
and providing material support.

During the Wednesday night raid, police seized four completed Molotov cocktails
in beer bottles and weapons, including a mortar gun, swords, a hunting bow,
throwing stars and knives with brass knuckle handles, according to
law-enforcement records cited by the  South Florida Sun-Sentinel.

The suspects also had protective gear such as pre-positioned shields, assault
vests and gas masks to help hide their identity during the planned attacks,
prosecutors said.

Court documents indicate that authorities likely have audio recordings of the
suspects discussing their plot, which allegedly included attacking other
jurisdictions. The trio also talked about planned escape routes and held
late-night training sessions for engaging in combat with police, prosecutors
said.

'The city doesn't know what it's in for,' an undisclosed defendant is quoted as
saying in court records.

The three young men apparently came to Chicago late last month to take part in
May Day protests. Six others arrested Wednesday in the raid were released Friday
without being charged.

Defense attorneys alleged that the arrests were an effort to intimidate the
thousands of people expected to stage protests during the meeting of world
leaders.

They told a judge that undercover police were the ones who brought the Molotov
cocktails.

'This is just propaganda to create a climate of fear,' defense attorney Michael
Duetsch said.

Later, outside the courtroom, Duetsch said two undercover police officers or
informants who called themselves 'Mo' and 'Gloves' were also arrested during the
Wednesday raid, and defense attorneys said they later lost track of the two.

'We believe this is all a setup and entrapment to the highest degree,' Duetsch
said.

Chicago police Lt. Kenneth Stoppa declined to elaborate on the case beyond
confirming the charges against the three who were still in custody.

The suspects' attorney, Sarah Gelsomino, said her clients are 'absolutely in
shock and have no idea where these charges are coming from.'

Activist Bill Vassilakis, who told the New York Daily News that he let the men
stay in his apartment, described Betterly as an industrial electrician who had
volunteered to help wire service at The Plant, a former meatpacking facility
that has been turned into a food incubator.

Vassilakis described the 24-year-old as a 'stand-up' guy and said that the
charges against him were unwarranted.

'He and the other guys had done nothing but volunteer their time and energy,' he
said.'

Betterly appears to have a history of minor run-ins with law enforcement.

The South Florida Sun-Sentinel reported that in February, Betterly was cited for
disorderly intoxication after taking a swim in a high school swimming pool and
vandalizing the cafeteria. The case, however, was later dismissed.

Chase grew up in New Hampshire and moved to Boston a few years ago before
becoming active in the Occupy movement, said his aunt, Barbara Chase.

Church is an emergency medical technician and is studying to become a paramedic,
according to his mother, who asked to remain anonymous. She added that her son
supports the Occupy movement and traveled to Chicago in late April to join the
anti-NATO protests.

One of the other six protesters who were jailed and released, activist Darrin
Annussek, of Philadelphia, denied there were Molotov cocktails, or the raw
materials needed to make them, in the apartment.

'No way,' Annussek told reporters after his release. 'If I had seen anything
that even resembled [a Molotov cocktail], I would have left.'

Annussek claimed that during 18 hours in custody, police never told him why he
was arrested, read him his rights or allowed him to make a phone call. He said
he remained handcuffed to a bench, even after asking to use a restroom.

'There were guards walking by making statements into the door along the lines of
`hippie,' `communist,' `pinko,'' he said.

According to law enforcement officials, the Wednesday raid was the culmination
of a month-long investigation into a group suspected of making Molotov cocktails
- homemade bombs created by filling glass bottles with gasoline, the  Chicago
Tribune reported.

However, the National Lawyers Guild, which is representing the three suspects,
said they had beer-making equipment when the apartment they were staying at was
swarmed by officers dressed in black and armed with battering rams and guns.

The men also were in a car that was stopped by police a week ago, leading to a
YouTube video of the stop that has prompted protesters to complain Chicago
Police were harassing the occupants, their attorney said.

The two-day NATO summit will get under way on Sunday, bringing together
delegations from some 60 nations, including 50 heads of state, who will discuss
the war in Afghanistan and the European missile defense plan.

On the first day of the talks, thousands of protesters are expected to march
two-and-a-half miles to the McCormick Place convention center, where delegates
will be meeting.

Security has been high in Chicago in anticipation of the high-profile, although
the protests have been marked by relatively few arrests.

On Friday, police officers on bicycles and foot followed throngs of noisy
activists through the streets of the city, but ignored taunts in an effort to
avoid detaining people.

In all, police said there was a single arrest on a charge of aggravated battery
of a police officer. Another man was briefly taken into custody, but was
released shortly after.

Also, officers were seen trying to arrest a man who scaled a bridge tower and
pulled down part of a NATO banner. Earlier, police handcuffed a man at the end
of a raucous but largely peaceful rally organized by National Nurses United, one
of the largest nurses' union.

Participants of the rally demanded a 'Robin Hood' tax on banks' financial
transactions. The event drew several thousand people and featured a performance
by former Rage Against the Machine guitarist Tom Morello, an activist who has
played at many Occupy events.

At one point, on the bridge at Michigan Avenue, the gateway to the city's famed
shopping district, the Magnificent Mile, the number of officers swelled and they
appeared ready to forcibly remove dozens of protesters who sat in the middle of
street. Instead, police simply waited for the demonstrators to leave on their
own.

LOAD-DATE: May 19, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDM


                   Copyright 2012 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              338 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                   MailOnline

                       May 19, 2012 Saturday 9:11 PM GMT

Pictured: Three men accused of Chicago NATO summit terror plot who 'planned to
attack Obama's HQ'

BYLINE: SNEJANA FARBEROV

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 871 words



     ·    Three men were allegedly planning to target President Obama's
          headquarters
     ·    Also allegedly targeting Chicago Mayor Rahm Emanuel's home


Three men accused of making Molotov cocktails had been planning to attack
President Barack Obama's campaign headquarters, Mayor Rahm Emanuel's home and
other targets during this weekend's NATO summit, prosecutors said Saturday.

The suspects have been identified as Brian Church, 20, of Fort Lauderdale,
Florida; Jared Chase, 24, of Keene, New Hampshire; and Brent Vincent Betterly,
24, of Oakland Park, Massachusetts.

They are each being held on $1.5million bail.

All three are facing a bond hearing today in connection with charges of
conspiracy to commit terrorism, possession of an explosive or incendiary device
and providing material support.

They apparently came to Chicago late last month to take part in May Day
protests. Six others arrested Wednesday in the raid were released Friday without
being charged.

Defence attorneys alleged that the arrests were an effort to scare the thousands
of people expected to protest at the meeting of world leaders.

They told a judge that undercover police were the ones who brought the Molotov
cocktails.

'This is just propaganda to create a climate of fear,' defence attorney Michael
Duetsch said.

Later, outside the courtroom, Duetsch said two undercover police officers or
informants who called themselves 'Mo' and 'Gloves' were also arrested during the
Wednesday raid, and defence attorneys said they later lost track of the two.

'We believe this is all a setup and entrapment to the highest degree,' Duetsch
said.

The trio was charged with providing material support for terrorism, conspiracy
to commit terrorism and possession of explosives.

Chicago police Lt. Kenneth Stoppa declined to elaborate on the case beyond
confirming the charges against the three who were still in custody.

The suspects' attorney, Sarah Gelsomino, said her clients are 'absolutely in
shock and have no idea where these charges are coming from.'

Six others initially arrested during the Wednesday raid of a South Side
apartment were released on Friday without being charged with any crime.

One of the jailed protesters, Occupy activist Darrin Annussek, of Philadelphia,
denied there were Molotov cocktails, or the raw materials needed to make them,
in the apartment.

'No way,' Annussek told reporters after his release. 'If I had seen anything
that even resembled [a Molotov cocktail], I would have left.'

Annussek claimed that during 18 hours in custody, police never told him why he
was arrested, read him his rights or allowed him to make a phone call. He said
he remained handcuffed to a bench, even after asking to use a restroom.

'There were guards walking by making statements into the door along the lines of
`hippie,' `communist,' `pinko,'' he said.

According to law enforcement officials, the Wednesday raid was the culmination
of a month-long investigation into a group suspected of making Molotov cocktails
- homemade bombs created by filling glass bottles with gasoline, the  Chicago
Tribune reported.

However, the National Lawyers Guild, which is representing the three suspects,
said they had beer-making equipment when the apartment they were staying at was
swarmed by officers dressed in black and armed with battering rams and guns.

The men also were in a car that was stopped by police a week ago, leading to a
YouTube video of the stop that has prompted protesters to complain Chicago
Police were harassing the occupants, their attorney said.

The two-day NATO summit will get under way on Sunday, bringing together
delegations from some 60 nations, including 50 heads of state, who will discuss
the war in Afghanistan and the European missile defense plan.

On the first day of the talks, thousands of protesters are expected to march
two-and-a-half miles to the McCormick Place convention center, where delegates
will be meeting.

Security has been high in Chicago in anticipation of the high-profile, although
the protests have been marked by relatively few arrests.

On Friday, police officers on bicycles and foot followed throngs of noisy
activists through the streets of the city, but ignored taunts in an effort to
avoid detaining people.

In all, police said there was a single arrest on a charge of aggravated battery
of a police officer. Another man was briefly taken into custody, but was
released shortly after.

Also, officers were seen trying to arrest a man who scaled a bridge tower and
pulled down part of a NATO banner. Earlier, police handcuffed a man at the end
of a raucous but largely peaceful rally organized by National Nurses United, one
of the largest nurses' union.

Participants of the rally demanded a 'Robin Hood' tax on banks' financial
transactions. The event drew several thousand people and featured a performance
by former Rage Against the Machine guitarist Tom Morello, an activist who has
played at many Occupy events.

At one point, on the bridge at Michigan Avenue, the gateway to the city's famed
shopping district, the Magnificent Mile, the number of officers swelled and they
appeared ready to forcibly remove dozens of protesters who sat in the middle of
street. Instead, police simply waited for the demonstrators to leave on their
own.

LOAD-DATE: May 19, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDM


                   Copyright 2012 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              339 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                   MailOnline

                        May 20, 2012 Sunday 5:57 PM GMT

Police bust two more men for 'plotting terrorist attacks' at NATO summit in
Chicago... bringing total arrests to five

BYLINE: DAILY MAIL REPORTER

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 1377 words



     ·    Sebastian Senakiewicz, 24, and Mark Neiweem, 22, are the latest
          suspects
     ·    Neiweem is a self-professed member of the Anarchists Black Cross
     ·    Three men were allegedly planning to target President Obama's
          headquarters
     ·    Also allegedly targeting Chicago Mayor Rahm Emanuel's home
     ·    Court documents state police seized weapons from the apartment where
          the suspects were staying


Two more men have been arrested on terrorism charges ahead of the NATO summit in
Chicago, bringing the total number of alleged conspirators to five.

It's unknown whether Sebastian Senakiewicz, 24, and Mark Neiweem, 22, both of
Chicago, were part of the same plot that led police to bust three out-of-state
activists last last week.

Those men; Brian Church, 20, of Fort Lauderdale, Florida; Jared Chase, 24, of
Keene, New Hampshire; and Brent Vincent Betterly, 24, of Oakland Park,
Massachusetts; allegedly planned to use Molotov cocktails to attack President
Barack Obama's campaign headquarters, Mayor Rahm Emanuel's home and several
police stations.

The Chicago Tribune reports that Senakiewcz was arrested Thursday on charges of
terrorism and making a false threat. Prosecutors say he had been planning with
at least three other people to use Molotov cocktails in an attack at the NATO
summit.

Neiweem faces charges of attempted possession of explosives, as well as
terrorism and making a false threat.

Nieweem is a member of the Anarchist Black Cross and is active on anarchist
message boards, WLS-TV reports.

In April, he gave a presentation called 'Why This Isn't Scary: Anarchy,
Communism, Socialism and The Black Bloc' at a protect called Chicago Spring.

He is currently on probation from a 2010 arrest after he punched a Chicago
police officer, who tried to question him.

The first three suspect, who were arrested Wednesday, are each being held on
$1.5million bail. The trio is facing charges of conspiracy to commit terrorism,
possession of an explosive or incendiary device and providing material support.

During the Wednesday night raid, police seized four completed Molotov cocktails
in beer bottles and weapons, including a mortar gun, swords, a hunting bow,
throwing stars and knives with brass knuckle handles, according to
law-enforcement records cited by the  South Florida Sun-Sentinel.

The suspects also had protective gear such as pre-positioned shields, assault
vests and gas masks to help hide their identity during the planned attacks,
prosecutors said.

Court documents indicate that authorities likely have audio recordings of the
suspects discussing their plot, which allegedly included attacking other
jurisdictions. The trio also talked about planned escape routes and held
late-night training sessions for engaging in combat with police, prosecutors
said.

'The city doesn't know what it's in for,' an undisclosed defendant is quoted as
saying in court records.

The three young men apparently came to Chicago late last month to take part in
May Day protests. Six others arrested Wednesday in the raid were released Friday
without being charged.

Defense attorneys alleged that the arrests were an effort to intimidate the
thousands of people expected to stage protests during the meeting of world
leaders.

They told a judge that undercover police were the ones who brought the Molotov
cocktails.

'This is just propaganda to create a climate of fear,' defense attorney Michael
Duetsch said.

Later, outside the courtroom, Duetsch said two undercover police officers or
informants who called themselves 'Mo' and 'Gloves' were also arrested during the
Wednesday raid, and defense attorneys said they later lost track of the two.

'We believe this is all a setup and entrapment to the highest degree,' Duetsch
said.

Chicago police Lt. Kenneth Stoppa declined to elaborate on the case beyond
confirming the charges against the three who were still in custody.

The suspects' attorney, Sarah Gelsomino, said her clients are 'absolutely in
shock and have no idea where these charges are coming from.'

Activist Bill Vassilakis, who told the New York Daily News that he let the men
stay in his apartment, described Betterly as an industrial electrician who had
volunteered to help wire service at The Plant, a former meatpacking facility
that has been turned into a food incubator.

Vassilakis described the 24-year-old as a 'stand-up' guy and said that the
charges against him were unwarranted.

'He and the other guys had done nothing but volunteer their time and energy,' he
said.'

Betterly appears to have a history of minor run-ins with law enforcement.

The South Florida Sun-Sentinel reported that in February, Betterly was cited for
disorderly intoxication after taking a swim in a high school swimming pool and
vandalizing the cafeteria. The case, however, was later dismissed.

Chase grew up in New Hampshire and moved to Boston a few years ago before
becoming active in the Occupy movement, said his aunt, Barbara Chase.

Church is an emergency medical technician and is studying to become a paramedic,
according to his mother, who asked to remain anonymous. She added that her son
supports the Occupy movement and traveled to Chicago in late April to join the
anti-NATO protests.

One of the other six protesters who were jailed and released, activist Darrin
Annussek, of Philadelphia, denied there were Molotov cocktails, or the raw
materials needed to make them, in the apartment.

'No way,' Annussek told reporters after his release. 'If I had seen anything
that even resembled [a Molotov cocktail], I would have left.'

Annussek claimed that during 18 hours in custody, police never told him why he
was arrested, read him his rights or allowed him to make a phone call. He said
he remained handcuffed to a bench, even after asking to use a restroom.

'There were guards walking by making statements into the door along the lines of
`hippie,' `communist,' `pinko,'' he said.

According to law enforcement officials, the Wednesday raid was the culmination
of a month-long investigation into a group suspected of making Molotov cocktails
- homemade bombs created by filling glass bottles with gasoline, the  Chicago
Tribune reported.

However, the National Lawyers Guild, which is representing the three suspects,
said they had beer-making equipment when the apartment they were staying at was
swarmed by officers dressed in black and armed with battering rams and guns.

The men also were in a car that was stopped by police a week ago, leading to a
YouTube video of the stop that has prompted protesters to complain Chicago
Police were harassing the occupants, their attorney said.

The two-day NATO summit will get under way on Sunday, bringing together
delegations from some 60 nations, including 50 heads of state, who will discuss
the war in Afghanistan and the European missile defense plan.

On the first day of the talks, thousands of protesters are expected to march
two-and-a-half miles to the McCormick Place convention center, where delegates
will be meeting.

Security has been high in Chicago in anticipation of the high-profile, although
the protests have been marked by relatively few arrests.

On Friday, police officers on bicycles and foot followed throngs of noisy
activists through the streets of the city, but ignored taunts in an effort to
avoid detaining people.

In all, police said there was a single arrest on a charge of aggravated battery
of a police officer. Another man was briefly taken into custody, but was
released shortly after.

Also, officers were seen trying to arrest a man who scaled a bridge tower and
pulled down part of a NATO banner. Earlier, police handcuffed a man at the end
of a raucous but largely peaceful rally organized by National Nurses United, one
of the largest nurses' union.

Participants of the rally demanded a 'Robin Hood' tax on banks' financial
transactions. The event drew several thousand people and featured a performance
by former Rage Against the Machine guitarist Tom Morello, an activist who has
played at many Occupy events.

At one point, on the bridge at Michigan Avenue, the gateway to the city's famed
shopping district, the Magnificent Mile, the number of officers swelled and they
appeared ready to forcibly remove dozens of protesters who sat in the middle of
street. Instead, police simply waited for the demonstrators to leave on their
own.

LOAD-DATE: May 21, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDM


                   Copyright 2012 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              340 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                   MailOnline

                        May 20, 2012 Sunday 5:51 PM GMT

Police bust two more men for 'plotting terrorist attacks' at NATO summit in
Chicago... bringing total arrests to five

BYLINE: DAILY MAIL REPORTER

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 1355 words



     ·    Three men were allegedly planning to target President Obama's
          headquarters
     ·    Also allegedly targeting Chicago Mayor Rahm Emanuel's home
     ·    Court documents state police seized weapons from the apartment where
          the suspects were staying


Two more men have been arrested on terrorism charges ahead of the NATO summit in
Chicago, bringing the total number of alleged conspirators to five.

It's unknown whether Sebastian Senakiewicz, 24, and Mark Neiweem, 22, both of
Chicago, were part of the same plot that led police to bust three out-of-state
activists last last week.

Those men; Brian Church, 20, of Fort Lauderdale, Florida; Jared Chase, 24, of
Keene, New Hampshire; and Brent Vincent Betterly, 24, of Oakland Park,
Massachusetts; allegedly planned to use Molotov cocktails to attack President
Barack Obama's campaign headquarters, Mayor Rahm Emanuel's home and several
police stations.

The Chicago Tribune reports that Senakiewcz was arrested Thursday on charges of
terrorism and making a false threat. Prosecutors say he had been planning with
at least three other people to use Molotov cocktails in an attack at the NATO
summit.

Neiweem faces charges of attempted possession of explosives, as well as
terrorism and making a false threat.

Nieweem is a member of the Anarchist Black Cross and is active on anarchist
message boards, WLS-TV reports.

In April, he gave a presentation called 'Why This Isn't Scary: Anarchy,
Communism, Socialism and The Black Bloc' at a protect called Chicago Spring.

He is currently on probation from a 2010 arrest after he punched a Chicago
police officer, who tried to question him.

The first three suspect, who were arrested Wednesday, are each being held on
$1.5million bail. The trio is facing charges of conspiracy to commit terrorism,
possession of an explosive or incendiary device and providing material support.

During the Wednesday night raid, police seized four completed Molotov cocktails
in beer bottles and weapons, including a mortar gun, swords, a hunting bow,
throwing stars and knives with brass knuckle handles, according to
law-enforcement records cited by the  South Florida Sun-Sentinel.

The suspects also had protective gear such as pre-positioned shields, assault
vests and gas masks to help hide their identity during the planned attacks,
prosecutors said.

Court documents indicate that authorities likely have audio recordings of the
suspects discussing their plot, which allegedly included attacking other
jurisdictions. The trio also talked about planned escape routes and held
late-night training sessions for engaging in combat with police, prosecutors
said.

'The city doesn't know what it's in for,' an undisclosed defendant is quoted as
saying in court records.

The three young men apparently came to Chicago late last month to take part in
May Day protests. Six others arrested Wednesday in the raid were released Friday
without being charged.

Defense attorneys alleged that the arrests were an effort to intimidate the
thousands of people expected to stage protests during the meeting of world
leaders.

They told a judge that undercover police were the ones who brought the Molotov
cocktails.

'This is just propaganda to create a climate of fear,' defense attorney Michael
Duetsch said.

Later, outside the courtroom, Duetsch said two undercover police officers or
informants who called themselves 'Mo' and 'Gloves' were also arrested during the
Wednesday raid, and defense attorneys said they later lost track of the two.

'We believe this is all a setup and entrapment to the highest degree,' Duetsch
said.

Chicago police Lt. Kenneth Stoppa declined to elaborate on the case beyond
confirming the charges against the three who were still in custody.

The suspects' attorney, Sarah Gelsomino, said her clients are 'absolutely in
shock and have no idea where these charges are coming from.'

Activist Bill Vassilakis, who told the New York Daily News that he let the men
stay in his apartment, described Betterly as an industrial electrician who had
volunteered to help wire service at The Plant, a former meatpacking facility
that has been turned into a food incubator.

Vassilakis described the 24-year-old as a 'stand-up' guy and said that the
charges against him were unwarranted.

'He and the other guys had done nothing but volunteer their time and energy,' he
said.'

Betterly appears to have a history of minor run-ins with law enforcement.

The South Florida Sun-Sentinel reported that in February, Betterly was cited for
disorderly intoxication after taking a swim in a high school swimming pool and
vandalizing the cafeteria. The case, however, was later dismissed.

Chase grew up in New Hampshire and moved to Boston a few years ago before
becoming active in the Occupy movement, said his aunt, Barbara Chase.

Church is an emergency medical technician and is studying to become a paramedic,
according to his mother, who asked to remain anonymous. She added that her son
supports the Occupy movement and traveled to Chicago in late April to join the
anti-NATO protests.

One of the other six protesters who were jailed and released, activist Darrin
Annussek, of Philadelphia, denied there were Molotov cocktails, or the raw
materials needed to make them, in the apartment.

'No way,' Annussek told reporters after his release. 'If I had seen anything
that even resembled [a Molotov cocktail], I would have left.'

Annussek claimed that during 18 hours in custody, police never told him why he
was arrested, read him his rights or allowed him to make a phone call. He said
he remained handcuffed to a bench, even after asking to use a restroom.

'There were guards walking by making statements into the door along the lines of
`hippie,' `communist,' `pinko,'' he said.

According to law enforcement officials, the Wednesday raid was the culmination
of a month-long investigation into a group suspected of making Molotov cocktails
- homemade bombs created by filling glass bottles with gasoline, the  Chicago
Tribune reported.

However, the National Lawyers Guild, which is representing the three suspects,
said they had beer-making equipment when the apartment they were staying at was
swarmed by officers dressed in black and armed with battering rams and guns.

The men also were in a car that was stopped by police a week ago, leading to a
YouTube video of the stop that has prompted protesters to complain Chicago
Police were harassing the occupants, their attorney said.

The two-day NATO summit will get under way on Sunday, bringing together
delegations from some 60 nations, including 50 heads of state, who will discuss
the war in Afghanistan and the European missile defense plan.

On the first day of the talks, thousands of protesters are expected to march
two-and-a-half miles to the McCormick Place convention center, where delegates
will be meeting.

Security has been high in Chicago in anticipation of the high-profile, although
the protests have been marked by relatively few arrests.

On Friday, police officers on bicycles and foot followed throngs of noisy
activists through the streets of the city, but ignored taunts in an effort to
avoid detaining people.

In all, police said there was a single arrest on a charge of aggravated battery
of a police officer. Another man was briefly taken into custody, but was
released shortly after.

Also, officers were seen trying to arrest a man who scaled a bridge tower and
pulled down part of a NATO banner. Earlier, police handcuffed a man at the end
of a raucous but largely peaceful rally organized by National Nurses United, one
of the largest nurses' union.

Participants of the rally demanded a 'Robin Hood' tax on banks' financial
transactions. The event drew several thousand people and featured a performance
by former Rage Against the Machine guitarist Tom Morello, an activist who has
played at many Occupy events.

At one point, on the bridge at Michigan Avenue, the gateway to the city's famed
shopping district, the Magnificent Mile, the number of officers swelled and they
appeared ready to forcibly remove dozens of protesters who sat in the middle of
street. Instead, police simply waited for the demonstrators to leave on their
own.

LOAD-DATE: May 21, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDM


                   Copyright 2012 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              341 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                   MailOnline

                        May 20, 2012 Sunday 5:16 PM GMT

U.S. Army instructor seriously wounded in terrorist attack while teaching Yemeni
coastguards

BYLINE: REUTERS REPORTER

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 285 words


A U.S. military instructor helping train Yemeni coastguards was shot and
seriously wounded in an attack by unidentified assailants in the Red Sea city of
Hudaida on Sunday, a Yemeni security source said.

The source said two other U.S. instructors, who were traveling in the same car,
were not hurt in the attack, which happened before noon on the group's journey
to work.

A caller told Reuters by telephone - not the group's usual method of
communication - that the al Qaeda-linked Ansar al-Sharia group was behind the
attack.

The authenticity of the claim could not immediately be verified.

'The gunmen were traveling by car and they hit one of the Americans and his
condition is serious,' the Yemeni security source said.

He said the two other men were unhurt.

Officials at the U.S. embassy in Sanaa said they were checking the report.

U.S. military instructors are helping train the Yemeni armed forces, who are
waging a battle against al Qaeda-linked militants in southern Yemen, seen by the
United States as a major threat to its security.

The attack was the latest in a series of security incidents in Hudaida over the
past two months.

In March, a Swiss woman was kidnapped at gunpoint in Hudaida as she left a
privately owned language institute where she taught English.

She said in a video posted online earlier this month that she was being held by
al Qaeda militants and asked Swiss authorities to help secure her release.

In April, a French official of the International Committee of the Red Cross was
also kidnapped while traveling from northern Yemen to Hudaida.

A tribal source later said he had been transported to the southern town of Jaar,
an Islamist militant stronghold, where he is still being held.

LOAD-DATE: May 21, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDM


                   Copyright 2012 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              342 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                                  Sunday Mail

                              May 20, 2012, Sunday

AT FIRST I THOUGHT IT WAS ROAD RAGE;
PC STEWART FERGUSON WAS OFF DUTY WHEN HE BECAME CAUGHT UP IN THE TERRORIST
ATTACK AT GLASGOW AIRPORT. OUR PICTURE OF HIM TRYING TO DOUSE BURNING PLOTTER
KAFEEL AHMED, 28, WHO LATER DIED, WAS SEEN AROUND THE WORLD.

SECTION: FEATURES; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 285 words


Iwas at the airport picking up relatives when I saw this Jeep suddenly crash
into the terminal.

At first I thought it was a road rage incident, but then realised it was much
more serious.

I had been chatting to a police colleague, Sergeant Torquil Campbell, who was
based at the airport, and we both ran over.

The Jeep's driver, Iraqi doctor Bilal Abdulla, got out and started attacking
Torquil.

Then Kafeel Ahmed got out and set himself ablaze while shouting "Allahu Akbar".

I grabbed a fire extinguisher and sprayed this human fireball in front of me who
was well ablaze - his clothing, hair and skin.

He seemed to get a second wind and started staggering around the road in a daze,
punching wildly at anyone that came near him. I had no memory of the moment of
me pointing the fire extinguisher at him, but the photo was on the front of the
Sunday Mail the next day and was later used around the world.

I knew he was one of the bad guys, but it never entered my mind to walk away
because that would have been failing in my duty.

One of the primary duties of a police officer is to preserve life and it doesn't
matter whose life that is. But I don't see myself as a hero.

It was certainly the most high-profile incident I've been involved in and I wear
my Queen's Commendation for Bravery on my uniform as a daily reminder of that
day.

Some people ask what it is and I tell them, but sometimes it's just easier to
show them a copy of the Sunday Mail photo, which I keep in my wallet.

I'm now coming up for 27 years of service and I'm looking forward to the summer
when I'll be spending a week working at the Olympics.

The Met has drafted in officers from all over the country - I just hope my
previous skills won't be needed.

LOAD-DATE: May 20, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: 30 JUNE 2007Offduty PC Stewart Ferguson tries to save terrorist Kafeel
Ahmed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


            Copyright 2012 Scottish Daily Record & Sunday Mail Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              343 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring Middle East - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                              May 21, 2012 Monday

Syria condemns Yemen "terrorist attack"

LENGTH: 185 words


Text of report in English by state-run Syrian news agency SANA website

["Foreign and expatriates ministry strongly condemns terrorist bombing in Yemeni
capital" - SANA Headline]

Damascus, (SANA) - The Foreign and Expatriates Ministry strongly condemned the
terrorist attack carried out by a suicide bomber in Al-Sab'in Plaza in the
Yemeni capital, which resulted in hundreds of deaths and injuries.

In a statement issued on Monday [21 May], the ministry stressed that terrorism
has no religion nor country, and that Al-Qa'idah which attacked Damascus and
other cities recently has targeted the Yemeni capital of Sana'a, adding that
"the blood which was shed in Yemen and the blood that was shed in Syria are one
and the same."

The ministry offered its sincerest condolences to the government and people of
Yemen over the martyrs who fell in the bombing, expressing full solidarity and
offering deepest sympathies to the families of victims, wishing the wounded a
quick recovery, and hoping that security and stability will be restored in
Yemen.

H. Sabbagh

Source: SANA news agency website, Damascus in English 21 May 12

LOAD-DATE: May 21, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2012 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              344 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                                  Daily Record

                              May 21, 2012, Monday

DON'T MOURN HORROR THIS MONSTER [...];
'DAY TO REMEMBER ALL THE 270 VICTIMS' HUNT ON FOR OTHERS BEHIND TERROR ATTACK

BYLINE: Mark McGivern

SECTION: NEWS; FRONT PAGE; Pg. 1,2,3

LENGTH: 1568 words


PROSECUTORS will step up their bid to bring the Lockerbie bomber's accomplices
to justice after his death yesterday.

Abdelbaset al-Megrahi died of cancer nearly three years after being freed from a
Scottish prison and sent home to Libya to die.

David Cameron said: "Today is a day to remember the 270 people who died in what
was an appalling terrorist act."

And Susan Cohen, whose Turn to Page 2

From Page One daughter Theodora, 20, died in the atrocity, said: "I detest
Megrahi, he was monstrous, and I hope his death was extremely painful and
horrible."

The Scottish Government said they want the probe into the bombing to continue
after top prosecutor Frank Mullholland met FBI chief Robert Mueller in Libya.

But Jim Swire inisted Megrahi was innocent. Swire, who lost his daughter Flora
in the bombing and is part of the Justice For Megrahi group, said: "It's a very
sad event."

David Ben-Ayreah, a spokesman for some British victims, said: "As someone who
attended the trial, I have never taken the view that Megrahi was guilty. He is
the 271st victim of Lockerbie."

First Minister Alex Salmond said: "Our first thoughts are with the families of
the Lockerbie atrocity, whose pain and suffering has been ongoing now for over
23 years.

"Today's news was not unexpected. His death does, however, put to rest some of
the conspiracy theories which have attempted to suggest that his illness was
somehow manufactured."

Lord Advocate Frank Mulholland QC said: "The investigation into the Lockerbie
bombing will continue, to bring to justice the others involved in this act of
state-sponsored terrorism."

Last month, Mulholland, visited Libya to discuss the investigation.

He was joined by Mueller, and they had talks with the Libyan prime minister.

Yesterday, a spokesman for Salmond said: "The Lord Advocate went to Libya with
the full co-operation of the new government with the intention of pursuing fresh
lines of inquiry in the Lockerbie investigation."

y Megrahi is the only person to have been convicted in connection with the
attack on Pan Am flight 103. on c-m The jumbo jet was blown up over Lockerbie on
its journey from London to New York on December 21, 1988. ver om ber w as were
All 259 passengers and crew well as 11 people in Lockerbie killed. Moves to step
up the inquiry the attack began last December, following the downfall of Libyan
dictator Muammar Gaddafi, when Lord Advocate held talks Mueller and US attorney
general Eric Holder.

into mber, byan n the with neral At the time, Mullholland said: think I would be
failing in my I didn't seek to take advantage opportunity that has opened up the
fall of Gaddafi. I am determined get the answers these families deserve." aid:
"I duty if of the p with ined to milies The Transitional National Government in
Libya told the Foreign Office last year it would allow police from Dumfries and
Galloway to travel to the country to continue their probe.

Megrahi, 60, died of prostate cancer yesterday at his home in Tripoli, where
he'd lived since being freed from Greenock Prison on compassionate grounds
nearly three years ago.

The news of his death was welcomed by those who are in no doubt he was
responsible for the bombing of Pan Am flight 103.

Former FBI agent Richard Marquise worked on the Megrahi case for three years. He
said: "I'm personally convinced that the man is guilty."

Susan Cohen, 74, said Megrahi should have received the death penalty.

She said: "He died with his family around him. My daughter died a horrible death
when she was 20 with her full life ahead of her. You call that justice? "I feel
no pity for Megrahi, I believe he should have died a lot sooner. He should have
been tried in the States and given the death penalty.

"We cannot let his death stand in the way of finding out who else was involved
in the bombings and the specifics of how it was done."

Libyan intelligence officer Megrahi was found guilty after a trial at a Scottish
court set up in the neutral ground of Camp Zeist, a military base in the
Netherlands in 2001.

His co-accused, Al Amin Khalifa Fhimah, was found not guilty while Megrahi was
sentenced to life with a minimum recommendation of 20 years.

His first appeal was unsuccesful and a second was abandoned when he accepted the
option which allowed him to be freed on compassionate grounds.

He had been given just three months to live, but this stretched into months and
years and it stoked criticism of "soft" Scottish justice.

Anger grew after he was given a hero's welcome to his home in Tripoli and
further controversy emerged from revelations that UK and Scottish business
interests could have been behind the release.

The introduction of new laws on double jeopardy in Scotland, which will allow
previously cleared suspects to be tried again, may allow prosecutors to attempt
a fresh trial of Fhimah.

Last August, he denied any links to the atrocity and insisted he too was a
victim of deposed and executed Colonel Gaddafi.

Likewise, Megrahi always insisted he was innocent but he kept a relative silence
after his release, living in the family villa in Tripoli.

News of his death was confirmed by his son, Khaled al-Megrahi.

His brother, Abdulhakim, said: "He was too sick to utter anything on his death
bed."

Swire became close friends with Megrahi. He said: "I met him last time in
Tripoli in December last year, when he was very sick and in a lot of pain.

"It was inevitable that the cancer would kill him. It was a really personal
goodbye.

"Right up to the end he was determined, for his family's sake, that the verdict
be overturned."

Veteran Scots politician Tam Dalyell led a campaign to clear Megrahi's name.

He said: "I feel sad because people knew very well that the man was a scapegoat
and was innocent of this terrible, terrible crime.

"It was convenient that he was a scapegoat for Britain and the US at a time when
they wanted to go to war in Iraq.

"It makes me feel ashamed as a politician and ashamed of the Scottish justice
system."

Colonel Gaddafi handed over Megrahi and Fhimah to Scottish authorities in 1999
after years of UN sanctions.

Four years later, in 2003, Gaddafi wledged responsibility, but not for the
bombing and paid nsation of about pounds 1.7billion ms' families.

regime maintained they anded the suspects over d compensation to win the of
sanctions.

acknowledged guilt, compensation to victims' The only handed and paid lifting At
the the prosecution's around board discovered wreckage.

e Camp Zeist trial in 2001, osecution's case was built a tiny fragment of
circuit iscovered among the airline ge.

s t igators Investigators August 21 - The UK - Megrahi found that Megrahi
travelled to Malta on false passport a day before the suitcase was checked in
and left the next day.

Key to convicting Megrahi was the testimony of a Malta shopkeeper who identified
him as having bought a in his w Malt keeper ide b man's shirt store.

Megrahi is su by his wife, and five child survived Aisha, children.

1988 December 21 - 270 die as Pan Am flight 103 explodes over the Scottish town
of Lockerbie. 2001 January 31 - Following a trial at Camp Zeist in the
Netherlands, Abdelbaset Ali Mohmed al-Megrahi is found guilty of mass murder and
jailed for life. His co-accused Al Amin Khalifa Fhimah is cleared. 2002 March 14
- Megrahi loses an appeal against his conviction.

2003 August 19 - Libya accepts the blame for the Lockerbie bombing and agrees to
compensate the victims' families.

2003 September 23 - The Scottish Criminal Cases Review Commission are asked to
investigate Megrahi's conviction. 2004 March - Prime Minister Tony Blair offers
Colonel Muammar Gaddafi "the hand of friendship" following talks with the Libyan
leader in a tent outside Tripoli.

2004 May - Talks between Blair and Gaddafi result in a memorandum of
understanding. Negotiations begin on a prisoner transfer agreement. An
exploration and 2b b Gmun Ne a p agr An production sharing agreement between oil
giant BP and the Libyan government is signed. 2007 August 19 - Libya accepts the
blame for the Lockerbie bombing and agrees to compensate the victims' families.

2008 September - Megrahi is diagnosed with terminal prostate cancer.

itc2 S an be ho com 2009 August 20 - Scottish Government announce Megrahi is to
be returned to his home country on compassionate grounds.

August 21 - The UK and the US condemn the "hero's welcome" given to Megrahi as
he arrives in Tripoli to cheering crowds.

2011 July 26 - Megrahi appears in a televised pro-government rally in Libya and
says his conviction was the result of a "conspiracy".

September 6 - Megrahi's son says he wants the people of Scotland and the UK to
see how ill his father is and allows the BBC into the family's Tripoli home.
October 10 - Megrahi says "new facts" surrounding the bombing would be announced
in the coming months.

October 20 - Gaddafi is killed by rebels in Sirte. 2012 April 13 - Megrahi has a
blood transfusion after his health "deteriorated quickly".

May 20 - Reports emerge that the only man convicted of the Lockerbie bombing has
died.

WHAT THEY SAID..

ALEX SALMOND 'Our first thoughts are with families of the Lockerbie atrocity.'
COHEN FAMILY 'I detest Megrahi, he was monstrous, and I hope his death was
painful' CAPTION J fdhjbkfglhbkx hfd-JIM SWIRE 'It's very sad. He was determined
that the verdict be overturned' TAM DALYELL 'I feel sad because people knew very
well that the man was a scapegoat'

NOW GET THE REST OF THE LOCKERBIE TERRORISTS TIMELINETIMELI L NE N

LOAD-DATE: May 21, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: HORROR J The wreckage of the Pan Am 747's cockpit lies in a field near
Lockerbie in 1988 KILLER 3 Megrahi is the only person convicted over the
atrocity DEATHBED Z Megrahi's brother with him when he died in Tripoli HUNT J
Memorial to victims left, Frank Mullholland, above left, Robert Mueller, middle,
and Megrahi's co-accused Fhimah DYING Z Megrahai gives an interview last October
SUSPECT J Megrahi with security officers in Tripoli in 1992 FREED J Megrahi with
Gaddafiafter his release in DI DI DI DI DI DI DISA SA SA SA SA SA SAST ST ST ST
STER ER ER ER J Our front DISASTER J Our front page GU GU GU GU GU GUIL IL IL IL
IL ILTY TY TY TY TY TY J Ou Ou Our coverage of GUILTY J Our coverage verdict in
2001 RELEASE J RE RE RE RE RELE LE LE LE LEAS AS AS AS AS ASE JD Decision to
Decision free bomber

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


            Copyright 2012 Scottish Daily Record & Sunday Mail Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              345 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                              The Herald (Glasgow)

                              May 21, 2012 Monday
                                   1 Edition

Megrahi s death reminds us how many question marks still hang over UK s worst
terror attack

BYLINE: analysis michael settle

SECTION: HS - NEWS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 609 words


THE death of the man convicted of the Lockerbie bombing might close a chapter on
Britain s worst terrorist atrocity but it does not close the book.

There are those who believe Abdelbaset Ali Mohmed al Megrahi was indeed involved
in the Lockerbie bombing  and that his conviction was safe, yet admit he could
not have acted alone, while there are those who believe he was simply a hapless
scapegoat  and the real culprits are still to be identified and are possibly
even at large.

Either way, Megrahi s death simply highlights how there are many questions that
remain unanswered.

In March, the Sunday Herald published in full online the  800-page report by the
Scottish Criminal Cases Review Commission after it had remained secret for five
years.

It confirmed in many people s minds that there should be a public inquiry into
the Lockerbie case as several key items of evidence were made public for the
first time.

One, for example, referred to how key prosecution witness Tony Gauci   the
Maltese shopkeeper who identified Megrahi as the man who bought clothes  later
found  in the suitcase that contained the bomb   and his brother  Paul had
received secret payments of as much as  $3 million by the US Department of
Justice under its  reward for justice  programme.

While Prime Minister David Cameron last night rejected any fresh inquiry into
the conviction of Megrahi, investigations into the circumstances surrounding
the bombing for which he was jailed continue. In fact, since December 1988 they
have never been closed.

Only three weeks ago, Frank Mulholland, the Lord Advocate, was in Tripoli with
Robert Mueller, director of America s FBI, to discuss with the Libyan
authorities the investigation into the Lockerbie bombing.

In December, Mr Mulholland was in Washington meeting Mr Mueller and Eric Holder,
the US Attorney General, to discuss ways of stepping up officials inquiries in
Libya. At the time, the Lord Advocate noted how he wanted to  take advantage of
the opportunity that has opened up with the fall of Gaddafi .

A year ago, following his defection to Britain amid the Libyan civil war, Moussa
Koussa, Gaddafi s former spy chief, was questioned by Scottish detectives about
his knowledge of the Lockerbie bombing.

He denied  involvement or knowledge of any kind  in the atrocity and is now
still thought to be in Qatar.

The Foreign Office insists he can still be called back to the UK to face any
court proceedings but it appears increasingly doubtful this will ever happen.

Then there is Saif al Islam, Gaddafi s English-speaking son, who might be best
placed to reveal any Lockerbie secrets. While the International Criminal Court
(ICC) in The Hague wants him to be extradited to face a war crimes trial in
Holland, those holding him in Libya insist Saif will stand trial in his home
country and, if convicted, will face possible execution.

Saif al Islam might not  be the only defendant in any such trial.

Last month, Mauritania was reported to have agreed to hand over Abdullah al
Senussi, Gadaffi s intelligence chief.

Not only does the ICC want to try him too for crimes against humanity but the
French Government is keen to see him take the stand; Senussi is said to have
been involved in the bombing of a plane in 1989 in which 54 French nationals
died.

MPs at Westminster yesterday made clear pressure had now to be exerted on the
new Libyan Government to try to uncover the full truth about Lockerbie to help
victims  families find some closure.

Yet it might be that the  last thing the new rulers in Tripoli want is to rake
over  the details of a sordid past.

They would undoubtedly  much prefer to concentrate on Libya s future.

LOAD-DATE: May 21, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: GH


                      Copyright 2012 Newsquest Media Group
                              All Rights Reserved

                              346 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring South Asia - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                              May 22, 2012 Tuesday

Official accuses Pakistan's ISI of plotting terror attacks in Afghanistan

LENGTH: 519 words


Text of report by privately-owned Noor TV on 22 May

[Presenter] The National Directorate of Security [NDS] has accused spy agencies
of some regional countries of making conspiracies simultaneous with the Chicago
summit. NDS officials say that they have detained five groups including 13
individuals from Logar and Nangarhar provinces in the past one week. In the
meantime, the NDS spokesman says that Mullah Dadollah Movement is part of the
Haqqani network. Mohammad Mansurian with more details.

[Correspondent] NDS spokesman Lotfollah Mashal says that they have detained six
individuals who planned to carry out a terror attack on USAID office in
Jalalabad city and in Marko Bazaar in Ghanikhel District of that Province. He
also said that they have detained a Pakistani spy who tried to spread rumours to
provoke people's sentiments against the signing of the strategic pact between
Afghanistan and the USA in Nangarhar Province.

[Mashal] They wanted to carry out two massive attacks in eastern provinces, and
the individual affiliated to Pakistan's spy agency [ISI], wanted to coordinate
demonstrations in Nangarhar University and in some other places where there are
naturally some opponents, misuse political issues, some other issues and
organize demonstrations.

[Correspondent] Mashal added that NDS officials have detained two terrorists on
the Kabul-Logar highway who wanted to carry out attacks on some areas in No 3
district of Kabul city and added that they had also detained four terrorists who
wanted to poison army forces in eastern Logar Province. He also spoke about the
decision by the leaders of the Council of Quetta, Peshawar and representatives
of regional spy agencies to destroy and torch schools in the country and urged
the people to confront such conspiracies.

[Mashal] The meeting that we have information about was held on 28 April in
Quetta, and was led by Mullah Qayum Zaker and representatives of the Haqqani
network. The Peshawar Council also attended the meeting. The spy agency of the
region [ISI] tasked them with torching schools and carrying out guerrilla war
because they do not have capacity to fight.

[Correspondent] The NDS spokesman said that the conspiracies on the eve of the
Chicago summit were the work of the regional spy agency to show that Afghan
security forces were weak and added that Mullah Dadollah Movement, which had
claimed responsibility for some recent terror attacks, was part of the Haqqani
terrorist network.

[Mashal] Mullah Dadollah Movement is part of the big network of terrorists and
the Haqqani network and their working agenda is to launch a psychological war.
They want to intimidate the people, threaten the people's elected
representatives, assassinate high-ranking officials and members of the High
Peace Council.

[Correspondent] NDS officials also said that they detained three terrorists
affiliated to the Mullah Dadollah Movement from Kabul city at the beginning of
the week.

[Video shows NDS spokesman speaking; archive footage of a number of detained
terrorists and seized weapons and grenades].

Source: Noor TV, Kabul, in Dari 1300 gmt 22 May 12

LOAD-DATE: May 22, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2012 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              347 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                  M2 PressWIRE

                              May 22, 2012 Tuesday

Terrorist Attack in Yemen

LENGTH: 122 words


May 21, 2012

Mark C. Toner, Acting Spokesperson , Washington, DC -- The United States
condemns in the strongest terms today's terrorist attack against Yemeni military
forces. We extend our deepest condolences to the friends and families of the
scores killed and wounded in the attack. This cowardly attack highlights the
lengths to which al-Qaida in the Arabian Peninsula will go to wreak havoc in
Yemen and beyond. The United States remains committed to a comprehensive
strategy that emphasizes governance and economic development as well as
counterterrorism efforts in Yemen. We will continue to support President Hadi
and the Yemeni people as they work to realize their aspirations for a brighter
and more prosperous future.

LOAD-DATE: May 22, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newswire

JOURNAL-CODE: M2PW


                      Copyright 2012 Normans Media Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              348 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                  M2 PressWIRE

                              May 22, 2012 Tuesday

Security Council and UN chief condemn deadly terrorist attack in Yemen

LENGTH: 466 words


May 21, 2012

The United Nations Security Council and Secretary-General Ban Ki-moon today
strongly condemned a terrorist attack in the city of Sana'a, the Yemeni capital,
which reportedly killed at least 96 soldiers and wounded more than 300 people.



"This criminal act cannot be justified by any cause," Mr. Ban's spokesperson
said in a statement . "Its perpetrators must be held accountable."

Yemen is currently undergoing a transition process after a popular rising
erupted in the country last year, similar to the protests in other countries in
the Middle East and North Africa. According to media reports, a suicide attacker
disguised as a Yemeni soldier blew himself up today in the midst of a rehearsal
for a military parade.

In addition to condemning the attack, both the Council and the UN chief
expressed their sympathy and condolences to the victims and their families, as
well as to the people and Government of Yemen.

Mr. Ban's spokesperson said the Secretary-General "calls on all in Yemen to
reject the use of violence in all its forms and manifestations, and expects them
play a full and constructive role in implementing Yemen's political Transition
Agreement, in accordance with Security Council resolution 2014."

Adopted by the Council in October last year, resolution 2014 condemned human
rights violations and the excessive use of force in Yemen, and called on all
sides to quickly implement a regional plan for an orderly transition of power.
It also voiced concern over the risk of terrorist attacks in parts of the
country, and noted the Council's determination to deal with the threat in
accordance with the UN Charter and international law.

"The members of the Security Council reaffirmed that terrorism in all its forms
and manifestations constitutes one of the most serious threats to international
peace and security, and that any acts of terrorism are criminal and
unjustifiable, regardless of their motivation, wherever, whenever and by
whomsoever committed," Ambassador Agshin Mehdiyev of Azerbaijan, in his capacity
as Council President for the month of May, said in a press statement.

"The members of the Security Council reminded States that they must ensure that
measures taken to combat terrorism comply with all their obligations under
international law, in particular international human rights, refugee and
humanitarian law," Amb. Mehdiyev added.

In February, Yemen held elections, including a presidential poll, which resulted
in the victory of Abdrabuh Mansour Hadi Mansour. In March, the Security Council
called on Yemen to remain committed to its transition process and noted that the
country had entered a second phase of transition which should focus, among other
things, on restructuring its security forces and establishing an inclusive
national dialogue.

LOAD-DATE: May 22, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newswire

JOURNAL-CODE: M2PW


                      Copyright 2012 Normans Media Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              349 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                       May 22, 2012 Tuesday 10:38 AM GMT

London 2012 Olympics: Ministry of Defence to control London airspace during
Games for first time since Second World War;
London airspace will be controlled by the Ministry of Defence for the first time
since the Second World War during the Olympic Games to prevent terrorist
attacks.

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 448 words


Military personnel will take charge of airspace over much of south east England
in seven weeks' time and fighter jets will be stationed near the capital to
respond to threats.

The MoD will control most of the airspace over the South East, in a wide area
which pans from Brighton on the South Coast to locations 15 miles north of
Stansted and Luton airports further north of London. The Thames estuary, from
the east of the captial to the west, passed Reading, will also be carefully
monitored.

Working out of the National Air Traffic Services (Nats) control centre at
Swanwick, Hants, MoD staff will monitor all aircraft in the area during the
Olympics .

However, civilian air traffic controllers will continue to guide jets carrying
the extra 500,000 visitors expected during the Games into London airports.

The area under military control will stretch from Brighton on the south coast to
positions 15 miles north of Stansted and Luton airports to the north, the Thames
estuary in the east and to the west of Reading.

RAF jets will be stationed at Northolt, close to Heathrow, for the duration of
the Games.

Charles Farr, head of the Office for Security and Counter Terrorism, who is in
charge of the anti-terror strategy for the London Olympics, said that he was
confident the aircraft would be able to respond to any airborne threat in good
time.

He defended the deployment of Rapier missiles, mobile ground radar systems and
the Navy as similar to the response at other recent Olympics.

A Home Office counterterror official told The Times : "The military have to
exercise the capability they may be called on to use."

The official added that ministers would make a final decision about the
deployment of the military response.

The news of the MoD's takeover comes as Heathrow Airport bosses have insisted
they are ready for the Games, and the extra visitors, despite concerns about
queues and security.

They believe that August 13, the day after the Olympics closing ceremony, will
be the busiest day in the airport - the third largest in the world, according to
a report last year - 93-year history.

Almost 138,000 passengers will be departing from Heathrow and the airport will
have to deal with 25 per cent more luggage than usual, which amounts to 200,000
bags.

On Tuesday the Director of the Border Force for Heathrow, Marc Owen, said that
customers would not endure long queues while going through passport control. All
border desks, Owen said, would be manned from mid-July until the end of August
and that be expected time targets to be met.

More than £20million has been invested in to Heathrow to help preparation, to
ensure athletes and tourists can travel without any issues.

LOAD-DATE: May 23, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTNS


                  Copyright 2012 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              350 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                       May 22, 2012 Tuesday 10:35 AM GMT

MoD to control London airspace during Olympics;
London airspace will be controlled by the Ministry of Defence for the first time
since the Second World War during the Olympic Games to prevent terrorist
attacks.

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 391 words


Military personnel will take charge of airspace over much of south east England
in seven weeks' time and fighter jets will be stationed near the capital to
respond to threats.

Working out of the National Air Traffic Services (Nats) control centre at
Swanwick, Hants, MoD staff will monitor all aircraft in the area.

However, civilian air traffic controllers will continue to guide jets carrying
the extra 500,000 visitors expected during the Games into London airports.

The area under military control will stretch from Brighton on the south coast to
positions 15 miles north of Stansted and Luton airports to the north, the Thames
estuary in the east and to the west of Reading.

RAF jets will be stationed at Northolt, close to Heathrow, for the duration of
the Games.

Charles Farr, head of the Office for Security and Counter Terrorism, who is in
charge of the anti-terror strategy for the London Olympics, said that he was
confident the aircraft would be able to respond to any airborne threat in good
time.

He defended the deployment of Rapier missiles, mobile ground radar systems and
the Navy as similar to the response at other recent Olympics.

A Home Office counterterror official told The Times : "The military have to
exercise the capability they may be called on to use."

The official added that ministers would make a final decision about the
deployment of the military response.

The news of the MoD's takeover comes as Heathrow Airport bosses have insisted
they are ready for the Games, and the extra visitors, despite concerns about
queues and security.

They believe that August 13, the day after the Olympics closing ceremony, will
be the busiest day in the airport - the third largest in the world, according to
a report last year - 93-year history.

Almost 138,000 passengers will be departing from Heathrow and the airport will
have to deal with 25 per cent more luggage than usual, which amounts to 200,000
bags.

On Tuesday the Director of the Border Force for Heathrow, Marc Owen, said that
customers would not endure long queues while going through passport control. All
border desks, Owen said, would be manned from mid-July until the end of August
and that be expected time targets to be met.

More than £20million has been invested in to Heathrow to help preparation, to
ensure athletes and tourists can travel without any issues.

LOAD-DATE: May 23, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTNS


                  Copyright 2012 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              351 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                      Coventry Evening Telegraph (England)

                             May 23, 2012 Wednesday
                                Nuneaton Edition

I thought was going to die...I thought they were going to kill me;
CARE WORKER TELLS OF TERROR ATTACK IN CITY CA WO LS TERRO ROR AT ATT TTA TAC ACK
N TY

BYLINE: Sandish Shoker

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 506  words


A CARE worker has told how she feared she might be killed as three men dragged
her from her car and beat her up.

Community carer Kiran Kaur was visiting elderly patients in Hillmorton Road,
Wood End when she was threatened by three men.

The 32-year-old, of Stoke, Coventry, who ended up covered in bruises and
suffering from a broken nose, recalled her ordeal: ''I thought I was going to
die. I thought they were going to kill me. I was so scared for my life I didn't
know what to do."

Despite her fears she bravely tried to stop the thieves getting their hands on
her car on Sunday evening.

Ms Kaur and a colleague had finished putting one of their patients to bed about
8.30pm and they both got into her car which was parked outside.

While she filled out some paperwork two men suddenly opened the driver's side
door and threatened her.

"He said 'get out the car, give me your keys' but I just held on to my stuff,"
said Ms Kaur.

"There was a scuffle for about five minutes and one of the guys pulled out a CS
gas canister but that didn't stop me trying to protect what was mine.

"Then a third man came from across the road. He punched me hard in the face,
grabbed my jacket and pulled me out of the car." She said during this time her
colleague who had been sitting in the passenger seat had fled.

Determined to save her car Ms Kaur grabbed onto the back of the red Vauxhall
Astra and was dragged a few yards down the road before the boot flung open and
she was thrown off.

"I held on for as long as I could but if I hadn't let go then I would have been
a lot worse off than I am now," she added.

"I was covered in blood all over my face and hands. I was just trying to save my
car. I didn't want to let them take get away with taking it from me.

"It all happened in about five or 10 minutes. I was shouting for help but no-one
helped me while it was happening. The car sped off and then everyone came out of
their houses."

Ms Kaur suffered a broken nose and cuts and grazes to her hands, back and legs.

The mum of one, who works for Nationwide Care Services based in Queens Road,
Spon End, had only been in the job for five months and was covering the shift
for a colleague.

"I don't usually do that round," she said.

"I was just picking up somebody else's shift that day but I will just stick to
my own area in future and will never go there again.

"I'm usually a confident person but right now I don't feel like I can do
anything anymore.

"I can't sleep, I'm getting heart palpitations at any noise I hear. I'm just
really scared. I don't feel like I can go out again on my own."

She described the three men as being in their late 20s, wearing baseball caps
and tracksuit bottoms.

The car, a red Vauxhall Astra VXR with the registration plate VN10 OPP,
contained work documents with sensitive information of patients, her phone and
sat nav. Coventry Police said investigating officers were trying to locate the
car and were keen to hear from people who saw what happened.

Anyone with information can contact DC Rob Williams at Coventry CID by calling
101.

LOAD-DATE: May 23, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2012 Coventry Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              352 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                               The Sun (England)

                             May 23, 2012 Wednesday
                                   Edition 2;
                                    Scotland

BOY'S COP DOG ATTACK TERROR

BYLINE: BEN ARCHIBALD

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 167 words


A SCHOOLBOY told yesterday how he was attacked by a police dog.

The 14-year-old said he was walking home with three cousins when the Belgian
Shepherd appeared - then ran towards them when one lad screamed.

The boy - who cannot be named - said: "We tried to run away from it but it
caught me. It bit me and pulled me down to the ground, holding on to my arm. I
was pretty upset."

Falkirk Sheriff Court heard how the dog, Lux, had been let off its lead by
handler Linda McBride, who was walk-ing with husband Brendan in the town. The
lad said Mr McBride used his jacket as a sling and took him home. The boy -
later taken to hospital - added: "They were both being apologetic."

Mr McBride, 44, said he kicked Lux to try to get him off. He said: "I maybe did
more damage to the young boy's arm by jerking the dog and kicking it."

McBride got the dog under control and took it back to its kennel.

She denies Lux was dangerously out of control and left the boy permanently
disfigured last April. The trial continues.

LOAD-DATE: May 23, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Handler ... McBride
Sling ... Mr McBride

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: SUNscot


                    Copyright 2012 NEWS GROUP NEWSPAPERS LTD
                              All Rights Reserved

                              353 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                              Western Daily Press

                             May 23, 2012 Wednesday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

Family man forever linked to terror attack;
Obituaries

BYLINE: Ali Mohmed al-Megrahi

SECTION: FEATURES; Pg. 40

LENGTH: 764 words


Lockerbie bomber Abdelbaset Ali Mohmed al-Megrahi did not fit the stereotype of
an international terrorist.

Smartly dressed and quietly spoken, he portrayed himself as a family man who had
been the victim of a terrible miscarriage of justice.

The death of the former Libyan intelligence officer following a battle with
cancer brings to an end years of legal and political controversy.

But for the families of the 270 people killed when a New York-bound jet was
blown up over the town of Lockerbie in December 1988, many questions remain
unanswered. Megrahi was born in Tripoli in 1952 and educated in the United
States and the UK.

By the late 1980s he had become a director of Libya's Centre for Strategic
Studies and later worked in the airline security division, heading up Libyan
Arab Airlines' security operations.

Prosecutors said he used his position to organise, prepare and carry out the
Lockerbie bombing and it was claimed he secretly worked for the Libyan
Intelligence Service. Megrahi was linked to the bombing by fragments of clothing
that were found wrapped around the remnants of the Lockerbie bomb. He was
identified by Maltese businessman Anthony Gauci, who claimed he sold items of
clothing and an umbrella to a Libyan man who looked "a lot" like Megrahi three
weeks before the bombing.

His underground role appeared dramatically at odds with the picture of the
happilymarried father of five who lived with his family in the Tripoli suburbs.
Megrahi was indicted in 1991 after a lengthy investigation by UK and US police
forces.

Accused along with compatriot Al Amin Khalifa Fhimah, the pair spent years on
the FBI's "most wanted" list.

After the formal accusation, there followed years of lengthy diplomatic
bargaining with Libyan leader Colonel Gaddafi before the suspects were handed
over for trial. It took the intervention of South African president Nelson
Mandela before the Libyan authorities agreed to transfer the suspects to a court
in a neutral country.

Megrahi and Fhimah eventually faced a trial in 2000, conducted under Scottish
law at a specially convened court at Camp Zeist in the Netherlands.

It was one of the most complex trials ever staged, involving 84 days of evidence
from 230 witnesses, lasting nearly seven months and costing an estimated £75
million. Megrahi was eventually found guilty and sentenced to 27 years, while
his co-accused was cleared.

In an interview published shortly after his conviction, he denied he was
responsible for the bombing.

He told Arabic daily Asharq Al-Aswat: "God is my witness that I am innocent, I
have never committed any crime and I have no connection to this issue."

Two of his children, Khaled and Ghada, attended his trial in the Netherlands,
while his black-clad wife Aisha collapsed in the public gallery as his 2002
appeal was rejected.

A first appeal against his conviction was rejected in March 2002. His lawyers
then successfully applied to the Scottish Criminal Cases Review Commission and
the case was referred back to the Court of Appeal in the summer of 2007.

But just over a year later he was diagnosed with prostate cancer, which had
spread to other parts of his body and was at an advanced stage.

Megrahi had suffered other health problems during his incarceration. In 2003 he
was taken from Barlinnie Prison in Glasgow to the city's Royal Infirmary after
complaining of stomach pains. He returned to the jail the same day after
undergoing tests for a suspected stomach ulcer. Following the cancer diagnosis,
Megrahi applied to the High Court in Edinburgh to be freed pending the outcome
of his appeal hearing. His defence team argued there was a "compelling case" for
releasing the cancerstricken Libyan to live with his family in Glasgow.

But prosecutors argued the gravity of the offence meant he should remain in jail
and three judges at the Appeal Court in Edinburgh ruled that he should not be
released.

By the time his second appeal eventually got under way, his condition had
deteriorated. A few weeks later an application to have him transferred to serve
the rest of his sentence in Libya was lodged, and at the same time Megrahi
applied to be freed on compassionate grounds because of his health. In August
2009, Megrahi dropped his appeal amid speculation that he was to be freed on
compassionate grounds by the Scottish Justice Minister Kenny MacAskill. And on
the 21st of that month, amid a storm of international protest, Megrahi was
released from Greenock Prison and allowed to fly home to his family.

'I've not committed any crime and I have no connection to this' Abdelbaset Ali
Mohmed al-Megrahi

LOAD-DATE: May 23, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Lockerbie bomber Abdelbaset Ali Mohmed al-Megrahi did not fit the
stereotype of an international terrorist. But he was found responsible for the
deaths of 270 people killed when a New York-bound jet was blown up over the town
of Lockerbie in December 1988

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: WDP


                    Copyright 2012 Northcliffe Media Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              354 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring South Asia - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                              May 25, 2012 Friday

India says Pakistani banned charity chief behind Mumbai terror attack

LENGTH: 476 words


Text of report published by Pakistani newspaper Daily Times website on 25 May

Islamabad: India on Thursday [24 May] declared Hafiz Sayeed as mastermind of the
Mumbai attacks as the two countries started two-day talks in the capital on
liberal visa regime, curbing smuggling and crimes.

Before the start of the secretary-level talks, Indian Home Secretary RK Singh
expressed dissatisfaction over Pakistan's investigation into the Mumbai attacks
and said that many of those involved in the incident have not been brought to
courts yet.

Talking to reporters, he said that both countries should play their role in
ensuring peace in the region. He asked Pakistan to take the Mumbai incident
culprits to justice.

However, Pakistan's Interior Secretary Khawaja Siddique Akbar termed the issue a
court matter and added that Pakistan was participating in the talks with an open
mind.

Akbar and his Indian counterpart met to finalise major changes in their
decades-old existing strict bilateral visa regime. Many key decisions on
liberalisation of visa regime for business community would take place within a
week.

Singh said India had provided additional evidence against Hafiz Sayeed and other
perpetrators of the Mumbai terror attacks to be used by Pakistani authorities to
prosecute them. The additional evidence should be presented in the Pakistani
court and used to prosecute the terror suspects, he added. The Indian secretary
said: " It seems that the progress in judicial proceedings against them (persons
charged with involvement in the Mumbai incident) is very slow."

Singh said the 2008 Mumbai attacks should not be equated with the 2007 bombing
of the Samjhauta Express train. He said that they had also briefed the Pakistani
delegation on the progress in the Samjhauta Express investigations. The assault
on Mumbai was an incident of cross-border terrorism while the train bombing had
occurred within India, he pointed out. Indian authorities had arrested and
charge-sheeted those responsible for the bombing of the Samjhauta Express, Singh
said. Hafiz Sayeed is accused of masterminding the 2008 attacks in Mumbai.
Earlier this month, US Secretary of State Hillary Clinton, while on a visit to
India, blamed Pakistan of "not doing enough" against Sayeed. Pakistan had
demanded proof of his involvement in terrorism, which is good enough to stand in
court of law. The Foreign Office spokesman has already clarified, "Our position
on Hafiz Sayeed is clear. We have independent and active courts. If anyone has
proof against him, they should share it with us so that the courts can examine
it."

The two sides agreed upon business community non-reporting to police upon
arrival at the other country, elimination of the condition of same entry and
exit point and issuance of multiple visas to business community.

Source: Daily Times website, Lahore, in English 25 May 12

LOAD-DATE: May 25, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2012 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              355 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                        May 25, 2012 Friday 6:30 AM GMT

Court case over drone strike 'could force Britain to reveal intelligence
exchanges with US';
A court action brought by a Pakistani student whose father was killed in a
suspected US missile strike last year could force Britain to reveal whether it
gives America intelligence for drone attacks on terrorist suspects.

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 389 words


Human rights lawyers acting on behalf of Noor Khan are seeking a judicial review
aimed at forcing the Foreign Secretary to say whether there is such a policy, in
a case which threatens to expose ministers to allegations of war crimes, it was
reported.

The US has used hundreds of drone strikes against suspected Al Qaeda and Taliban
targets in Pakistan since 2004 - a tactic it has also deployed to attack
militants based in Yemen.

It has been seen to have played a key role in thwarting terror plots against the
West.

Michael Clarke, director of the Royal United Services Institute, told a
newspaper he would be "astonished" if British agents were not giving their US
counterparts information to help them locate terrorist suspects.

"I believe it to be true that our intelligence information in certain cases has
pinpointed targets for attacks and those attacks do amount to extra-judicial
killing," Mr Clarke said.

"From a political point of view the whole question of our intelligence
involvement in drone attacks is a political hot potato."

Mr Khan, whose father is one of hundreds of civilians who say they have lost
innocent friends or relatives in the drone attacks in the Waziristan region of
Pakistan.

Daud Khan and at least 40 other people from the same tribe died when a meeting
of elders was struck by a missile thought to have been fired from a CIA drone on
March 17, 2011.

Speaking via his lawyer in Islamabad, Mr Khan told The Times: "I want to achieve
justice. I would like those to be on trial who were responsible for the killing
of my father."

There is no indication that British intelligence was used in this strike, but Mr
Khan's application to the High Court - which may be heard as early as July -
will go to the heart of a "grey area" in the intelligence-sharing contacts
between the US and UK.

Among those killed are believed to be seven British passport holders - raising
the possibility of the UK being accused of complicity in the deaths of its own
citizens, whether they were suspected of terrorist activity or not.

Clive Stafford-Smith, director of legal charity Reprieve, which is backing the
application, said the UK "should be worried because there is no question that
they are complicit in war crimes".

A Foreign Office spokeswoman said: "It is the UK's longstanding policy not to
comment on intelligence matters."

LOAD-DATE: May 26, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTNS


                  Copyright 2012 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              356 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring Middle East - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                             May 26, 2012 Saturday

Yemeni Youth Federation condemns Al-Sab'in terrorist attack, calls for unity

LENGTH: 343 words


Text of report by Yemeni Armed Forces newspaper 26 September website on 24 May

[Statement by the General Federation of Yemeni Youths: "General Federation of
Yemeni Youths condemns the Al-Sab'in Square terrorist attack and calls on the
masses to unite"]

The executive committee of the General Federation of Yemeni Youths has taken
note of the cowardly terrorist attack and the heinous crime perpetrated by
terrorists in the Al-Sab'in Square. The attack targeted the heroes of the Armed
Forces and the security services as they were preparing to celebrate the great
day of 22 May, the holiday of holidays. The attack robbed the joy from the
hearts of all citizens on this precious occasion.

The General Federation of Yemeni Youths strongly deplores and condemns this
crime, which targeted a formation of the divinely guided and righteous heroes of
our Armed Forces and security services. At the same time, the General Federation
of Yemeni Youths asserts that terrorism will not shake or detract from the
strength and the will of the political leadership. Terrorism will not weaken the
resolve of the people to combat it and support the political leadership in
confronting terrorism in all its forms and manifestations. These heinous acts
only signify a weakness of faith in God and a lack of understanding of the
tolerant Islamic Shari'ah. These acts are only perpetrated by individuals who
have denuded themselves of all human and Islamic values.

At a time when we condemn such terrorist acts, we call upon all citizens to
confront these individuals, rally around the political leadership represented by
His Excellency President Abd-Rabbuh Mansur Hadi, and support the Armed Forces
and security services in eliminating and uprooting terrorism. In conclusion, we
ask God to forgive and have mercy on the righteous martyrs, heal the wounded and
the disabled, and bring shame and disgrace on the killers and terrorists.

Released by the Executive Committee of General Federation of Yemeni Youths

[Dated] 24 May 2012

Source: 26 September website, Sanaa, in Arabic 24 May 12

LOAD-DATE: May 26, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2012 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              357 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                        May 28, 2012 Monday 3:48 PM GMT

Nairobi blast was terror attack, claims Odinga;
A blast that wounded dozens in central Nairobi on Monday was a "terrorist"
attack, Kenyan Prime Minister Raila Odinga said, contradicting earlier police
reports it was caused by an electrical fault.

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 293 words


"This is terrorism... this is a heinous act, we are under threat but we will not
be cowed," Odinga told reporters at the site of the blast in Nairobi's
commercial heart.

Kenya has been hit by a wave of grenade attacks the police have repeatedly
blamed on Somalia's Al-Qaeda linked Shebab insurgents or its supporters.

Last month the hardline Shebab warned Kenya of revenge attacks for sending tanks
and troops into Somalia in October.

The blast, which ripped through a small shopping complex on Nairobi's Moi Avenue
in the early afternoon, left around 30 people wounded.

Minutes after the blast the pro-Shebab Twitter site Al-Kataib reported a "huge
explosion in Nairobi" although did not specifically claim any responsibility.

"Kenya under attack? Of course the kuffar (unbelievers) has attacked Somalia!"
read another Twitter message from the Kenyan-based Muslim Youth Centre, a group
linked to the Shebab, according to United Nations reports.

The blast was powerful enough to rip the tin roof off the building and smash
windows across the street.

Wounded were carried from the explosion in a commercial building housing several
small shops. Many appeared to have cuts from broken glass or flying debris.

Police Commissioner Mathew Iteere had earlier said the explosion was not a
grenade or bomb attack, and that "preliminary conclusions" suggested it was an
electrical fault.

A large plume of black smoke rose high into the air as ambulances rushed the
wounded to hospital, but fire fighting trucks with sirens blaring extinguished
the blaze soon after.

"I addressed parliament and warned of such acts... we chased them from here now
they are trying to come back," Odinga added.

"We'll remain united. Our security forces need to be strengthened," he added.

LOAD-DATE: May 29, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTNS


                  Copyright 2012 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              358 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring Middle East - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                              May 29, 2012 Tuesday

Houla attack "deliberate state terrorism" by Syrian government - Arab official

LENGTH: 1575 words


Doha Al-Jazeera Satellite Channel Television in Arabic at 1830 gmt on 27 May
carries live a new 25-minute episode on the implications of the "massacre"
committed in the Syrian town of Houla [Houla] on 25 May. Anchor Abd-al-Samad
Nasir begins by saying more than 90 civilians, including more than 30 children,
were killed.

He adds that today's episode will discuss the validity of the various parties'
denial of responsibility for this massacre, and the expected repercussions of
this massacre on the future of the Syrian "revolution" and on the way the world
views violations in Syria. He then cites Syrian Foreign Ministry spokesman Jihad
Maqdisi as categorically denying Syrian Government troop responsibility for the
crime and accusing "dozens of militants of perpetrating it".

Nasir also cites Robert Mood, head of the UN observer mission in Syria, as
saying the victims were killed by tank and heavy artillery fire and as calling
for punishing those responsible. He finally cites Burhan Ghalyun, head of the
Syrian National Council, as appealing to the Syrian people and the Free Syrian
Army at a news conference in Istanbul to be fully prepared, noting that "if the
international community fails to assume its responsibility towards protecting
the Syrian people under Chapter VII, our people will have no other option but
respond to the call of duty and wage the battle of liberation, dignity, and
freedom depending on their own power."

To discuss this issue, Nasir hosts Walid al-Bunni, a Syrian opposition figure,
via satellite from Moscow; Anas al-Shami, member of the Syrian People's
Assembly, via telephone from Aleppo; and Ala Shalabi, secretary-general of the
Arab Organization for Human Rights, via satellite from Cairo.

Asked about the Syrian Government's denial of responsibility for what happened
in Houla, Al-Bunni says: "If they have not committed this massacre, who then
committed it? We saw children slaughtered and men and women killed by artillery
and rocket shelling." When told that Maqdisi said armed gangs committed the
massacre, he says: "The armed gangs which committed it were the gangs of his
master. They are the gangs of the Al-Asad family."

He adds: "No-one trusts them or trusts their investigation committees; they are
the murderers. If they want investigation committees, let them be international.
Let the task of the current investigation committees be expanded to investigate
the ones who really carried out these massacres. We do not have the least doubt
that the Shabbihah [pro-regime militiamen] of Bashar al-Asad and the family of
Al-Asad are the ones who perpetrate such massacres. What happened in Houla
yesterday was a mark of disgrace on the forehead of the world."

Anas al-Shami next responds to a question on the side responsible for the
massacre. He says: "The question that imposes itself on us is: Who is
responsible for protecting children, women, and citizens? Where is the state?
Where is the government? Where are the wise men?" He adds: "Is it not time for
us to see in the official regime and in the state men who rise to the level of
responsibility to pursue the perpetrators and bring them to justice? Shall we be
satisfied with reports about a conspiracy and armed gangs, and remain absent as
statesmen?" He adds that the situation is serious and what is coming is
"fearful".

Asked if he thus doubts the official government story as told by Foreign
Ministry spokesman Jihad Maqdisi, he says: "I do not want to cast doubts or
confirm things. I want to ask: If there are really gunmen - and I am for
confirming this story - who is then responsible for protecting these children
and the Syrian citizens? Is this not the responsibility of the government? The
government should announce in public..." Nasir interrupts him here to say this
is an important question that he will pass on to Ala Shalabi.

Nasir asks Shalabi about the side that is responsible for the massacre.
Responding, Shalabi first invokes God's mercy on "the martyrs of the glorious
Syrian revolution and the Syrian children, who fell victims of this foolish
regime." He adds: "Maqdisi's statements were an attempt to circumvent the fact
that the regime was the side that carried this out. We have the UN mission
report and Robert Mood's statements, which stressed that they were targeted by
artillery fire, in addition to talk about slaughtering the children. The
reliable field stories we received and the initial testimonies that were
collected and will be collected during the next few days confirm that the regime
is primarily responsible for this."

He then regrets that "the international community continues to deal with the
Syrian revolution as a political crisis and look for solutions to it," adding
that the number of observers is not enough and what happened in Houla was "a
deliberate state terrorism aimed at instilling terror in the hearts of the
Syrians in order to stop their protests." He then calls on the UN Security
Council to invoke Chapter VII of the UN Charter against Syria and take all
required measures to protect the Syrian civilians without necessarily
undertaking military action or intervention.

When told that Robert Mood linked between the Houla massacre and warning of a
civil war in Syria, and asked about the implications of this linkage, Al-Bunni
says: "What is happening in Syria now is that there is a regime that has
dominated one of the honourable sects in Syria and wants to create a civil war
between this sect and the rest of Syrians through these massacres in order to
guarantee its stay in power and their loyalty to it." He adds that "the battle
between the people and regime may continue and this will certainly destroy
Syria."

He then says: "I do not think there is a human tragedy the international
community dealt with in such coolness like the current Syrian tragedy. Annan
must announce today and not tomorrow that this regime has only one or two days
to withdraw its forces from all cities, cease its fire, stop the killings, and
allow for peaceful demonstration because millions will storm his [Al-Asad's]
palace within days. Otherwise, Annan must announce the failure of his initiative
and ask the Security Council to issue a resolution under Chapter VII that sends
a real and deterrent warning to this gang to stop the killings." He then says if
this does not happen, the "fate of this criminal family will be similar to that
of Al-Qadhafi."

Nasir next asks Anas al-Shami what the new Syrian People's Assembly is going to
do to avoid further deterioration of the situation and "to inform the regime
about the gravity of the practices made by some agencies that protect the
regime." Al-Shami does not respond as he is no longer on line. Therefore, Nasir
turns to Shalabi to ask about the possible repercussions of the massacre on the
Syrian revolution, noting that UN Secretary General Ban Ki-moon said those
responsible for the massacre must be punished, and noting that Hillary Clinton
said "Washington will work with the international community to intensify
pressure on Al-Asad and his cronies, whose rule by murder and fear must come to
an end." He asks if this is a new language that might lead to a stronger
international stand against the Syrian regime.

Responding, Shalabi says: "We must put an end to the issue of verbal
condemnations. These condemnations are no longer enough for the Syrian people.
The regime has succeeded in forcing the revolutionaries to get arms to confront
the ugly crimes and atrocities it is committing. These rise to the level of
crimes against humanity." He then says the international community has failed in
handling the Syrian crisis.

Asked if Russia is going to use its veto right again at the Security Council
when the Syrian crisis is discussed, Al-Bunni says: "If the Russians use the
veto again after these massacres, they will be committing a mistake against
Russia's national interests. The Syrian people have long viewed Russia as a
friendly country and the Russian people as friendly people, but if the Russians
continue to adopt these positions - and I do not think they will because I do
not think that a ruler, president, or regime will protect Al-Asad's gang after
these massacres - they will be committing a big mistake and they will lose the
friendship of the people who have long praised this friendship."

When told that Russia accuses a third party of the acts of violence, he says
they must say who this third party is, adding that "we all have come to know
that Bashar al-Asad's regime and its Shabbihah and criminals are the ones
perpetrating these crimes." He adds that the Free Syrian Army and
"revolutionaries" in Syria do not have artillery or tanks.

He then says Saudi Arabia and Qatar should call for an emergency Arab summit to
find a way to protect the Syrian people, arguing that the Syrian opposition
parties "should forget about their differences and meet within a few days" to
achieve the goal of "toppling the regime" and putting Al-Asad's family on trial,
and setting up "a crisis cell" to maintain daily contact with the international
community to keep the Syrian issue alive and support the Syrian people's
struggle.

At this point, Nasir says he wished to ask Anas al-Shami more questions, but
"unfortunately, contact with him was cut off and I do not know how we lost
contact with Anas al-Shami, who is a member of the Syrian People's Assembly."

Source: Al-Jazeera TV, Doha, in Arabic 1830 gmt 27 May 12

LOAD-DATE: May 29, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2012 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              359 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                       BBC Monitoring Trans Caucasus Unit
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                             May 30, 2012 Wednesday

(Corr) Azeri security agencies reportedly foil terror attack ahead of Eurovision

LENGTH: 279 words


(Correcting "2011" to "2012" in the last sentence of the item and the headline.
A corrected version of the item follows:)

Azerbaijan's security agencies have thwarted a terror attack by a transnational
criminal group in the country ahead of the Eurovision Song Contest - 2012,
private APA news agency reported on 30 May.

The agency quoted the Azerbaijani National Security Ministry as saying that the
group had planned to commit "explosions and armed attacks for the mass killing
of people" and create chaos in the country on the eve of the contest held in
May, adding that so far, 40 members of the group have been detained.

The report added that the group had planned large-scale bomb attacks in Baku's
Crystal Hall that hosted the contest, the State Flag Square, Hilton Baku, JW
Marriot Hotel and other hotels and venues where foreigners would gather. After
the planned terror attacks, the group members would hide in dugouts made in
forests in northern Azerbaijan and later "act together with the terrorist forces
that would arrive from Dagestan", the ministry statement read.

The ministry said in a statement that it did not inform the public about the
terror operation earlier, in order not to create anxiety and chaos among the
citizens and Eurovision guests ahead of the contest.

The news agency also quoted the statement of the National Security Ministry as
saying that the armed group had planned a terror attack on President Ilham
Aliyev during his planned visit to northwestern Azerbaijan in April 2012, the
killing of law-enforcers and also bomb attacks in mosques, shrines and other
holy places in the country.

Source: APA news agency, Baku, in Azeri 0652 gmt 30 May 12

LOAD-DATE: May 30, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2012 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              360 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                   MailOnline

                       May 30, 2012 Wednesday 5:20 PM GMT

Azerbaijan 'arrested 40 and seized assault rifles and grenades as it thwarted
planned terror attacks on Eurovision'

BYLINE: EMMA REYNOLDS

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 459 words



     ·    Security forces claim song contest venue and major hotels were targets
     ·    Apparently most extravagant alleged attack to date
     ·    Other plots included assassination attempt on President Ilham Aliyev,
          according to officials


Security services in Azerbaijan say they arrested 40 suspects and seized weapons
as they thwarted a series of planned terror attacks against the Eurovision Song
Contest.

Officials said they had discovered 13 assault rifles, a machine gun, 12
handguns, three rifles, 3,400 rounds of bullets, 62 hand grenades, and several
kilograms of explosives.

Targets included the song contest venue and major hotels housing foreigners,
including the Marriott and Hilton in Baku, the National Security Ministry said.

Azerbaijan has in recent months reported being the target of terrorist
activities planned by groups with ties to al-Qaeda and Iran, and this appears to
be most extravagant alleged plot revealed to date.

An oil-rich nation of 9million people wedged between Russia and Iran, Azerbaijan
has nurtured close relations with the US and played an active role in
Western-led counter-terrorist programmes.

That policy has placed a strain on its ties with Iran, which hosts a sizeable
ethnic Azeri community.

Today's statement said other plots included plans for an assassination attempt
on President Ilham Aliyev in April, as well as attacks on religious pilgrimage
sites and police stations.

The statement provided no details on when the arrests took place.

'The armed group set itself the aim of mounting terrorist attacks in several
regions of Azerbaijan, creating a mood of powerlessness and lawlessness, sowing
panic, ethnic and religious enmity, disrupting the public peace and damaging
Azerbaijan's international image,' the statement said.

The Eurovision attack would have centred on the Baku Crystal Hall, where the
singing competition took place on Saturday.

At least one suspected plotter, 37-year-old Azerbaijani citizen Vugar Padarov,
and a security agent were killed during raids to shut down the terrorist group,
the statement said.

Padarov was identified in an April security statement as the leader of a group
that had received religious training in Syria. Some of its members had weapons
training with the Jihad Islami group in Pakistan and took part in fighting
Nato-led troops in Afghanistan, the National Security Ministry said.

In March, the ministry announced the arrests of 22 Azerbaijani citizens it said
had been hired by Iran to stage terror attacks against the US and Israeli
embassies as well as against western-linked groups and companies.

It said they had been trained in Iran by the Revolutionary Guard.

Earlier this year, it announced the arrest of several other suspected terrorists
allegedly working for Iran's secret services.

LOAD-DATE: May 31, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDM


                   Copyright 2012 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              361 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                    Scotsman

                             May 30, 2012 Wednesday

40 suspects held over terror plot' to attack Eurovision Song Contest

BYLINE: Aida Sultanova

LENGTH: 547  words


AUTHORITIES in Azerbaijan thwarted a terror network that planned to attack the
Eurovision Song Contest and hotels housing foreigners in the capital for the
event, officials said today.

Authorities said that 40 suspects had been arrested in the run-up to the contest
on Saturday.

A number of weapons, including several kilos of explosives and dozens of guns
and hand grenades, were also seized.

Targets for the attacks included the song contest venue in Baku, for which
militants had obtained tickets, the National  Security Ministry said.

"The armed group set itself the aim of mounting terrorist attacks in several
regions of Azerbaijan, creating a mood of powerlessness and lawlessness, sowing
panic, ethnic and religious enmity, disrupting  the public peace and damaging
Azerbaijan's international image," it said.

Weapons seized in raids against the alleged militants  included 13 assault
rifles, one machine gun, 12 handguns, three rifles, 3,400 rounds of bullets, 62
hand grenades, and several kilos of explosives.

The ministry did not say when the arrests took place, adding that the news was
not revealed in the run-up to the event to  prevent alarming visitors.

According to reports, the group had links to neighbouring Muslim republic
Dagestan, which has been plagued by Islamist insurgent attacks.

Azerbaijan has revealed details of other terrorist activities planned by groups
with ties to al-Qaeda and Iran in recent months, but this appears to be the most
extravagant plot revealed to date.

The country has played an active role in western-led counter-terrorist
programmes. That policy has placed a strain on its ties with neighbouring Iran.

The statement said other plots included plans for an assassination attempt on
Azerbaijan president Ilham Aliyev in April, as well as attacks on religious
pilgrimage sites and police stations.

The Eurovision attack would have centred on the Baku Crystal Hall, where the
competition was held over the weekend, officials said. The militants would have
also attacked Marriot and Hilton hotels in Baku.

At least one suspected plotter, 37-year-old Azerbaijani citizen Vugar Padarov,
and a security agent were killed during raids to shut down the terrorist group.

Padarov was identified in April as the leader of a group that had received
religious training in Syria. Some of its members had weapons training with the
Jihad Islami group in Pakistan and took part in fighting Nato-led troops in
Afghanistan, the National Security Ministry said.

In March, the ministry announced the arrests of 22 Azerbaijani citizens it said
had been hired by Iran to stage terror attacks against the US and Israeli
embassies as well as against western-linked groups and companies. It said they
had been trained in Iran by the  Revolutionary Guard.

Earlier this year, it announced the arrest of several other suspected terrorists
allegedly working for Iran's secret services.

The Eurovision Song Contest was held in the country amidst a war of words over
human rights.

The Crystal Hall arena was built by a German firm in eight months for an
undisclosed sum. But human rights groups said that some buildings in Baku were
torn down with the contest in mind and claimed some residents were forcefully
evicted, especially in areas around the Crystal Hall.

LOAD-DATE: June 15, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: STTS


                       Copyright 2012 Johnston Press Plc
                              All Rights Reserved

                              362 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                 Hampstead and Highgate Express (Ham and High)

                             May 31, 2012 Thursday

St Mary's on OIympic terror attack stand-by

SECTION: ROP

LENGTH: 197 words


Staff from St Mary's Hospital A&E have spent the last week ensuring they are
ready to react if there is a terrorist attack during the Olympics.



Up to 15 staff have been testing a new decontamination tent which can be erected
within 20 minutes if there are any chemical, biological, radiological or nuclear
incidents during the Games. One-piece gas tight chemical protective suits were
also used.

The tent would be deployed during any accidental or intentional release and
staff practised how to put it up and attach water supply to showers.

Divided into three sections, walking wounded would undress themselves in the
first section, shower in the second and get dressed into hospital gowns in the
third.

While the emergency services would decontaminate most casualties at the scene of
the incident, the tent would be erected outside the A&E - which is a designated
major trauma centre - for any walk-in casualties.

Niina Bell, emergency planner for Imperial College Healthcare NHS Trust, said:
"We're not only talking about a terrorist incident. We need to prepare for a
variety of possible scenarios such as a road traffic accident leading to a
serious chemical spillage from a vehicle."

LOAD-DATE: May 31, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: HHE


                      Copyright 2012 Archant Regional Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                              363 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                            i-Independent Print Ltd

                                  May 31, 2012
                                 First Edition

Song of the suicide bomber;
An opera about British terrorists planning an attack? Arifa Akbar asks the
creators of 'Babur in London' how they negotiated a cultural minefield

BYLINE: Arifa Akbar

SECTION: FEATURES; Pg. 36

LENGTH: 825 words


"M y name is Mo, short for Mohammed,/I'm a second-generation immigrant cliché:
Twentyeight, disenfranchised, well educated./ My mother is white, but I'm all
Paki./ My father owns a corner shop where I work,/ And I owe my allegiance to
global Umma./ My nation's the Republic of Islam."

So sings Mo, one of four aspiring suicide bombers in the cast of Babur in
London, a daring new opera that tackles modern-day terrorism as well as the
legacy of ancient Indian history in its libretto. The production is named after
Babur, a warrior who founded the Mughal empire in India in the 16th century, and
who was a famously brutal warlord as well as a brilliant poet.

The chamber piece, which begins its UK tour on 12 June after opening in Zurich
earlier this year, follows the lives of four radicalised British-Asian
characters from a London suburb - Mo, Faiz, Nafisa and Saira - as they meet the
ghostly spectre of Babur, debate with him such concepts as jihad, war, the
afterlife and the Islamic ban on alcohol, and finally carry out their deadly
attack.

Some characters wear Western dress while others are in traditional Islamic
attire including the hijab, and the stage set is a symbolic, debris-strewn
landscape of disused water bottles. Jeet Thayil, the Indian poet and mu-sician,
had long wanted to bring the legendary figure of Babur back to life for modern
audiences, but it was when he discussed the project with the composer Edward
Rushton and the director John Fulljames - soon after the Mumbai terror attacks -
that they decided to incorporate the theme of suicide bombings into the
libretto. The production team was aware of political sensitivities and the
danger of sensationalism so they entered into lengthy discussions with scholars
of Islam as well as the counter-terrorism think tank Quilliam Foundation, before
they drafted singers and embarked on rehearsals.

There will also be a series of accompanying workshops in some cities including
London and Bradford which will explore some of the questions that the opera
raises, as well as pre- and post-show debates.

Fulljames felt this was a legitimate subject for opera to handle, and dismissed
the idea that the production might offend sensibilities in Britain, in spite of
the London terror attacks which claimed 52 lives in 2005.

"In dealing with a subject like this, we were anxious [about audience response]
but in the end, we talked in detail about what the piece was, and what became
clear when we premiered it in Switzerland was that it was seen as a beautiful,
thoughtful, delicate piece of work, with nothing sensational about it."

The production is a collaboration between Opera North and the Opera Group (TOG);
the latter has been responsible for previous operas featuring dementia and
climate change.

Fulljames, who is also the former artistic director of TOG, says he passionately
believes that opera should be part of the contemporary world, and so should not
avoid grappling with current-day themes.

"I think opera needs to be part of the cultural landscape. The conversation
around it should be the same conversation we are having in our cities. If we
only make opera about martians who live on the moon, then it's deeply
unsatisfactory.

"What opera offers is an emotional space to have these conversations. For
example, dementia is very easy to understand as a science, but it's much harder
to understand the emotions. The subject matter here is intellectually - and
emotionally - challenging for the cast and audience."

Thayil has spent many years reading around the central historical figure in the
opera, including Babur's poetic autobiography, Baburnama, and the Koran,
initially read for its poetry and later studied seriously when the idea for the
libretto started to crystallise.

The libretto contains highly wrought moments during which the characters reflect
on death and suicide, but also some combative exchanges when the British youths
attempt to argue the case for staging a suicide bombing, while Babur - a warrior
famed for the immense carnage he wreaked - argues against the practice, saying:
"God doesn't countenance the slaughter of innocents."

Later on, he declares that these four modern jihadists are ignorant of the Holy
Book, reflecting on the battles he fought which did not include the death of
innocents in the way a suicide attack inevitably would: "Suicide is a sin and
murder is a sin,/ And in the eyes of God you are sinners."

While the themes are morbid and bloodthirsty, there is a rich and complex poetry
to the libretto. Thayil says this reflects Babur's own contradictory spirit.
"Poetry and violence are not mutually exclusive, and are in fact married, as a
reading of Homer or The Ramayana will prove."

Babur in London, Haymarket, Basingstoke (01256 844 244) 12 June; then touring to
Leeds, Birmingham, Oxford, London, Hull and Cheltenham until 7 July
(theoperagroup.co.uk)

Poetry and violence are not mutually exclusive, as a reading of Homer will
prove"

LOAD-DATE: May 30, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: III


                      Copyright 2012 Independent Print Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                              364 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                 Irish Examiner

                             May 31, 2012 Thursday

Eurovision 'terror attack plan' foiled in Azerbaijan

SECTION: IRELAND

LENGTH: 445 words


"The main goal of the group was to stage terrorist acts in Baku during
Eurovision," the National Security Ministry said in a statement. "As a result of
the measures taken, 40 members of the group were arrested."

The group was planning attacks on the concert hall where the Eurovision was
held, on Azerbaijan President Ilham Aliyev, police buildings, hotels used by
foreigners, mosques and other religious sites in the ex-Soviet state, it said.

The plotters "obtained Eurovision tickets with the aim of [committing] a
terrorist act at the Baku Crystal Hall" where the song competition was held, it
said.

They intended to target the luxury Hilton and Marriott hotels in the mainly
Muslim state's capital Baku by blowing up cars packed with explosives, according
to the statement.

Britain's Eurovision entrant Engelbert Humperdinck and France's Anggun were
among those staying at the Hilton during the competition, and the hotel was also
used for press conferences.

Jedward, Germany's Roman Lob and Aliyev's son-in-law Emin Agalarov, who sang at
the contest's interval, also visited the hotel during the contest, photographs
on the Hilton's Facebook page showed.

The suspects were also allegedly planning to hit the oil-rich country's
strongman leader Aliyev during his visit to Azerbaijan's north-western regions
last month.

Security services detained the alleged gang during operations in the cities of
Baku, Ganja and Sumgayit as well as several other regions of the country, the
ministry said without giving dates.

Some of the alleged plotters put up armed resistance and two suspects were
killed, both of them Azerbaijani citizens, the statement said.

Police seized 13 assault rifles, one machine gun, 12 handguns, three rifles,
3,400 rounds of bullets, 62 hand grenades, and several kilograms of explosives.

The plot was said to have been hatched during a meeting between three of the
suspects and what the statement described as "Dagestani emirs" across the border
in the neighbouring Russian republic of Dagestan in Feb 2011.

"The goal was to create an atmosphere of anarchy, to spread panic among
citizens," the ministry said.

After the attacks, the group was planning to hide in the forests of Dagestan and
wait for more armed militants to join them, it said.

Eurovision, watched by more than 100 million people worldwide, was the biggest
cultural event staged in Azerbaijan since independence from the Soviet Union in
1991.

The authorities spent hundreds of millions building the Crystal Hall venue and
beautifying the capital ahead of the competition in an attempt to win acclaim
for the Caspian Sea state previously known mainly as an energy exporter on
Europe's eastern fringe.

LOAD-DATE: May 31, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                    Copyright 2012 Thomas Crosbie Media Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              365 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                   MailOnline

                       May 31, 2012 Thursday 3:10 PM GMT

Azerbaijan 'arrested 40 and seized assault rifles and grenades as it thwarted
planned terror attacks on Eurovision'

BYLINE: EMMA REYNOLDS

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 469 words



     ·    Security forces claim song contest venue and major hotels were targets
     ·    Apparently most extravagant alleged attack to date
     ·    Other plots included assassination attempt on President Ilham Aliyev,
          according to officials


Security services in Azerbaijan say they arrested 40 suspects and seized weapons
as they thwarted a series of planned terror attacks against the Eurovision Song
Contest.

Officials said they had discovered 13 assault rifles, a machine gun, 12
handguns, three rifles, 3,400 rounds of bullets, 62 hand grenades, and several
kilograms of explosives.

Targets included the song contest venue and major hotels housing foreigners,
including the Marriott and Hilton in Baku, the National Security Ministry said.

Scroll down for video

Azerbaijan has in recent months reported being the target of terrorist
activities planned by groups with ties to al-Qaeda and Iran, and this appears to
be most extravagant alleged plot revealed to date.

An oil-rich nation of 9million people wedged between Russia and Iran, Azerbaijan
has nurtured close relations with the US and played an active role in
Western-led counter-terrorist programmes.

That policy has placed a strain on its ties with Iran, which hosts a sizeable
ethnic Azeri community.

Today's statement said other plots included plans for an assassination attempt
on President Ilham Aliyev in April, as well as attacks on religious pilgrimage
sites and police stations.

The statement provided no details on when the arrests took place.

'The armed group set itself the aim of mounting terrorist attacks in several
regions of Azerbaijan, creating a mood of powerlessness and lawlessness, sowing
panic, ethnic and religious enmity, disrupting the public peace and damaging
Azerbaijan's international image,' the statement said.

The Eurovision attack would have centred on the Baku Crystal Hall, where the
singing competition took place on Saturday.

At least one suspected plotter, 37-year-old Azerbaijani citizen Vugar Padarov,
and a security agent were killed during raids to shut down the terrorist group,
the statement said.

Padarov was identified in an April security statement as the leader of a group
that had received religious training in Syria. Some of its members had weapons
training with the Jihad Islami group in Pakistan and took part in fighting
Nato-led troops in Afghanistan, the National Security Ministry said.

In March, the ministry announced the arrests of 22 Azerbaijani citizens it said
had been hired by Iran to stage terror attacks against the US and Israeli
embassies as well as against western-linked groups and companies.

It said they had been trained in Iran by the Revolutionary Guard.

Earlier this year, it announced the arrest of several other suspected terrorists
allegedly working for Iran's secret services.

LOAD-DATE: June 18, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDM


                   Copyright 2012 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              366 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                    Scotsman

                              June 1, 2012 Friday

Khazakhstan fears terrorist attack

LENGTH: 55  words


Kazakh president Nursultan Nazarbayev believes a "terrorist act" caused the
deaths of 14 border guards and a civilian at a post at the frontier with China.

A senior border guard official said the charred bodies of at least 12 Kazakh
border guards and a gamekeeper had been discovered at a torched post in
southeastern Kazakhstan.

LOAD-DATE: June 15, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: STTS


                       Copyright 2012 Johnston Press Plc
                              All Rights Reserved

                              367 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring Middle East - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                              June 3, 2012 Sunday

Yemen political parties, organizations slam Al-Sab'in Square "terrorist attack"

LENGTH: 1501 words


Text of report by state-run Yemeni news agency Saba website

["Local reactions continue denouncing Al-Sab'in Square heinous, terrorist
crime"]

Reactions of the parties, political organizations, public institutions, and
youth and cultural components have continued to condemn the heinous terrorist
crime which targeted members of some military and security units in Al-Sab'in
Square in the Yemeni capital Sanaa, and the consequent brutal carnage which
resulted in a large number of martyrs and wounded.

The Yemeni Culture Organization condemned the dastardly terrorist attack which
targeted the military and security company formations in Al-Sab'in Square and
killed scores of the armed and security forces.

In a statement, which the Yemen News Agency, SABA, received a copy of, the
organization said that while it condemned the criminal incident, it stood with
all the honourable citizens and the political leadership represented by
President Abd-Rabbuh Mansur Hadi in facing the criminal killers and thwarting
their plans.

The General Federation of Workers' Trade Unions in Yemen, public corporations,
and their branches denounced the terrorist attack which targeted members of the
security and armed forces during the military parade rehearsals in Sab'in Square
and resulted in many martyrs and wounded people. In a statement issued on 22
May, which SABA News received a copy of, they considered the attack a crime
against all the Yemeni people, armed forces, security, and humanity in general.
They expressed their deepest condolences to families of the martyrs, the Yemeni
people, the political leadership, and the security and armed forces for the
martyrdom of their finest colleagues, brothers, and sons in Al-Sab'in Square and
any land where those treacherous hands and ignorant minds were able to reach
them.

Local authorities in Abyan Governorate denounced the terrorist attack which
targeted a number of military and security units in Al-Sab'in Square and
considered it an immoral and criminal act.

Abyan Governor Jamal Nasir al-Aqil said: "We come from Lawdar, the city of
steadfastness and defiance, which defeated terrorism and strongly confronted the
terrorist gangs that are against the values and teachings of Islam, strongly
condemn this barbaric hateful vile which reflects the desire for murder, blood,
and torn bodies; under false religious and disgraceful slogans which the Yemeni
people, who carried the flares of the heavenly message and values and teachings
of Islam to various parts of the world, realized.

Al-Aqil stressed that the sons of Abyan will remain faithful to the blood of the
heroic martyrs of the armed forces and the public committees who wrote bright
and shining stories of strength and strive against the criminal gangs and those
who followed their footsteps. These are the gangs that were defeated in the
proud Abyan which had previously been the hotbed and stronghold of those
elements. Al-Aqil added that efforts would continue day and night, no matter
what the sacrifices might be, to eradicate the scattered terrorists and all
their murderous ideas and free Abyan from them.

Al-Aqil praised the efforts of the tribes, notables of the society, and public
committees in Abyan Governorate in resisting and confronting those criminal
gangs and stressed the importance of closing ranks and standing firm to
eliminate those elements from the whole country.

The Yemen Scouts and Guides Association strongly condemned and denounced the
treacherous terrorist attack that targeted the military and security company
formations in Al-Sab'in Square during the military parade rehearsals for the
22nd National Day, and considered that this criminal act violates the Islamic
values and the Yemeni traditions.

The Yemen Scouts and Guides Association also called upon all Yemenis to rally
around the political leadership to confront terrorism, stressing the importance
of arresting the perpetrators and bringing them to justice to receive their
deterrent punishment.

Preachers and imams of the mosques, boy and girl guides, social figures, and
shaykhs in Aden Governorate denounced the treacherous terrorist act which
targeted members of the security and armed forces in Al-Sab'in Square in Sanaa
during the military parade rehearsals to celebrate National Day. They stressed
that the cowardly terrorist act was alien to the traditions and values of the
Yemeni people which emanate from their morals and love to their country and
people and their defence of the gains they achieved during the various stages of
the revolution and unity. They noted the importance of closing ranks and rising
above all the pain to intensify the efforts to eradicate the forces of evil,
darkness, and terrorism.

Activists for development and human rights organization also denounced the
criminal and atrocious incident of Al-Sab'in Square in Sanaa. The organization
stressed that those criminal incidents which do not comply with the teachings of
Islam and the international conventions and treaties must be confronted firmly.
The organization called for working to provide security and public order, and
expressed its sincere condolences to the families of the victims. The
organization called upon the president and national consensus government to
quickly unveil the circumstances of the incident, start a serious and
transparent questioning of those who stand behind this heinous crime, and inform
the public about the results.

The General People's Congress [GPC] in Al-Hudaydah denounced the terrorist
attack and stressed in a statement that it strongly supports the political
leadership represented by President Abd-Rabbuh Mansur Hadi in confronting all
forms and manifestations of terrorism and that it supports the heroes of the
security and armed forces.

The GPC and National Democratic Alliance in Ta'izz Governorate denounced the
Al-Sab'in terrorist catastrophe, and demanded that the national consensus
government and in its forefront the Interior Ministry to assume responsibility,
deal with the incident firmly and responsibly, chase and arrest the criminals
wherever they might be, and make them stand an open trial.

In the same context, the executive office of the General Union of Teaching and
Education Professions denounced the terrorist crime and demanded, in a statement
which SABA News received a copy of, the president, the consensus government, and
all competent authorities to quickly conduct the investigation and inform the
public about the details of the crime. It also called on workers in the teaching
and educational field to carry out their responsibilities and role in making the
children and students aware of the dangers of this enemy and its poisonous
ideas.

The leadership of the local authorities in Raymah Governorate together with the
executive office, government departments, civil organizations, parties,
political organizations, youth, students, and all the community segments in
Raymah condemned this heinous, criminal act. The condemnation statements
affirmed that the citizens of Raymah Governorate stand by the honourable people
of Yemen and their wise leadership represented by President Abd-Rabbuh Mansur
Hadi and the heroes of the security and armed forces to strongly and firmly
confront this deviant group that is alien to the authentic Yemeni society and to
Islam. The statement affirmed their support to the victims' families and the
wounded people, and asked God Almighty to bestow patience and fortitude upon the
families of the martyrs, including families of the martyrs from the governorate,
and rest the martyrs' souls in peace.

The councils and executive office of Sanaa Governorate condemned this terrorist
act. The governorate's statement expressed the Sanaa residents' condemnation of
this cowardly act that targets the security, stability, unity, and reputation of
Yemen. They stressed that the people of Sanaa Governorate support the heroes of
the security and armed forces to fight this deviant group and expel it from
Yemen and the Arabian Peninsula in general. They also asserted their cooperation
with all Yemenis to fight this criminal organization which damages the
reputation of Yemen and undermines its security and stability.

The General Secretariat of the Democratic Nasserite Party condemned the cowardly
criminal incident that targeted security personnel and a number of security and
armed forces units in Al-Sab'in Square on 21 May during their preparation for
the military parade on the occasion of the 22nd Republic of Yemen National Day.

In its statement, the Nasserite Party and all its foundations in the
governorates condemned and denounced this cowardly incident and demanded the
quick adoption of deterrent measures to punish those responsible for this
cowardly act. The party noted that this obnoxious criminal act was committed by
the enemies of the country to replace rejoice by sorrow through targeting
officers of the security and armed forces in Al-Sab'in Square.

Source: Yemen News Agency Saba website, Sanaa, in Arabic 22 May 12

LOAD-DATE: June 3, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2012 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              368 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                                 Scottish Star

                              June 3, 2012 Sunday
                                   Edition 1;
                                    Scotland

DIRTY BOMB THREAT TO GAMES;
Security beefed up to stop nuclear terror attack

BYLINE: LEE SORRELL; DOMINIK LEMANSKI

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 556 words


PRIVATE security workers are being hired by the Government to help the Border
Agency stop a possible nuclear attack on the Olympics.

Ministers fear terrorists could try to smuggle "radiological weapons" into
Britain.

The "dirty bombs" scatter radioactive material over a wide area.

Services giant SERCO will supply up to 300 workers from mid-July at ports and
airports to look out for nuclear materials.

The contractors are understood to be replacing trained UK Border Force guards
who will be relocated elsewhere to deal with the growing passport control
crisis.

Queues of up to four hours are predicted for visitors arriving at airports such
as Heathrow during the Olympics Games.

It is understood the new SERCO workers will have no powers of arrest or training
in checking travel documents, prompting fears their deployment will undermine
border security.

A Home Office source said: "The fact the Government has felt the need to draft
in private security guards to help thwart terrorist efforts to smuggle a dirty
bomb into Britain highlights a critical shortage in our existing capability to
guard this country's borders."

Last night the Government remained tight-lipped on the details of the
multi-million pound SERCO contract or where the staff would be operating. But is
understood that one crucial entry point will be the French side of the Channel
Tunnel in Coquelles.

The move has been criticised by the Public and Commercial Services Union which
represents immigration staff.

At a meeting at the Home Office last week union leaders voiced concern that
SERCO staff would not be properly trained or have security clearance to do the
job.

Officials apparently defended the move on the grounds the Home Office was "under
pressure to reinforce the front line during the summer period, especially during
the Olympics".

Service giants SERCO have won a host of lucrative contracts with the Government,
from escorting prisoners to supplying NHS support services. The company's
workers previously filled in for striking border staff during a day-long strike
last November.

Border entry points known as early capability sites were set up in 2009 to
detect radiation on vehicles and people entering Britain and were installed by
SERCO.

They were introduced as part of Programme Cyclamen, a Border Force-Home Office
joint scheme that forms a key element of the UK's counter-terrorism strategy.

Under the scheme, trained border officers screen most sea and rail traffic,
including containers, freight, vehicles and passengers passing through border
points into Britain.

If an alarm is activated officers are expected to use handheld devices to
investigate the source of the radioactivity. Just over 40 SERCO contract staff
were used during the November strike.

Last night a Home Office spokesman told us: "The security of the UK border
remains our top priority and all staff are security cleared and fully trained to
operate their specific role."

¦ THE Olympic Torch relay went up a gear yesterday when the flame visited the
Isle of Man TT.

Three-time World Enduro Champion David Knight, 34, carefully kept it alive as he
rode pillion with Manxman former TT winner Richard "Milky" Quayle, 39. Knight
was one of 38 torchbearers who carried the flame around the island.

The Torch ended the day on a plane to Belfast, ahead of a five-day visit to
Northern Ireland.

LOAD-DATE: June 3, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Picture: STEPHEN DAVISON

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DSSscot


                       Copyright 2012 Express Newspapers
                              All Rights Reserved

                              369 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                   MailOnline

                        June 4, 2012 Monday 2:25 PM GMT

Four terrorists convicted of planning Mumbai-style attack on awards ceremony
hosted by newspaper that printed cartoon of Mohammad

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 361 words


By RICHARD ORANGE

Four men have been convicted by a Danish court for planning an attack on
Denmark's Jyllands-Posten newspaper, in retaliation for the paper printing
offensive cartoons of the Prophet Mohammed.

The four men, all Muslims resident in Sweden, pleaded 'not guilty' to the
charges. But, in a unanimous verdict broadcast on Monday morning, Glostrup
district court found all four guilty of terrorism.

According to PET, the Danish security service, the men had planned to 'kill as
many people as possible' by raiding an awards ceremony held by the newspaper.
They face up to 16 years in jail when sentenced later on Monday.

Three of the men were seized in a Copenhagen flat in December 2010, along with a
machine gun with a silencer, a revolver, 108 bullets, and 200 plastic handcuff
strips - with which they were accused of planning an assault similar to the 2008
Mumbai attacks on two five-star hotels.

In the weeks following the arrests, the fourth man was picked up in a flat on
the outskirts of Stockholm.

Another man, an Iraqi, was seized in Copenhagen, but was later released.

Sahbi Zalouti, 37, Munir Awad, 29, and Omar Abdalla Aboelazm, 30, are all
Swedish citizens - of Tunisian, Lebanese and Moroccan descent respectively.

The fourth man convicted, 44-year-old Mounir Dhahri, is a Tunisian national.

PET said it seized the men only days before they planned to attack the Sporting
Newcomer of the Year event, which was attended by Denmark's Crown Prince
Frederik.

Jyllands-Posten has been a terror target since it published 12 satirical
cartoons of Mohammed in 2005, breaking a taboo in Islam against depicting its
prophet.

The most notorious cartoon showed Mohammad carrying a bomb on his head with a
lit fuse, instead of a turban.

The cartoons sparked street protests around the world, leading to the bombing of
the Danish embassy in Pakistan, and arson attacks on Danish embassies in Syria,
Lebanon and Iran.

In its latest terror threat assessment, released at the end of January, PET
argued that the country remained 'a priority terrorist target among militant
Islamists' - partly because of the newspaper's decision to reprint the cartoons
in 2008.

LOAD-DATE: June 6, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDM


                   Copyright 2012 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              370 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                  Guardian.com

                              June 5, 2012 Tuesday

Drone attacks create terrorist safe havens, warns former CIA official

BYLINE: Paul Harrisguardian.co.uk

LENGTH: 705 words

ABSTRACT

Indiscriminate use of drones in Middle East causes too many civilian casualties,
warns former CIA counterterrorism head

FULL TEXT

A former top terrorism official at the CIA has warned that President Barack
Obama's controversial drone programme is far too indiscriminate in hitting
targets and could lead to such political instability that it creates terrorist
safe havens.

Obama's increased use of drones to attack suspected Islamic militants in
Pakistan, Afghanistan, Somalia and Yemen has become one of the most
controversial aspects of his national security policy. He has launched at least
275 strikes in Pakistan alone; a rate of attack that is far higher than his
predecessor George W Bush.

Defenders of the policy say it provides a way of hitting high-profile targets,
such as al-Qaida number two, Abu Yahya al-Libi. But critics say the definition
of militant is used far too broadly and there are too many civilian casualties.
The London-based Bureau of Investigative Journalism estimates up to 830
civilians, including many women and children, might have been killed by drone
attacks in Pakistan, 138 in Yemen and 57 in Somalia. Hundreds more have been
injured.

Now Robert Grenier, who headed the CIA's counter-terrorism center from 2004 to
2006 and was previously a CIA station chief in Pakistan, has told the Guardian
that the drone programme is targeted too broadly. "It [the drone program] needs
to be targeted much more finely. We have been seduced by them and the unintended
consequences of our actions are going to outweigh the intended consequences,"
Grenier said in an interview.

Grenier emphasised that the use of drones was a valuable tool in tackling
terrorism but only when used against specific identified targets, who have been
tracked and monitored to a place where a strike is feasible. However, recent
media revelations about Obama's programme have revealed a more widespread use of
the strike capability, including the categorising of all military-age males in a
strike zone of a target as militants. That sort of broad definition and the
greater use of drones has outraged human rights organisations.

The BIJ has reported that drone strikes in Pakistan over the weekend hit a
funeral gathering for a militant slain in a previous strike and also may have
accidentally hit a mosque. That sort of action adds credence to the claims that
the drone campaign is likely to cause more damage by creating anger at the US
than it does in eliminating terrorist threats.

"We have gone a long way down the road of creating a situation where we are
creating more enemies than we are removing from the battlefield. We are already
there with regards to Pakistan and Afghanistan," he said.

Grenier said he had particular concerns about Yemen, where al-Qaida linked
groups have launched an insurgency and captured swathes of territory from the
over-stretched local army. US drones have been active in the country, striking
at targets that have included killing US-born cleric Anwar al-Awlaki and his
16-year-old son.

The BIJ estimates that there have been up to 41 confirmed US drone strikes in
Yemen since 2002 and possibly up a 55 unconfirmed ones. Grenier said the strikes
were too indiscriminate and causing outrage among the civilian population in the
country, lending support to Islamists and seeing a growth in anti-US sentiment.

"That brings you to a place where young men, who are typically armed, are in the
same area and may hold these militants in a certain form of high regard. If you
strike them indiscriminately you are running the risk of creating a terrific
amount of popular anger. They have tribes and clans and large families. Now all
of a sudden you have a big problem ... I am very concerned about the creation of
a larger terrorist safe haven in Yemen," Grenier said.

Grenier was the CIA's station chief in Islamabad when terrorists struck the
World Trade Center in New York and attacked the Pentagon on September 11, 2001.
He played a key role in co-ordinating covert operations that led up to the
downfall of the Taliban in Afghanistan. He later headed up the CIA's CTC where
he led the CIA's global operations in the War on Terror as its top
counter-terrorism official. He left the agency in 2006.

LOAD-DATE: June 5, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2012 Guardian Unlimited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              371 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                        June 5, 2012 Tuesday 3:51 PM GMT

At least 100 extremists support Breivik says EDL-linked group;
At least a hundred right-wing extremists support Anders Behring Breivik's brutal
terror attacks last July, the leader of the English Defence League's Norwegian
sister organisation told an Oslo court on Tuesday.

BYLINE: By Richard Orange in Malmo

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 358 words


"I know there are many out there who share Breivik's views and support his
actions," Ronny Alte, the former leader of the Norwegian Defence League, said.
"Perhaps a hundred that I know of."

Mr Alte's claim will increase fears among Europe's security services of copycat
attacks inspired by Breivik's bomb blast and gun massacre last July, and its
accompanying manifesto.

It will also help the killer's lawyers make the case that their client's
militant anti-Islamic ideology is shared by others, and does not reflect a
delusional grasp of reality.

Mr Alte stressed that the vast majority of members of both the Norwegian and
English Defence Leagues rejected violent terrorist acts such as that carried out
by Breivik.

"The vast majority is opposed to his actions. However, some support the
manifesto, some support the bomb in the Oslo ministries, while others support
the attack."

After Mr Alte's testimony, Breivik told the court of a series of childhood
experiences which he said had shaped his attitudes towards Muslims.

When he was seven, a Turkish friend's father allegedly wrecked his bicycle
because he had offended him. When he was 15, he was slapped by a Pakistani
underground driver for riding outside the carriage. Later, in 1995, he was
"threatened" by a Kovovo-Albanian youth.

"Taken separately, all these episodes are not so serious," he admitted. But he
said that together they had led to concern about the level of Muslim immigration
into Norway.

Breivik's closest friends told the court last month that they had no
recollection of any of the radicalising encounters with Muslims Breivik had
described in the manifesto he sent out on the day of his attack.

Breivik has confessed to killing eight people by detonating a bomb in the
government quarters in Moscow, and then killing 69 more in a shooting rampage at
a youth camp on the Island of Utoya.

But he claims that the attacks were "necessary" to alert Norway to the threat
caused my Islamic immigration.

The court announced today that the final verdict in the case, previously
expected to be given just before the anniversary of the attacks on July 20,
might now be delayed until August 24.

LOAD-DATE: June 6, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTNS


                  Copyright 2012 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              372 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                               Independent.co.uk

                      June 6, 2012 Wednesday 11:18 AM GMT

US claims al-Qa'ida scalp as drone attack kills terror network's No 2 Abu Yahya
al-Libi;
Strike in Pakistan follows protests by Islamabad over use of controversial
remote-controlled aircraft

BYLINE: Andrew Buncombe, David Usborne

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 784 words


The United States claimed a signal victory in its battle to defeat al-Qa'ida
yesterday with the killing of a Libyan militant believed to have become No 2 in
the network after the death of Osama bin Laden last year.

The White House said the elimination of Abu Yahya al-Libi was a "major blow" to
the terror group. As "general manager" of al-Qa'ida, he would be hard to replace
or replicate, Jay Carney, spokesman for President Barack Obama, contended. He
said his death would speed the demise of al-Qa'ida.

US and Pakistani officials indicated off the record that Abu Yahya had been
among several foreign fighters killed in pre-dawn strikes by a US drone on a mud
house in North Waziristan in north-west Pakistan on Monday. The killing of Abu
Yahya may be counted as the biggest success yet in the eight-year history of
clandestine US drone strikes.

"We have confirmation of his death," Mr Carney told reporters, offering no
further elaboration. "There is now no clear successor to take on the breadth of
his responsibilities." Since the killing of Bin Laden by a Navy SEALs team last
year, the US has killed a dozen or more additional senior al-Qa'ida militants
using unmanned drones. The US does not comment directly on drone missions, which
are covert.

An official in Washington suggested he was "among al-Qa'ida's most experienced
and versatile leaders" and had "played a critical role in the group's planning
against the West, providing oversight of the external operations efforts". A
Pakistani official told Reuters that Abu Yahya had died in hospital after being
struck by one of two missiles fired. "We intercepted some conversations between
militants. They were talking about the death of a 'sheikh'," the official said,
using a title given to senior religious leaders.

The profile of Abu Yahya, who was in his 40s and an Islamic scholar, soared
after he escaped from a US military jail at Bagram Air Force Base in Afghanistan
in the summer of 2005. Since then he has appeared in dozens of al-Qa'ida videos
and following the killing of Bin Laden last year by US Special Forces it was
reported that the Libyan had become the group's second-in-command. US officials
believe he was one of only a few network commanders in a position to approve
terror operations and issue fatwas.

The US had offered $1m for information leading to Abu Yahya as part of its
Rewards for Justice Programme. News of his death will be a major boost for
backers of Washington's controversial drone programme.

While campaigners in Pakistan say many innocent civilians are killed by the
strikes and the military is at least publicly opposed to them, the US has
aggressively defended the drone attacks and their frequency has increased during
the Obama administration, who reportedly personally approves or vetoes the
so-called "kill list" for each strike. There have been eight drone strikes in
the past two weeks.

Yesterday, the Pakistani foreign ministry summoned the US ambassador Richard
Hoagland to protest at the recent drone strikes. "He was informed that the drone
strikes were unlawful, against international law and a violation of Pakistan's
sovereignty," a statement from the foreign ministry said.

Mirza Shahzad Akbar, a lawyer who is representing the families of civilians
killed by drone strikes in lawsuits against the US, said it was initially
reported that six people had been killed in yesterday's operation but that once
rescuers reached the area they found that 16 people had been killed.

Regardless of what happened to Abu Yahya, "you have killed another 15 people",
he said. "In the last two weeks 56 people have been killed by drone strikes,"
added Mr Akbar, of the Freedom Foundation group.

Monday's attack struck in Hesokhel, located east of Miranshah, the main town of
North Waziristan. Abu Yahya, also known as Mohamed Hassan Qaid, had been
operating in this area since his escape from US custody along with three of his
cellmates.

Wanted dead or alive: Al-Qa'ida's top men

Abu Yahya al-Libi

Nationality Libyan

Role Believed to be al-Qa'ida's Number 2, key member of the group's Shariah
Committee.

Killed by a drone strike in North Waziristan on Monday.

Osama bin Laden

Nationality Saudi

Role Founder and leader of al-Qai'da.

Killed by US commandos in May 2011.

Anwar al-Awlaki

Nationality Duel US-Yemeni citizenship

Role Leader of al-Qa'ida in the Arabian Peninsula.

Killed by US drone strike in Yemen in September 2011.

Saif al-Adel

Nationality Egyptian

Role Senior al-Qa'ida commander

Price on head Up to $5m

Adnan el Shukrijumah

Nationality Saudi

Role Plans global attacks.

Price on head $5m

Ayman al-Zawahiri

Nationality Egyptian

Role Current leader of al-Qai'da - took over after Osama bin Laden's death.

Price on head Up to $25m

LOAD-DATE: June 7, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBI


                  Copyright 2012 Independent News & Media plc
                              All Rights Reserved

                              373 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                            The Independent (London)

                             June 6, 2012 Wednesday
                                 First Edition

US claims al-Qa'ida scalp as drone attack kills terror network's No 2;
Strike in Pakistan follows protests by Islamabad over use of controversial
remote-controlled aircraft

BYLINE: ANDREW BUNCOMBE and DAVID USBORNE

SECTION: WORLD; Pg. 24

LENGTH: 784 words


The United States claimed a signal victory in its battle to defeat al-Qa'ida
yesterday with the killing of a Libyan militant believed to have become No 2 in
the network after the death of Osama bin Laden last year.

The White House said the elimination of Abu Yahya al-Libi was a "major blow" to
the terror group. As "general manager" of al-Qa'ida, he would be hard to replace
or replicate, Jay Carney, spokesman for President Barack Obama, contended. He
said his death would speed the demise of al-Qa'ida.

US and Pakistani officials indicated off the record that Abu Yahya had been
among several foreign fighters killed in pre-dawn strikes by a US drone on a mud
house in North Waziristan in north-west Pakistan on Monday. The killing of Abu
Yahya may be counted as the biggest success yet in the eight-year history of
clandestine US drone strikes.

"We have confirmation of his death," Mr Carney told reporters, offering no
further elaboration. "There is now no clear successor to take on the breadth of
his responsibilities." Since the killing of Bin Laden by a Navy SEALs team last
year, the US has killed a dozen or more additional senior al-Qa'ida militants
using unmanned drones. The US does not comment directly on drone missions, which
are covert.

An official in Washington suggested he was "among al-Qa'ida's most experienced
and versatile leaders" and had "played a critical role in the group's planning
against the West, providing oversight of the external operations efforts". A
Pakistani official told Reuters that Abu Yahya had died in hospital after being
struck by one of two missiles fired. "We intercepted some conversations between
militants. They were talking about the death of a 'sheikh'," the official said,
using a title given to senior religious leaders.

The profile of Abu Yahya, who was in his 40s and an Islamic scholar, soared
after he escaped from a US military jail at Bagram Air Force Base in Afghanistan
in the summer of 2005. Since then he has appeared in dozens of al-Qa'ida videos
and following the killing of Bin Laden last year by US Special Forces it was
reported that the Libyan had become the group's second-in-command. US officials
believe he was one of only a few network commanders in a position to approve
terror operations and issue fatwas.

The US had offered $1m for information leading to Abu Yahya as part of its
Rewards for Justice Programme. News of his death will be a major boost for
backers of Washington's controversial drone programme.

While campaigners in Pakistan say many innocent civilians are killed by the
strikes and the military is at least publicly opposed to them, the US has
aggressively defended the drone attacks and their frequency has increased during
the Obama administration, who reportedly personally approves or vetoes the
so-called "kill list" for each strike. There have been eight drone strikes in
the past two weeks.

Yesterday, the Pakistani foreign ministry summoned the US ambassador Richard
Hoagland to protest at the recent drone strikes. "He was informed that the drone
strikes were unlawful, against international law and a violation of Pakistan's
sovereignty," a statement from the foreign ministry said.

Mirza Shahzad Akbar, a lawyer who is representing the families of civilians
killed by drone strikes in lawsuits against the US, said it was initially
reported that six people had been killed in yesterday's operation but that once
rescuers reached the area they found that 16 people had been killed.

Regardless of what happened to Abu Yahya, "you have killed another 15 people",
he said. "In the last two weeks 56 people have been killed by drone strikes,"
added Mr Akbar, of the Freedom Foundation group.

Monday's attack struck in Hesokhel, located east of Miranshah, the main town of
North Waziristan. Abu Yahya, also known as Mohamed Hassan Qaid, had been
operating in this area since his escape from US custody along with three of his
cellmates.

DEAD OR ALIVE

THE HEART OF AL-QA'IDA

Abu Yahya al-Libi

Nationality: Libyan

Role: Believed to be al-Qa'ida's No 2, key member of the group's Shariah
Committee.

Killed by a drone strike in North Waziristan on Monday

Osama bin Laden

Nationality: Saudi

Role: Founder and leader of al-Qa'ida.

Killed by US commandos in May 2011

Anwar al-Awlaki

Nationality: Duel US-Yemeni citizenship

Role: Leader of al-Qa'ida in the Arabian Peninsula.

Killed by US drone strike in Yemen in September 2011

Saif al-Adel

Nationality: Egyptian

Role: Senior al-Qa'ida commander

Price on head: Up to $5m

Adnan el Shukrijumah

Nationality: Saudi

Role: Plans global attacks.

Price on head: $5m

Ayman al-Zawahiri

Nationality: Egyptian

Role: Current leader of al-Qa'ida - took over after Osama bin Laden's death.

Price on head: Up to $25m

LOAD-DATE: June 6, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: IA


                      Copyright 2012 Independent Print Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                              374 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                   The Mirror

                             June 7, 2012 Thursday
                                 Ulster Edition

OFFICERS 'LURED INTO' GRENADE TERROR ATTACK;
DISSIDENTS BLAMED

BYLINE: VICTORIA MCMAHON

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 19

LENGTH: 339 words


A HAND grenade was hurled at police officers by dissidents after they were lured
into a trap yesterday.

It is believed the attackers smashed a window at a home in Whin Park, Dunmurry,
to bring officers into the area so they could launch their explosive device.

It is the second such attack against police within five days. On Saturday a
device was thrown at a police Land Rover in Derry. PSNI chiefs said they are
treating that bombing as a murder attempt against their officers.

In yesterday's outrage, one officer stayed at the car while two others went
inside the vandalised home on the outskirts of West Belfast.

As they were leaving, shortly after midnight, they came under attack.

Two residents' cars parked along the pavement took the full force of the blast,
shielding the officers from injury.

The attacker is believed to have fled on foot.

There was a report of two street lamps being vandalised on Tuesday to allow the
attacker or attackers to make their escape down an avenue and into a nearby
wooded area in darkness.

Dissident republicans were being blamed for the bomb attack yesterday.

Forensic officers in white suits spent the day scouring the cordoned-off area
examining the mangled metal from damaged cars for clues.

Shocked Elisabeth Dodds, from Whin Park, had been standing with her son at the
spot the grenade went off just before the attack.

She said. "Either one of us could have been at that car when the bomb went off.

"It really shocked us, we haven't been in bed."

Democratic Unionist MLA Jonathan Craig visited the scene of the "orchestrated"
attack.

He said: "The wires of two street lamps in an avenue had been pulled out the
night before so no one would see them. It's a very brazen attack.

"Thankfully two parked cars shielded the officers from the force of the
explosion and this probably saved their lives."

First Minister Peter Robinson said those who carried out the attack "don't act
on behalf of any section of our community".

SDLP Councillor Brian Heading also slammed the incident as a "totally reckless
attack".

LOAD-DATE: June 7, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: SCENEJ The broken window and evidence being taken away PROBEn A
forensics officer removes debris in Dunmurry yesterday

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                            Copyright 2012 MGN Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              375 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                   The Mirror

                             June 7, 2012 Thursday
                                 Ulster Edition

TERROR BASE 'READY FOR NEW ATTACK';
DISSIDENTS

BYLINE: ALAN ERWIN

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 112 words


AN alleged terrorist training camp was in advanced preparations for an attack on
police or the public, the High Court heard yesterday.

Prosecutors also claimed suspects were covertly recorded discussing methods,
recruitment, arms acquisition and even their willingness to accept bad publicity
for killing a PSNI officer.

Details emerged during a bail application by one of those accused of being at
the alleged camp in Formil Wood, Gorticashel Road, Omagh.

Terence Aidan Coney, 33, of Malabhui Road, Carrickmore, Co Tyrone, denies
preparation of terrorist acts, possession of a firearm with intent and attending
a place used for terrorist training.

The application was adjourned.

LOAD-DATE: June 7, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                            Copyright 2012 MGN Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              376 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                       June 7, 2012 Thursday 2:59 PM GMT

US will continue drone strokes in Pakistan;
The United States will continue to launch Predator drone air strikes on al-Qaeda
and Taliban targets in Pakistan to stop terrorists plotting attacks on American
soil, US Defence Secretary Leon Panetta said in New Delhi.

BYLINE: By Dean Nelson New Delhi

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 323 words


He was speaking after officials in Washington claimed al-Qaeda's number two, Abu
Yahya al-Libi, had been killed in a drone strike in Pakistan's lawless North
Waziristan tribal area. Al-Libi had been involved in plotting international
terrorist attacks and strikes on Nato forces in Afghanistan.

The former CIA director brushed aside criticism that the drone strikes were an
attack on Pakistan's sovereignty and said they had been an effective way of
destroying al-Qaeda's control and command centres in Pakistan and preventing
them launching new attacks on America.

"This is about our sovereignty as well, because there was a group of individuals
who attacked the United States on 9/11 and killed 3,000 of our citizens. And we
went to war against those who attacked the United States of America.

"The leadership of those that were involved in planning this attack are located
in Pakistan, in the FATA (Federally Administered Tribal Areas). And we have made
clear to the Pakistanis that the United States of America is going to defend
ourselves against those that would attack us. And we have done just that. We
have gone after their leadership, and we have done it effectively, targeting at
- targeting al-Qaida leadership and terrorists..... we have made very clear that
we are going to continue to defend ourselves," he said in a speech to the New
Delhi-based Institute for Defence Studies and Analyses.

He described Washington's relationship with Pakistan as "complicated" and that
it was often left "frustrated" by its lack of co-operation, but stressed it had
to continue to working with its leaders.

"We are fighting a war in the FATA. We are fighting a war against terrorism. We
have - I think what I try to stress with the Pakistanis is that terrorism is
just as much a threat to their country as it is for ours. They also happen to be
a nuclear power, and it's extremely important that we maintain the relationship
with them," he said.

LOAD-DATE: June 8, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTNS


                  Copyright 2012 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              377 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                 thetimes.co.uk

                        June 8, 2012 Friday 12:01 AM GMT

Drone attacks;
'Terrorists deliberately choose civilian areas, their aim being to kill as many
innocent people as possible'

SECTION: LETTERS TO THE EDITOR

LENGTH: 228 words


Sir, There is a fundamental difference "between the terrorists who plant
explosive devices in civilian areas and the drones which attack civilian areas"
(letter, 7 June). Terrorists deliberately choose civilian areas, their aim being
to kill as many innocent people as possible; drones, on the other hand, do not
choose civilian areas - they merely follow their targets who choose to hide in
such areas. Drone attacks, however, do result in the killings of innocents.

This, unfortunately, cannot be avoided because there is no such thing as a clean
war. But the use of drones has a major advantage over other weapons of war such
as bombers: they can linger for hours over their targets, which allows the
military to sort out whether it has found the right target and whether the
resulting collateral damage is tolerable. There is even time for lawyers to
review troublesome cases.

Since drones do not target civilians intentionally, it is difficult to see how
any moral equivalence between their use and the deliberate killings by
terrorists can be drawn.

Randhir Singh BainsGants Hill, Essex

Sir, I do not wish to debate the ethics of killing the al-Qaeda No 2 in Pakistan
(report, June 6), but I wonder whether President Obama would favour the use of
drones quite so enthusiastically if unfriendly powers had the capability to
retaliate.

Peter M. G. Hime Salisbury, Wilts

LOAD-DATE: June 9, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBTTO


                     Copyright 2012 News International Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                              378 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                  Wigan Today

                              June 8, 2012 Friday

Hammer attack victim tells of terror

LENGTH: 492  words


A WIGAN landlord has described the terrifying moment he was viciously attacked
by raiders with a hammer and knife.

Jon Roche says he feels lucky to be alive after being set upon by armed thugs
who repeatedly hit him in the head after he caught them trying to break into
Maypole Community Club, in Warrington Road, Abram.

The club, formerly Abram Labour Club, is owned by the 40-year-old and his wife
Sarah and after hearing the alarm going off in the early hours of June 5 the
pair, along with son Jack, 18, and another family friend went to see what was
going on.

They discovered that the back door had been jammed open but there were no signs
of a burglary, so they secured the building and headed back to their house,
which overlooks the club.

But just 10 minutes later Jack saw some men heading towards the building at
about 2.30am.

Jon said: "Perhaps it was stupid but we went outside to see what they were up to
and after a brief conversation with them the next thing I knew one of them was
heading towards me with something hidden behind his back.

"I shouted to the others to get back inside quickly but before I knew it one of
them was on me with a hammer and he started hitting my in the head.

"These people are absolute animals and need to be caught.

"I feel lucky to be alive, but worry that the next time they strike the victims
might not be so lucky."

Despite numerous blows to the head and body Jon managed get to his knees and
began wrestling with the man to get the weapon from him, but soon another man
came over with a knife.

He said: "I just kept feeling the hammer hitting me all over my body.

"My 14-year-old daughter was in the house with my niece and Jack's girlfriend so
I was screaming to them to phone the police."

Regardless of the obvious danger, Sarah, 37, put her own safety aside and ran
over to her husband throwing her body on top of him.

She started kicking her legs out to defend them both and eventually they managed
to get up and run away back to the house at which point the men ran off.

The family are convinced their attackers are local because they ran away into
the nearby estate rather than along the road.

The ordeal has left the entire family shaken up and Sarah is too terrified to go
back to the club on her own.

Jon added: "We are honest people and this has left my whole family traumatised
but I am determined not to let these men defeat me."

He added: "I would appeal to anybody who knows anything to come forward and get
in touch with the police because without their information these people are free
to carry on terrorising innocent people."

Jon has been left with three deep gashes on his head as well as multiple other
cuts and bruises, Sarah is also covered in bruises and the family friend, who is
only 18, has a deep cut to his hand, likely to be from being caught with the
knife in the struggle.

Police are appealing for anybody with information to call 0161 856 5307 or
Crimestoppers anonymously on 0800 555 111.

LOAD-DATE: June 16, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: WWIG


                       Copyright 2012 Johnston Press Plc
                              All Rights Reserved

                              379 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                              The Sentinel (Stoke)

                             June 9, 2012 Saturday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

Joining the hunt to test 7/7 terror attacks theories;
TV 'roadtrip' will investigate bomb blast conspiracy ideas

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 555 words


A new TV documentary will investigate conspiracies surrounding the 7/7 bomb
attacks in London, Tom Mullen spoke to a writer who took part in filming
CONSPIRACY theories surrounding the 2005 London bombings are to be examined in a
new documentary filmed with the help of a Staffordshire writer. Layla
Randle-Conde, from Stone, recently returned from producing Conspiracy Roadtrip,
a BBC documentary due to be broadcast this autumn. Layla, who writes for
paranormal and alternative magazines, was approached by researchers for the
programme, which aims to test bizarre conspiracy theories connected to the
bombings on July 7, which killed 52 people.

The filming took the 32-year-old all over the country, visiting mosques,
academics and people who survived.

Layla even retraced the steps of one of the suicide bombers, met an expert in
homemade explosives, and watched as experts blew-up a real London bus in a
demonstration of just how deadly the attacks were.

The writer, who also works as a model and fortune teller, said: "The whole thing
was one of the most interesting experiences of my life, but it was also very
chilling.

"Seeing the bus explode was unbelieveable, and very upsetting. "One of the more
common conspiracy theories comes from people who believe the bombers couldn't
have created the carnage they did by using homemade explosives.

"They say the Government did it, and gave the bombers military-grade explosives.
"So we went to Bristol to speak to a real explosives expert, and then watched as
the bus was destroyed. "Our faces are a picture, and you can see how far away we
had to stand to make sure we weren't hit by any shrapnel." Filming for the
programme also took Layla and the crew to the suburbs of Burley and Hyde Park,
in Leeds, which were home to the suicide bombers.

The show, which will be presented by Irish comedian Andrew Maxwell, sees
religious leaders interviewed and debates between conspiracy theorists and those
who believe the theories are false.

Layla said: "There were two conspiracy theorists and I got on with one of them
really well, but I really clashed with the other one.

"I think he found it quite difficult coming face to face with real-life victims
of the attack and having the chance to speak to them.

"It's a world away from posting things on the internet or contributing to
forums.

"We spoke to various experts and public figures, including intelligence expert
Crispin Black, a ballistics expert, a bomb survivor, a psychologist, the
neighbour of a bomber and the father of a victim.

She added: "I retraced and re -enacted the final 90 minutes of Hasib Hussain,
the bus bomber. That was upsetting and eerie.

"Finally, I had lots of arguments with my fellow travellers about whether the
theories were true.

"I believe they are false, but the two diehard conspiracy theorists aboard the
bus did not agree."

The show recalls the horrific events of July 7, 2005, when four British
terrorists, of Pakistani origin, detonated three bombs in quick succession on
London Underground trains across the city.

Later, a fourth bomb exploded on a bus in Tavistock Square, London.

Fifty-two people, as well as the four bombers, were killed in the attacks and
more than 700 were injured.

Conspiracy Roadtrip is scheduled to be broadcast on BBC3 in October.

What do you think? Email us at letters@thesentinel.co.uk

LOAD-DATE: June 9, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: TESTS: A BBC photograph of a test explosion carried out for the
programme. Above, how The Sentinel reported the atrocities. Main picture, Layla
Randle-Conde.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: SEN


                      Copyright 2012 The Sentinel (Stoke)
                              All Rights Reserved

                              380 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                       BBC Monitoring Europe - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                              June 10, 2012 Sunday

Turkey condemns terror attacks in Pakistan

LENGTH: 91 words


Text of report in English by Turkish semi-official news agency Anatolia

ANKARA (AA) -June 8, 2012 -Turkish Foreign Ministry on Friday issued a statement
condemning terror attacks in Pakistan's Peshawar and Quetta cities.

The statement said Turkey was deeply saddened by the attacks which killed more
than 30 people and wounded many more.

The statement also said Turkey sent its condolences to families of the victims
and underlined Turkey's solidarity with Pakistan against terrorism.

Source: Anatolia news agency, Ankara, in English 1955 gmt 8 Jun 12

LOAD-DATE: June 10, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2012 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              381 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                           The Sunday Times (London)

                              June 10, 2012 Sunday
                                   Edition 1;
                                    Ireland

Al-Qaeda chief hit by 1,000mph bull's-eye;
Contrary to the reports, the US drone attack that killed the terrorists' No 2
was startlingly accurate in locating its target

BYLINE: Christina Lamb ; Nicola Smith

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 1134 words


THE American drone strike that killed Al-Qaeda's deputy leader last week struck
with such precision that only two rooms in the house where he was hiding were
destroyed.

Tribesmen in Mir Ali, a town in the lawless tribal areas of North Waziristan,
said Abu Yahya al-Libi had been asleep in a house in the nearby village of Hassu
Khel when the strike came early on Monday morning. The 5ft Hellfire missile,
travelling at 1,000mph, hit its target with such accuracy that only two inner
rooms within the sprawling mudwalled compound were destroyed, contrary to other
reports that said the house was vapourised. A woman was injured and treated in
hospital.

There have been eight drone attacks in Waziristan in the past fortnight,
suggesting the US was closing in on a significant Al-Qaeda figure, and also was
losing patience with Pakistan, which continues to allow safe havens for
militants.

The house where Abu Yahya al-Libi, 49, died was owned by a member of the Dawar
tribe, which has provided shelter for a number of foreign militants.

When locals rushed to the scene it had been cordoned off by masked militants who
allowed nobody to approach the property.

American officials later confirmed Abu Yahya al-Libi had been killed but refused
to give details on how they established this given that his burial site was kept
secret.

The militants refused to identify the victim, but intelligence later intercepted
a walkietalkie conversation about the attack, mentioning the word "sheikh", a
term frequently used for Arabs such as Abu Yahya al-Libi.

A senior Pakistani official cast doubt on whether the dead man was the Al-Qaeda
No 2, pointing out that the price on Abu Yahya al-Libi's head was only $1m,
putting him way down the US wanted list. "This is just an excuse to step up the
drone campaign," he said.

The Libyan had been a key operational commander, recruiter and strategist for
Al-Qaeda since he escaped from Bagram prison in Afghanistan in 2005 after three
years in US custody. "There is no clear successor to take on the breadth of his
responsibility, and that puts additional pressure [on Al-Qaeda]," said the White
House spokesman Jay Carney, "bringing it closer to its ultimate demise than
ever."

Since the killing of Osama Bin Laden in May last year, US drones have
eviscerated the group's leadership, killing Ilyas Kashmiri last June, Atiyah Abd
al-Rahman in August and Badar Mansoor in February.

Across the stream from the house where Abu Yahya al-Libi met his fate is another
building where he escaped an attack earlier this year. Several farm animals were
killed but there were no human casualties.

He was in a basement when a drone hit a previous hiding place in a village close
to Miranshah, the main town of North Waziristan.

On that occasion his bodyguard was killed.

The accuracy of last week's raid may have been helped by documents captured from
Bin Laden's house in Abbottabad as well as the detail with which cameras on
drones can view terrain "down to the last goat".

CIA sources say "there is no substitute for humint [human intelligence]", adding
that the agency has a growing network of informants in the region.

"The CIA has thousands of informants in northwest Pakistan," said Joshua Foust,
a fellow at the American Security Project think tank. "One of them could have
found him. They also collect every stray transmission from the area: internet,
radio, phone etc."

Abu Yahya al-Libi's death suggests America may be closing in on Ayman
al-Zawahiri, the Egyptian eye doctor who succeeded Bin Laden as leader. The
Al-Qaeda No 2 will not be easy to replace. He was an operational commander and a
renowned recruiter, a propagandist and a poet who brought together the group's
Libyan and Egyptian wings. Like Bin Laden his primary goal was to spread global
jihad and perpetrate mass murder in the US and among its allies.

"The No 2 in Al-Qaeda is effectively its managing director, acting under the
chairmanship of al-Zawahiri," said MJ Gohel, director of the Asia-Pacific
Foundation, which monitors terrorism. "He is responsible for recruiting and
training individuals, in charge of planning and facilitating terrorist
operations against the West and its allies, and indoctrination and propaganda."
Among those who may take over are Adnan Gulshair el Shukrijumah, born in Saudi
Arabia; Khalid al-Habib, thought to be of either Egyptian or Moroccan origin;
Saif al-Adel, an Egyptian; Matiur Rehman, a Pakistani, and Bin Laden's son Saad.
All are believed to be in Pakistan.

With few of the old guard left, the most senior American in Al-Qaeda is expected
to assume a more prominent role.

Known as Azzam al Amriki (Azzam the American), Adam Gadahn is an unlikely
jihadist.

He grew up on a farm in California, the grandson of a Jewish doctor, and as a
teenager he was obsessed with heavy metal groups, reviewing bands for
alternative magazines.

The 33-year-old, who has a $1m ($799,999) price on his head, is thought to be on
the run in North Waziristan. He converted to Islam and joined Al-Qaeda 15 years
ago, making him one of its few leaders to have been in place since before the
9/11 attacks. Gadahn was regarded as Bin Laden's spin doctor, making slick
propaganda videos. He posted a 48-minute video on militant websites appealing to
Muslim immigrants in what he called the "miserable suburbs" of Paris, London and
Detroit.

Last year, he posted another entitled Do Not Rely on Others, Take the Task Upon
Yourself, showing him speaking between clips of al-Zawahiri and Bin Laden.
Calling on Muslims to obtain weapons from gun shows and carry out random
attacks, he said: "America is absolutely awash with easily obtainable firearms."

But even as a propagandist, he was eclipsed by betterknown figures such as Anwar
al-Awlaki, the American-born Yemeni who inspired a number of home-grown attacks
and was killed in an American drone attack last September.

However, letters released from documents taken from Bin Laden's compound
included a letter from Gadahn on plans to mark the 10th anniversary of 9/11. It
included a critique of the organisation. "Bin Laden took his mail," said one US
official. "That says something about Gadahn."

Additional reporting: Saleem Mehsud Gadahn: American jihadist Death from above
MQ-1 In the hunt for Abu Yahya al-Libi America launches eight drone attacks in
the past fortnight in North Waziristan 55ft Kabul Islamabad AFGHANISTAN Mir Ali
PAKISTAN 100 miles Hassu Khel 1 Predator drone fires Hellfire missile at target
in compound from three miles away 2 Missile strikes two inner rooms, killing
sleeping Abu Yahya al-Libi and injuring a woman 3 Masked bodyguards immediately
cordon off compound and keep locals at bay 4 Intelligence intercepts of
walkie-talkie traffic identify victim as Abu Yahya al-Libi, right

'' ONE OF THOUSANDS OF CIA INFORMANTS COULD HAVE FOUND HIM

LOAD-DATE: June 10, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Gadahn: American jihadist

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: STS


                    Copyright 2012 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              382 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                           The Sunday Times (London)

                              June 10, 2012 Sunday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

Al-Qaeda chief hit by 1,000mph bull's-eye;
Contrary to reports, the US drone attack that killed the terrorists' No 2 was
startlingly accurate

BYLINE: Christina Lamb ; Nicola Smith; Saleem Mehsud

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 23

LENGTH: 1202 words


THE American drone strike that killed Al-Qaeda's deputy leader last week struck
with such precision that only two rooms in the house where he was hiding were
destroyed.

Tribesmen in Mir Ali, a town in the lawless tribal areas of North Waziristan,
said Abu Yahya al-Libi had been asleep in a house in the nearby village of Hassu
Khel when the strike came early on Monday morning.

The 5ft Hellfire missile, travelling at 1,000mph, hit its target with such
accuracy that only two inner rooms within the sprawling mud-walled compound were
destroyed, contrary to other reports that said the house was vapourised. A woman
was injured and treated in hospital.

There have been eight drone attacks in Waziristan in the past fortnight,
suggesting the US was closing in on a significant Al-Qaeda figure, and also was
losing patience with Pakistan, which continues to allow safe havens for
militants.

The house where Abu Yahya al-Libi, 49, died was owned by a member of the Dawar
tribe, which has provided shelter for a number of foreign militants.

When locals rushed to the scene it had been cordoned off by masked militants who
allowed nobody to approach the property.

American officials later confirmed Abu Yahya al-Libi had been killed but refused
to give details on how they established this given that his burial site was kept
secret.

The militants refused to identify the victim, but intelligence later intercepted
a walkietalkie conversation about the attack, mentioning the word "sheikh", a
term frequently used for Arabs such as Abu Yahya al-Libi.

A senior Pakistani official cast doubt on whether the dead man was the Al-Qaeda
No 2, pointing out that the price on Abu Yahya al-Libi's head was only $1m,
putting him way down the US wanted list. "This is just an excuse to step up the
drone campaign," he said.

The Libyan had been a key operational commander, recruiter and strategist for
Al-Qaeda since he escaped from Bagram prison in Afghanistan in 2005 after three
years in US custody.

"There is no clear successor to take on the breadth of his responsibility, and
that puts additional pressure [on Al-Qaeda]," said the White House spokesman Jay
Carney, "bringing it closer to its ultimate demise than ever."

Since the killing of Osama Bin Laden in May last year, US drones have
eviscerated the group's leadership, killing Ilyas Kashmiri last June, Atiyah Abd
al-Rahman in August and Badar Mansoor in February.

Across the stream from the house where Abu Yahya al-Libi met his fate is another
building where he escaped an attack earlier this year. Several farm animals were
killed but there were no human casualties.

He was in a basement when a drone hit a previous hiding place in a village close
to Miranshah, the main town of North Waziristan. On that occasion his bodyguard
was killed.

The accuracy of last week's raid may have been helped by documents captured from
Bin Laden's house in Abbottabad as well as the detail with which cameras on
drones can view terrain "down to the last goat".

CIA sources say "there is no substitute for humint [human intelligence]", adding
that the agency has a growing network of informants in the region.

"The CIA has thousands of informants in northwest Pakistan," said Joshua Foust,
a fellow at the American Security Project think tank. "One of them could have
found him. They also collect every stray transmission from the area: internet,
radio, phone etc."

Abu Yahya al-Libi's death suggests America may be closing in on Ayman
al-Zawahiri, the Egyptian eye doctor who succeeded Bin Laden as leader.

The Al-Qaeda No 2 will not be easy to replace. He was an operational commander
and a renowned recruiter, a propagandist and a poet who brought together the
group's Libyan and Egyptian wings. Like Bin Laden his primary goal was to spread
global jihad and perpetrate mass murder in the US and among its allies.

"The No 2 in Al-Qaeda is effectively its managing director, acting under the
chairmanship of al-Zawahiri," said MJ Gohel, director of the Asia-Pacific
Foundation, which monitors terrorism. "He is responsible for recruiting and
training individuals, in charge of planning and facilitating terrorist
operations against the West and its allies, and indoctrination and propaganda."

Among those who may take over are Adnan Gulshair el Shukrijumah, born in Saudi
Arabia; Khalid al-Habib, thought to be of either Egyptian or Moroccan origin;
Saif al-Adel, an Egyptian; Matiur Rehman, a Pakistani, and Bin Laden's son Saad.
All are believed to be in Pakistan.

With few of the old guard left, the most senior American in Al-Qaeda is expected
to assume a more prominent role. Known as Azzam al Amriki (Azzam the American),
Adam Gadahn is an unlikely jihadist.

He grew up on a farm in California, the grandson of a Jewish doctor, and as a
teenager was obsessed with heavy metal groups, reviewing bands for alternative
magazines.

The 33-year-old, who has a $1m price on his head, is thought to be on the run in
North Waziristan. He converted to Islam and joined Al-Qaeda 15 years ago, making
him one of its few leaders to have been in place since before the 9/11 attacks.

Gadahn was regarded as Bin Laden's spin doctor, making slick propaganda videos.
He posted a 48-minute video on militant websites appealing to Muslim immigrants
in what he called the "miserable suburbs" of Paris, London and Detroit.

Last year he posted another entitled Do Not Rely on Others, Take the Task Upon
Yourself, showing him speaking between clips of al-Zawahiri and Bin Laden.
Calling on Muslims to obtain weapons from gun shows and carry out random
attacks, he said: "America is absolutely awash with easily obtainable firearms."

But even as a propagandist, he was eclipsed by betterknown figures such as Anwar
al-Awlaki, the American-born Yemeni who inspired a number of home-grown attacks
and was killed in an American drone attack last September.

However, letters recently released from the trove of documents taken from Bin
Laden's compound surprised analysts by suggesting Gadahn was more than a media
adviser.

They included a letter from him on plans to mark the 10th anniversary of 9/11.
It included a critique of the organisation and its affiliated groups.

"I was very impressed by his Arabic, just two mistakes, and he's giving
political advice as well as media advice," said Nelly Lahoud of the Combating
Terrorism Centre at West Point military academy. "That he could give ideological
criticisms of decisions made by the leadership suggests he has a more
substantive role than previously realised."

"Bin Laden took his mail," said one US official. "That says something about
Gadahn."

Additional reporting: Saleem Mehsud.

The unstable ally America dare not abandon, News Review, pages 2-3

Death from above

In the hunt for Abu Yahya al-Libi America launches eight drone attacks in the
past fortnight in North Waziristan

1 Predator drone fires Hellfire missile at target in compound from three miles
away

2 Missile strikes two inner rooms, killing sleeping Abu Yahya al-Libi and
injuring a woman

3 Masked bodyguards immediately cordon off compound and keep locals at bay

4 Intelligence intercepts of walkie-talkie traffic identify victim as Abu Yahya
al-Libi, right

'' ONE OF THOUSANDS OF CIA INFORMANTS COULD HAVE FOUND HIM

LOAD-DATE: June 10, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Gadahn: American jihadist

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: STS


                    Copyright 2012 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              383 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                               The Sun (England)

                              June 10, 2012 Sunday
                                   Edition 1;
                                    Ireland

Terrorist attacker kills four

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 26

LENGTH: 116 words


A TALIBAN suicide bomber killed four French soldiers yesterday.

The terrorist was wearing a burqa when he approached the troops, who were on
foot, and detonated explosives hidden inside his clothes. The dead men were part
of the International Security Assistance Force and were patrolling the Nijrab
district of eastern Afghanistan.

At least another five were injured in the blast.

President Francois Hollande said: "It is with great emotion that I share the
grief of the families."

The Taliban claimed responsibility for the atrocity in an email message gloating
that a suicide attacker had struck foreign soldiers.

France has said it plans to withdraw most of its 3,400 troops by the end of this
year.

LOAD-DATE: June 10, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: SUN


                    Copyright 2012 NEWS GROUP NEWSPAPERS LTD
                              All Rights Reserved

                              384 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring South Asia - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                              June 11, 2012 Monday

One soldier among 10 killed in northwest Pakistan terror attack

LENGTH: 160 words


Text of report published by Pakistani newspaper Daily Times website at 0325gmt
on 11 June

Waziristan: At least 10 people, including one security official, were killed,
and 10 others were injured when terrorists fired rockets at a security checkpost
in South Waziristan on Sunday [10 June].

According to media reports, unidentified terrorists fired eight rockets on the
security forces' checkpost in Wana at midnight due to which a security officers
was killed and three others were injured. The series of rock firing continued
until morning.

The security forces started an operation against terrorists in Wana Bazaar after
blocking all the roads leading towards the area on Sunday morning in which nine
people were killed and seven injured. However, it was not known if any civilian
was killed.

The patrolling of army and scouts was going on in the area. A government servant
confirmed the death of two women.

Source: Daily Times website, Lahore, in English 11 Jun 12

LOAD-DATE: June 11, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2012 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              385 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                               Leicester Mercury

                              June 11, 2012 Monday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

TERROR OF CAR-JACKED MUM-TO-BE;
ORDEAL: ATTACKER THREATENED TO KILL LAUREN, 23

BYLINE: ADRIAN TROUGHTON

SECTION: NEWS; FRONT PAGE; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 208 words


A heavily-pregnant woman has told how she feared for her life when she was
car-jacked as she stopped to post a letter.

Lauren Gilbert, 23, said one of the two robbers threatened to kill her as they
stole her car after she stopped in West End, Leicester, at 5.15pm on Thursday.

Miss Gilbert, who is six months pregnant, said: "I was absolutely terrified. One
of the men looked me in the eye and said, 'If you don't just leave it I will
kill you'.

"I was scared stiff. I was worried he had a knife or a gun because he looked
like he meant it."

Miss Gilbert, who lives in Enderby, said she was heading home in her £7,000 blue
Ford Focus ST after leaving work at 5pm when she was targeted.

"I was driving home along my normal route and stopped to post a letter for
work," she said.

"I had used the same post box - near the corner of Barclay Street and Braunstone
Avenue - lots of times before.

"I stopped my car and left the engine running, and had just got out and shut the
door when a silver Mercedes estate pulled up alongside me.

"A man jumped out of the back passenger seat and pushed me. I stumbled backwards
as he jumped into the driving seat of my car. "I was stunned but I got up and
opened my car door - it was my car and there was no TURN TO CAR-JACK P2

LOAD-DATE: June 11, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: LEM


                        Copyright 2012 Leicester Mercury
                              All Rights Reserved

                              386 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                  Wigan Today

                              June 11, 2012 Monday

Couple in car attack terror

LENGTH: 634  words


A WIGAN couple suffered an horrific attack in their car by a man who had stormed
out of his home after trashing it in a domestic row.

While John Dunkerley and his long term partner were having a row their dog
escaped and after she went to look for it he followed in his Volvo. As he drove
along nearby Bellgreen Lane, Higher Ince, a couple driving the other way saw him
swerving from side to side at speed.

Liverpool Crown Court heard that the couple, Robert and Janet Markland saw the
missing dog and took the view that Dunkerley was trying to run it over. As their
two vehicles met their wing mirrors collided and were damaged but as Dunkerley
drove off the couple also continued on their way.

However, Mr Markland then saw that the Volvo had turned round and it caught up
and overtook their Fiat. Meanwhile Dunkerley's partner, Belinda O'Malley had
caught the dog, said Karen Brooks, prosecuting.

"The Volvo swerved in front which caused Mr Markland to brake sharply. The
defendant jumped out and his attitude was aggressive and he was wild eyed and
said you've just run my dog over' and punched the driver's window.

"He broke the window and also started to punch Mr Markland through the window
three times. Mrs Markland got out to let her husband get across as he could not
get out on his side. As she got out the defendant moved towards  her and she
held up her walking stick horizontally to protect herself," said Mrs Brooks.

"He grabbed it and tried to pull it from her as he went to hit her she cowered
down shouting Bob' in terror and felt a blow to the top of her head and a punch
to her left cheek. Mr Markland came to his wife's assistance and there was a
clash of heads between the defendant and Mr Markland as both had hold of the
walking stick.

"Mr Markland managed to take hold of it and hit him with it to ward him off. The
defendant got into the Volvo and drove off at speed."

A police vehicle which was going to the original incident stopped at the scene
and spoke to the couple. Mr Markland's expensive spectacles were damaged in the
incident and he suffered a cut under his right eye and his wife had a red mark
and swelling to his left cheek and red mark to the top of her head. They were
both very shaken by the incident, said Mrs Brooks.

She told the court that 52-year-old Dunkerley has already been dealt with for
damaging a window at his home in the initial incident that day, July 28 last
year.

Dunkerley, of Ennerdale Place, Ince, pleaded guilty to dangerous and
disqualified driving, two offences of common assault, criminal damage and
driving without insurance and failing to stop after an accident.

The court heard that he has numerous previous convictions many for motoring,
including six for disqualified driving.

Sentencing him Judge Stephen Clarke said, "Your behaviour on that day was
extraordinary. The damage you caused to your own home must have run into
hundreds and hundreds of pounds.

"When you drove you knew you were in trouble because you had not passed an
extended driving test. You drove in a bizarre way and used violence towards a
couple who must have been shocked and traumatised."

The judge said that although he has previous convictions he has shown the
ability to keep out of trouble for long periods of time. He sentenced him to 12
months imprisonment suspended for two years and ordered him to attend a New
Direction activity requirement. He also disqualified him from driving for three
years.

Raquel Simpson, defending, said that Dunkerley, who takes medication for
diabetes, is now working as a car workshop foreman.

At the time he was under considerable pressure from the Inland Revenue who were
trying to make his motor vehicle business bankrupt. "He apologises to the couple
and his partner for acting in an aggressive and uncontrollable behaviour," she
said.

LOAD-DATE: June 16, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: WWIG


                       Copyright 2012 Johnston Press Plc
                              All Rights Reserved

                              387 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring Middle East - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                             June 12, 2012 Tuesday

"Terrorist" attack on Syrian TV to stop media from telling truths - ministry

LENGTH: 185 words


Text of report in English by state-run Syrian news agency SANA website

[Information Ministry: Terrorist Attack against al-Ikhbariyah [al-Suriyah]
Channel in al-Haffeh Aimed at Stopping National Media from Conveying Facts to
Public Opinion]

Damascus, 12 June (SANA) - The Ministry of Information stressed on Tuesday [12
June] that the terrorist attack against Al-Ikhbariyah [al-Suriyah] channel by
armed terrorist groups is an attempt to stop national media from conveying the
truth of events to the public opinion.

The ministry added in a statement that the Syrian TV channels which are relating
the reality of terrorism targeting the Syrian people with all its spectrums and
components have become the target of terrorists on the ground.

The ministry expressed best wishes for Al-Ikhbariyah channel's cameraman and
reporter in Lattakia to recover quickly, stressing that the bullets of terrorism
will only boost the determination of journalists to carry out their mission
which is conveying the facts objectively and responsibly to the public opinion.

Source: SANA news agency website, Damascus in English 12 Jun 12

LOAD-DATE: June 12, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2012 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              388 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                   Metro (UK)

                            June 13, 2012 Wednesday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

Glazing advert banned for creating terror attack fear

BYLINE: AIDAN RADNEDGE

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 35

LENGTH: 256 words


A GLAZING company's leaflet that warned of the possibility of a terrorist bomb
attack during the Olympics has been banned by the advertising watchdog.

Northgate Solar Controls' advert for bomb blast film - which claimed a 'very
real threat' surrounded the Games - was pulled by the Advertising Standards
Authority for causing undue fear and distress.

The flyer, sent to 4,400 businesses in London and the home counties, featured an
image of the July 7 bus bombing in Tavistock Square, which the ASA found 'wholly
inappropriate and shocking'.

The leaflet said businesses had been visited by police and warned of 'the
current highest level security alert' for the Games. 'Infiltration by suicide
bombers etc, in conjunction with undetected terrorist sleeper cells already in
the country, pose a very real threat,' it added.

The company claimed businesses were being advised to install tough clear
security film 'as a deterrent to lethal flying shards of glass'.

One person complained the leaflet, sent out in February, was offensive.

The company told the ASA it did not intend to cause fear or alarm but was trying
to help minimise the risks in the event of an explosion by the application of
bomb-blast film.

It had been told by a customer in north London that police had advised their
business to fit the film before the Olympics because of the increased risk of
terrorism.

The Met told the ASA it gave protective and counter-terrorism security advice to
businesses but this was not specifically linked to the Olympics and was limited
to London.

LOAD-DATE: June 13, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Offensive: The image on the leaflet's cover

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: MTR


                   Copyright 2012 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              389 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                      June 13, 2012 Wednesday 4:57 PM GMT

Iraq hit by wave of terror attacks against Shia;
More than 70 people were killed yesterday as suspected Sunni insurgents bent on
dragging Iraq into renewed sectarian turmoil unleashed a wave of terror attacks
against Shia pilgrims.

BYLINE: By Adrian Blomfield Middle East Correspondent

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 364 words


Iraqi authorities reported 22 separate car bombings in Baghdad and seven other
cities, exposing the fragility of the country's religious fault lines nine years
after the fall of Saddam Hussein.

The attacks, the second deadliest since the withdrawal of American troops last
December, came as the Shia faithful gathered to commemorate the festival of
Moussa al-Khadim, a great-grandson of the Prophet Mohammed and one of their most
revered Imams.

The insurgents launched their attacks with apparent ease, despite heightened
security, striking as early as 5am with a bomb that struck a procession in the
town of Taji, north of Baghdad, killing seven people.

But it was the capital city, as so often before, that bore the brunt of the
violence, suffering ten bombings that killed at least 21 people.

One struck a Shia mosque, while a second was detonated by a refreshment tent in
the Khadimiya mosque as pilgrims stopped for breakfast in the baking heat.

"A group of pilgrims were walking and passed by a tent offering food and drinks
when a car exploded near them," Wathiq Muhana, a policeman, was quoted as
saying.

"People were running away covered with blood and bodies were scattered on the
ground."

Two simultaneous attacks near a restaurant in the Shia city of Hilla, one
carried out by a suicide bomber, killed 20 more. Many of the dead were police
recruits travelling in a minibus ripped apart by the blast.

The attacks provided a grim reprise of the inter-communal violence that erupted
in Iraq in 2006-7 when Shia pilgrims marking religious festivals were frequently
targeted.

Reduced in number, and enjoying significantly less popular support now that US
troops are no longer in the country, the insurgents are thought to lack the
capability of returning the country to that bloody period, which claimed tens of
thousands of lives.

Even so, they remain a threat. Wednesday's attacks brought this year's death
toll from mass bombings to more than 420, with the vast majority of the dead
coming from the Shia majority.

With many Sunni Arabs complaining of growing marginalisation at the hands of
Iraq's Shia prime minister, Nouri al-Maliki, some observers fear that the
violence could worsen.

LOAD-DATE: June 14, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTNS


                  Copyright 2012 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              390 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                               Belfast Telegraph

                             June 14, 2012 Thursday
                                   Edition 1;

Judge's appeal on drug accused;
RAAD terror attacks feared

BYLINE: GEORGE JACKSON

SECTION: FEATURES; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 64 words


A JUDGE has made an unprecedented appeal to the media not to disclose the
addresses of two men accused of drugs offences to protect them from vigilante
gunmen.

Londonderry District Judge Barney McElholm''s comments are believed to relate to
attacks carried out by Republican Action Against Drugs.

RAAD have shot 40 people, including the murder of one man in Co Donegal.

FULL STORY, PAGE 7

LOAD-DATE: June 14, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: BTT


                Copyright 2012 Belfast Telegraph Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              391 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                            Lancashire Evening Post

                              June 15, 2012 Friday

Terror of shopkeeper attacked in cash raid

LENGTH: 330  words


A shopkeeper today told of the moment he was brutally assaulted by a man
threatening to pull a gun.

James Campbell, 39, who runs the Campbells Fruit and Veg shop, in Blackpool
Road, Lane Ends, Preston, said he had been left a "nervous wreck" following the
attack.

He was left pouring with blood following the assault, but bravely ignored the
thug's demands for cash and sprinted from his shop into a nearby business.

He was on the phone at the back of his shop when he heard the man come in.

He said: "I thought it was just a customer saying they were ready to be served.

"I turned around and he just punched me right in the face.

"Even though he was right in front of me, my brain just blocked out what
happened and what he looked like.

"It was a shock. There was a lot of foul language and he was saying, I want the
money'.

"I don't know how I managed to do it, I just found some inner strength and told
him the only money I had was in the till.

"I thought if I can get to the till I can get out of the shop."

During the attack, police said the offender also threatened Mr Campbell, telling
him he had a "laser gun", although no weapon was produced.

The victim needed two hours hospital treatment and has been left with bruises
and a large cut on his lip.

He said: "I'm a nervous wreck to be honest.

"I have got friends who have been doing shifts, coming in to make sure I'm not
left on my own for too long."

Today, police were appealing for any witnesses to the offence to come forward.

Det Sgt John Crichton, of Preston CID, said: "He has been left quite shaken up.

"It has been a frightening experience for the man and it seems the motive at
this time was that this person was desperate for money.

"He is a dangerous person and the public should not approach him."

The incident happened at around 2pm on Saturday, June 9. The offender was white,
aged 25-30, around 5ft 10in. He had a medium build and short, fair hair.

He is believed to have run off in the Woodplumpton Lane/Belmont Avenue area.

LOAD-DATE: June 16, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: WLEP


                       Copyright 2012 Johnston Press Plc
                              All Rights Reserved

                              392 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring Middle East - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                             June 16, 2012 Saturday

Syrian state agency reports on "terrorist" attacks, casualties

LENGTH: 1067 words


Text of report in English by state-run Syrian news agency SANA website

["Civilians Martyred in Busra al-Sham, Others Injured in Damascus and Aleppo,
Authorities Raid Terrori..." - SANA Headline]

Governorates, (SANA) - An armed terrorist group detonated two explosive devices
outside Khalid Bin al-Walid Mosque in Busra al-Sham in Dar'a countryside.

SANA correspondent quoted a source in the governorate as saying that a number of
citizens were martyred and several others injured in the blast.

The competent authorities arrested on Thursday [14 June] terrorist Muhammad
Hussam al-Sadaki, from Al-Qa'idah-Jabhat al-Nasra-who was planning to blow
himself up inside al-Rifai Mosque in Damascus during Friday prayers.

11 Civilians Injured in Explosive Device Blasts in Damascus and Aleppo

Nine civilians and members of the military engineering units were injured on
Friday [15 June] in the blast of an improvised explosive device planted by an
armed terrorist group in Al-Qa'a region behind Al-Majid Mosque in Al-Midan
neighbourhood in Damascus.

A source in the province told SANA reporter that the military engineering units
dismantled two explosive devices planted in electrical inspection cases in the
same region when a third one exploded while they were trying to dismantle it,
causing the injury of nine civilians and military members, three of whom are in
critical condition.

The source said that the weight of each device was estimated at 7 kg.

In Aleppo, two civilians were injured in a blast of an explosive device planted
by an armed terrorist group near Dar al-Shifaa in al-Shaar neighbourhood in
Aleppo.

SANA reporter said that the explosive device was planted in a waste container.

Also, six civilians and three law-enforcement members were injured when an
explosive device, planted by an armed terrorist group near Saad Bin Abi Wakkas
Mosque in Salaheddin neighbourhood in Aleppo, went off, causing material damage.

Five Law-Enforcement Personnel Injured in Explosive Device Blast in Hama

Five members of law-enforcement forces, one of them a First Lieutenant, were
injured when an explosive device was detonated near al-Jawwash roundabout in
Hama.

A source in the province told SANA's correspondent that terrorists detonated an
explosive device remotely while a law-enforcement patrol was passing near the
roundabout, injuring First Lieutenant Wissam Issa along with officers Mohammad
Riyad, Mohammad Bakri, Hasan Mofleh, and Bassel Kjafaja.

The injured men were rushed to Hama National Hospital.

Factory for Manufacturing Explosive Devices and Handmade Rockets Discovered in
Aleppo

The authorities discovered a factory for manufacturing explosive devices and
hand-made rockets on a farm that terrorists used as a hideout in Tal Jbein north
of Aleppo.

SANA correspondent quoted a source in the governorate as saying that chemical
materials used for manufacturing explosives and rockets and a big quantity of
explosive devices were seized. Books teaching the salafi doctrine and CDs,
cameras, night vision binoculars and hand-made rockets were also seized.

Terrorists Attack Oil Pipeline in Dayr al-Zawr

Terrorists attacked an oil pipeline near Abu Hamam area in Dayr al-Zawr province
on Friday evening using an explosive device, causing a fire to break.

An official source at the Petroleum Ministry told SANA that the targeted
pipeline is 12 inches in diameter and transports crude oil from al-Tanak field
to T2 station, adding that pumping operations were suspended upon the explosion
and that teams will begin work to repair the pipeline and restore pumping
operations within a few days.

Authorities Raid Terrorist Hideout in Al-Qusayr, Kill a Number of Terrorists

The authorities raided a terrorist hideout in Al-Qusayr town in Homs
countryside, killing a number of terrorists and injuring several others.

A source in the governorate said that the authorities destroyed two pickup
trucks that the terrorists used in attacking civilians and law-enforcement
members and confiscated assorted weapons.

Earlier on Thursday evening, authorities in Tel Kalakh area confiscated weapons
that were transported in a Kia car that was heading Al-Husn village from
Lebanon. Confiscated weapons include RPG launchers and rounds and AK-47 with
magazines and ammo.

Security Personnel at Al-Jafra Oil Field Repel Terrorist Attack

The personnel in charge of the security of Al-Jafra oil field in Dayr al-Zawr
managed to repel an attack by an armed terrorist group on Friday.

A source in the province told SANA's correspondent that the incident resulted in
the killing or injuring of the majority of terrorist, and that five terrorists
were arrested and their weapons were confiscated.

Authorities Raid Terrorist Hideouts in Duma

Based on information provided by locals and investigations, the authorities
raided a number of terrorist hideouts in Duma and its outskirts.

An official source at the province told SANA's correspondent that the operations
resulted in the death of three terrorists, with a large number of terrorist
being injured and others arrested.

The source added that the authorities also arrested a terrorist while purchasing
ammunition.

Authorities Clash with Terrorist Group that Attacked Law-Enforcement Checkpoint
in Dar'a's Eastern Countryside

The authorities clashed with an armed terrorist group that attacked a
law-enforcement checkpoint in Dar'a's eastern countryside, resulting in the
deaths of three terrorists and the injuring of others.

The authorities confiscated the terrorists' weapons along with eight explosive
devices rigged for detonation which were concealed in a stolen car the
terrorists had been using.

Authorities Confiscate Weapons in Al-Hafah, Lattakia

The authorities confiscated weapons in Al-Hafah area in Lattakia countryside
which had been used by terrorists in their attacks on civilians, law-enforcement
forces and public and private facilities.

The confiscated weapons include various portable rockets, RPG launchers with
rounds, assault rifles, and ammo, in addition to night-vision goggles, advanced
communication devices, and materials used for manufacturing explosives.

While pursuing fleeing terrorists in the fields and wilderness surrounding
Al-Hafah, the authorities also found tunnels and vaults which the terrorists had
been using and confiscated weapons hidden in them, including RPG launchers and
rounds and assorted ammo.

Source: SANA news agency website, Damascus in English 16 Jun 12

LOAD-DATE: June 16, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2012 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              393 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                                The Western Mail

                             June 16, 2012 Saturday
                                 First Edition

Assembly police bill more than pounds 500,000;
SECURITY NECESSARY 'BECAUSE OF RISK OF TERROR ATTACK'

BYLINE: MARTIN SHIPTON

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 744 words


THE National Assembly is spending more than pounds 500,000 a year for a team of
police officers to be based at its headquarters, it has been confirmed.

Yet in the 14 years since the body was set up, only eight people have been
charged with offences allegedly committed on the premises.

The revelation comes two months after we revealed that the Assembly employs more
security guards than there are elected AMs.

But the Assembly Commission last night defended its security arrangements -
arguing they are needed because its buildings are a potential target for
terrorist attack.

Information released to the Western Mail by South Wales Police shows that in
2011/12, the cost to the Assembly of police officers stationed in its Cardiff
Bay headquarters amounted to pounds 565,756.94.

The estimate for the current 2012/13 financial year is pounds 557,614.

We also asked South Wales Police for a yearly breakdown of offences committed on
the Assembly's estate, together with the number of arrests and individuals
charged.

No recorded incidents at all were disclosed for 1999 and 2000.

In 2001 there was one arrest and one charge arising out of a hoax bomb incident,
the following year there was one in-cident of criminal damage that resulted in
two arrests and two people being charged.

Nothing was disclosed for 2003, but in 2004 an individual was arrested and
charged over an incident of assaulting a police constable.

In 2005 someone was arrested and warned for a drug offence, while another person
was arrested and given a caution for being drunk and disorderly.

The next year two people were arrested and charged with going equipped to steal,
while one person was arrested and given a fixed penalty for drunkenness.

In 2007 one person was arrested and cautioned for theft, while in 2008 there
were two separate incidents of theft with an outcome - one resulted in a person
being arrested, but no further action being taken, while the other resulted in
someone being arrested and charged.

In 2009 there were two separate incidents where single individuals were arrested
for criminal damage and given a caution.

And in 2010 there was a case in which seven people were arrested for fraud: one
was charged and the other six received cautions. Another incident of fraud in
the same year resulted in one person being arrested and charged.

No incidents occurred in 2011 that resulted in anyone being arrested or charged,
and none have been disclosed for 2012.

In addition there were 33 further offences reported between 2001 resulting in
no-one being arrested or charged: 20 of theft, four of fraud, one of causing a
public nuisance, one of criminal damage, one of theft from a motor vehicle, one
of causing a rowdy nuisance, one common assault, one "crime - other", one
described as "messages" one categorised as "property crime - commercial" and one
described as "lost/ found property/ found person".

A spokesman for the Assembly Commission said: "Security arrangements relating to
the Assembly reflect its status, along with other similar institutions in the
UK, as a potential target for terrorist attack.

"The paramount aim of the Assembly Commission is to ensure the safety of
Members, staff and visitors. Its arrangements for meeting the threat are based
on the advice of the police and the Assembly's own security advisers.

"The Commission is confident that these arrangements are both effective and
appropriate.

"For reasons which should be obvious, the Commission does comment on the details
of Assembly security arrangements." Information released to the Western Mail in
April showed that 15 Assembly security staff had been allowed to take voluntary
redundancy more than pounds 500,000.

But after the redundancies, security staff were subsequently rehired - taking
the annual tax-payers' bill for Assembly security - excluding the cost of police
officers - to pounds 1.7m for 2012-13.

The Assembly Commission - responsible for managing the Assembly's three adjacent
Cardiff Bay buildings: the Senedd, the Pierhead Building and Ty Hywel - was
accused of a serious error of judgement after confirming a decision to increase
the number of security staff to 64 had nothing to do with any perceived
increased threat from terrorism.

Instead, the increase was prompted by occasions when the Pierhead Building,
which houses the Assembly's visitors' centre, had to close during some weekends
because there weren't enough security staff available.

LOAD-DATE: June 16, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:  ¦ 'The paramount aim of the Assembly Commission is to ensure the
safety of Members, staff and visitors,' a spokesman said

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: wm


                    Copyright 2012 Western Mail and Echo Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                              394 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring Middle East - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                             June 19, 2012 Tuesday

Syrian "terrorist groups" attack oil pipelines in Homs, Dayr al-Zawr

LENGTH: 208 words


Text of report in English by state-run Syrian news agency SANA website

["Armed terrorist groups attack oil pipelines in Homs and Deir Ezzor" - SANA
headline]

Homs/ Deir Ezzor, (SANA) - An armed terrorist group on Tuesday [19 June]
detonated with an explosive device oil derivatives pipeline extending from Homs
to Damascus and the Southern Region at al-Sultaniya area in Homs causing fire to
erupt at the site of the blast.

Earlier, an armed terrorist group on Monday detonated with an explosive device
an oil transfer pipeline between Eyin Ali area south of Al-Quriya City in Dayr
al-Zawr causing fire to erupt at the site of the blast.

A source at the Ministry of Petroleum and Mineral Resources told SANA reporter
that the 24-inch diameter oil pipeline, which belongs to Al-Furat Oil Company,
transfers crude oil from Al-Omar field to T2 station.

The source added that pumping operations were halted after the explosion, adding
that the maintenance workshops will start repair works soon to restore pumping
oil in the next few days.

The same pipeline has been targeted twice during the past two weeks as an armed
terrorist group detonated the pipeline near Abu Hamam area.

H. Zain/ Ghossoun

Source: SANA news agency website, Damascus in English 19 Jun 12

LOAD-DATE: June 19, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2012 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              395 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                       BBC Monitoring Africa - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                            June 20, 2012 Wednesday

EU condemns terrorists attacks in Nigeria's Kaduna, Yobe states

LENGTH: 2035 words


Text of report by private Nigerian newspaper The Guardian website on 19 June

[Report by Saxone Akhaine, Oghogho Obayuwana, John Ogiji, Njadvara Musa, Seye
Olumide, Bankole Shakirudeen Adeshina and Ali Garba: "Soldiers Battle Insurgents
in Yobe, Kaduna; Kaduna Re-Imposes 24-Hour Curfew; EU, Others Decry Terror
Attacks; Nigeria is on Fire, Says Aliyu"]

The current spate of terrorists-induced crises in Kaduna and Yobe states
lingered yesterday in both states, pitting security forces against insurgents
and those bent on carry out reprisal attacks.

Also, Sunday's multiple bomb attacks in Kaduna and Zaria as well as the
reprisals continued to attract condemnation yesterday from concerned individuals
and groups.

The European Union (EU), the Jama'atu Islam Nasril (JNI), the Nigerian Institute
of Management (NIM), Niger State Governor, Babangida Aliyu, Christian and Muslim
clerics were some of those who condemned the attacks.

Meanwhile, Christian leaders in Zaria yesterday said that they had premonitions
of Sunday's suicide bomb attack on their churches before the incidents.

Besides, the leader of the apex Islamic body in the North, Jama'atu Islam Nasril
(JNI) and Sultan of Sokoto, Alhaji Muhammadu Abubakar Sa'ad III, has condemned
the bombing of the churches, saying that it was an attempt to paint Islam in bad
light by the perpetrators.

In a statement yesterday, the Sultan "notes with pain and sadness the sporadic
bombings of some churches in Sabon-Gari and Wusasa in Zaria, Nasarawa and
Trikaniya, Kaduna, Kaduna State."

He added: "Regrettably, the immediate reprisal attacks that were carried out by
some irate Christian youths on the Muslim communities, leading to loss of lives
and property in Sabon-Gari Tasha, Kakuri GRA, Gonin Gora, Abuja junction, all
within Kaduna State, look like pre-planned acts of unleashing terror on the
Muslims.

"We call on the government to leave no stone unturned in unmasking the
perpetrators of these heinous crimes against innocent people and their property.
These reprehensible attacks are unjustifiable as they are senseless.

"We condemn strongly in unequivocal terms, series of attacks on places of
worship, which Islam abhors and call on Nigerians to be steadfast, prayerful and
remain law-abiding in all circumstances they find themselves. We are not
oblivious of the fact that some petulant elements are bent on dragging the
Muslim ummah into a religious war with the Christian community, the consequences
of which will be unimaginable".

Also, Kaduna State Governor, Patrick Yakowa, was overwhelmed by emotions
yesterday as he visited the bombed churches in Zaria.

In Damaturu, the Yobe State capital, Monday's crossfire between men of Joint
Task Force (JTF) and a gang of armed terrorists continued yesterday.

The sporadic shootings were heard in Jerusalem and Nasarawa wards of Damaturu;
and the areas south of Sani Abacha Specialists Hospital on Gujba Road.

The state government has not been able to evacuate the remains of those who died
in the crisis, which littered the streets, owing to the 24-hour curfew imposed
by Governor Ibrahim Gaidam.

But Commander of JTF, Col. Dahiru Abdulsalami, in a telephone conversation
yesterday said: "We are on top of the situation...We actually arrested a member
of the Boko Haram who was about planting an explosive somewhere in the Damaturu
metropolis."

Abdulsalami stated that the JTF operatives had also discovered a hide-out of the
sect members at a primary school in Sabon

Peggi, where the private residence of Governor Gaidam was reportedly targeted by
the armed terrorists.

JTF and Nigeria Police sources attributed Monday's attacks and bombings to the
arrest of a suspected member of the Boko

Haram earlier in the day in Damaturu, who allegedly died in custody of security
operatives while being taken to the hospital for treatment of gunshot wounds he
sustained in a cross-fire with JTF operatives.

The Yobe State Police Commissioner, Patrick Egbuniwe, told The Guardian
yesterday that 20 civilians, four policemen, and two soldiers have been
confirmed dead in the crisis.

Churches, a police station and JTF patrol vehicles and schools were also set
ablaze in the attack, Egbuniwe added.

In Kaduna, the state government yesterday re-imposed the 24-hour curfew it
called off on humanitarian groun ds following more violent reprisals in the city
and Zaria.

The edgy situation in Kaduna, sparked by the bombing of three churches in the
state capital and Zaria last Sunday, boiled over yesterday at about 10.25 a.m.
as some armed youths attacked people going about their normal business at
Tunduwada and

Kaduna Central market areas.

News of the attack brought pandemonium on the city, particularly along the busy
Ahmadu Bello Way, Katsina Road,

Tudunupawa, Kakuri, Barnawa and others, as residents ran for dear lives, with
motorists colliding in desperate attempts to make it to safety.

An eyewitness at the Kaduna Central Market said: "There were many people who
sustained severe injuries in the attack by the youths who said they were on a
revenge mission over last Sunday's violence that claimed the lives of their
kinsmen. There were at least two corpses on the ground at the time some soldiers
came to the rescue.

They shot into the air to scare the youths away."

Soldiers and policemen shot into the air to bring the situation under control.

Another eyewitness said: " I saw many youths going from house to house in search
of some people. Many of them were angered when they brought dead bodies for
burial. These were their people killed in last Sunday's attack".

The situation degenerated further in the heart of the city as irate youths took
over other places like Lagos Street, Katsina Road, Jos Road, Ibadan Street and
their environs, attacking residents.

At Hayan Banki, Tudunupawa, Kawo and Mando, several houses were set on fire as
thick flames rent the air.

Another eyewitness told The Guardian: "Before the soldiers and police came to
Kawo Motor Park, there was serious trouble, and I saw at least four dead bodies
on the ground there".

The reports of the violence in Kaduna also engendered negative reactions from
some aggrieved youths in the southern axis of the metropolis, particularly Sabo
and Narayi where attacks were also launched.

But the quick intervention of the combined patrol teams of armed soldiers and
policemen in these two areas and other places like Television Village, Ungwar
Sunday, Gonigora, Kabala West saved the situation from degenerating.

Later in the day, military trucks and armed soldiers and police began to patrol
the troubled spots.

In a statement yesterday, Senior Special Assistant to Kaduna State Governor on
Media and Publicity, Mr Reuben Buhari, stated: "In view of certain new security
challenges that came up today, and based on the need for the state government to
continue with its responsibility of safeguarding the lives and property of its
citizens, the state government is hereby re-imposing a 24-hour curfew in all
parts of the state".

Also, Commissioner for Information, Saidu Adamu, said: "We thought that the
people understood the importance of living together and having peace in Kaduna.
That was why we decided to relax the curfew earlier on. We did it based on the
reports of the security agencies that things have normalised; that was from
Sunday night up to Monday afternoon. Unfortunately, on Monday evening when the
curfew was relaxed, we recorded some problems in Barnawa, Narayi, and some other
places."

Kaduna State Police Commissioner, Muhammed Jinjiri Abubakar, had said Yakowa's
decision to relax the curfew was responsible for yesterday's riot in Kaduna
metropolis.

Abubakar, at a briefing on the fresh attacks, pointed out that the governor
relaxed the 24 hours curfew earlier imposed "out of kindheartedness to prevent
the people from experiencing hunger and hardship in the course of observing the
curfew".

Though the Police chief refused to confirm the casualties of yesterday's
attacks, unofficial report had it that some people were killed along Nnamdi
Azikiwe Eastern bypass with several others injured.

He stated that two suspects -Malam Daudu and Mr Victor -were caught with
dangerous weapons and 17 gas cylinders suspected to be impoverished explosives.

On why the police could not foil Sunday's bombings in Kaduna and Zaria on
getting wind of the impeding attacks, Abubakar said: "My men went to service
their vehicles and that is not to say that we were taken unaware by the
bombers."

Abubakar confirmed that the injured were taken to various hospitals in the city.

Governor Aliyu, who spoke in Minna yesterday at a workshop for directors in the
state civil service, said: "The nation is on fire. We watch innocent people
being killed in bombs and reprisal attacks. We have called on Federal Government
to see the situation and help us arrest it. It is almost a year now. We seem not
to know what to do."

He stressed the need for government officials and highly placed Nigerians to go
back to their domains to educate the people on how to secure their areas and
themselves, as a first measure towards curbing attacks.

Aliyu also charged clerics of all religions to promote unity among their
followers, stressing that "evil succeeds only when the people keep quiet".

A statement by the EU Commission's Vice President and High Representative for
Foreign Affairs and Security Policy, Catherine Ashton, wrote: "Nigeria's
Constitution protects the freedom of belief and religion. Through the human
rights dialogue that exists between the EU and Nigeria, which also covers the
issues related to the freedom of belief and religion, we will explore ways that
the EU can support the government's efforts to bring order to prevent such
atrocities happening again.

"At the same time, it is important that those responsible for this terrible loss
of lives should be brought to trial and if found guilty, be punished."

According to Ashton, "the EU will renew its efforts in cooperation with the
government and people of Nigeria to "address the underlying social and economic
problems in the northern parts of the country and work with the authorities to
make the fight against terrorism more effective."

Also, President, Christian Association of Nigeria (CAN), Pastor Ayo Oritsejafor,
has flayed the administration of President Goodluck Jonathan over the attacks.

In a statement, Oritsejafor said: "Since these terrorist acts began, nothing the
President, Dr Goodluck Ebele Jonathan, has done has been re-assuring. On the
contrary, his utterances after each bombing and killings, even if unwittingly,
seem to have cast a hallmark of weakness on his Presidency and an escalation of
the terrorist acts."

In a reaction, Chairman, Bauchi State Muslims Christian Peace initiative, Alhaji
Aminu Sidi, appealed to the Federal Government and other stakeholders to do all
they could to stop the suicide bombing of places of worship across the country.

Also, President and Chairman-In-Council, NIM, Dr Michael Olawale-Cole, has
expressed deep concern over the reprisal attacks that trailed the bombings.

In a statement, Olawale?Cole, who described the latest attacks as "despicable
and condemnable act, which have further portrayed the country as unsafe for
all", reminded Christians that "vengeance is of the Lord and forgiveness one of
the virtues of true Christianity."

Secretary of the Second ECWA DCC, which was affected by Sunday's explosion, Rev.
Chris Dariya, told Governor Yakowa that they actually got information that the
Boko Haram Islamic sect was planning to attack churches on Sunday.

He added: "We were very concerned and thought of what to do in order to avert
the attack. There were soldiers patrolling and guarding the area. I saw them
packing their things and I drove there and asked two of them what was happening.
Also, I told them of what we heard. I said: 'You are packing your things and it
does not speak well for the community and for me as a religious leader.'

"I was told that the community was disturbing them and that is why they have to
move. I told them that 'it was not the community that kept you here, but the
government.' But they told me they were ordered, but I don't know where the
orders came from".

Source: The Guardian website, Lagos, in English 19 Jun 12

LOAD-DATE: June 20, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2012 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              396 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                       BBC Monitoring Trans Caucasus Unit
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                             June 21, 2012 Thursday

Iranian embassy denies any connection to failed terrorist attack in Georgia

LENGTH: 122 words


Iranian embassy in Georgia has issued an official statement saying that Iran has
nothing to do with the failed terrorist attack aimed at Israeli embassy in
February, the Kavkas Press news agency reported on 21 June.

"Iranians are quite fearless and brave people, who will never resort to such
actions as terror, which is a business of weak powers that are unable to
confront their adversary openly," the statement said.

A car bomb involving an Israeli embassy vehicle in Georgian capital Tbilisi was
defused on 13 February 2012. During a suspected coordinated terrorist attack,
the Israeli Embassy car exploded in New Delhi on the same day, leaving at least
four people injured.

Source: Kavkas-Press, Tbilisi, in Georgian 0739gmt 21 Jun 12

LOAD-DATE: June 21, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2012 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              397 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                       June 21, 2012 Thursday 3:26 PM GMT

Bali bomber sentenced to 20 years in Indonesia;
A court in Jakarta convicted a militant on Thursday for making the bombs that
killed 202 people at Bali nightclubs in 2002 and sentenced him to 20 years in
the final trial of those responsible for Indonesia's worst terror attack.

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 118 words


Umar Patek was found guilty on all six charges at a court surrounded by snipers
and bomb defusal experts.

Aside from his role in the Bali bombings, he also mixed chemicals for 13 bombs
that detonated in five churches in the capital on Christmas Eve in 2000 and
killed around 15 people.

The Bali bombs were a watershed for Indonesia, which has the world's largest
Muslim population, forcing the secular state to confront the presence of violent
militants. It has since been largely successful in containing militant attacks.

Patek, 45, was captured in the same Pakistan town where U.S. forces killed Osama
bin Laden, and security officials say he belonged to the banned Jemaah Islamiah
group linked to al-Qaeda.

LOAD-DATE: June 22, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTNS


                  Copyright 2012 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              398 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                          Bradford Telegraph and Argus

                              June 22, 2012 Friday

"Wife of Bradford man planned terrorism bomb attacks"

BYLINE: Michael Black

SECTION: BRADFORD NEWS (BRADFORD NEWS)

LENGTH: 444 words


Police found a cache of terrorist material after being called to a domestic
dispute at the home a hairdresser shared with her Bradford husband, a jury was
told.

Beheading videos, propaganda glorifying Osama bin Laden and bomb-making guides
were seized along with peroxide and bleach, used by Shasta Khan in her work,
which together with electrical equipment were being readied to make an
improvised explosive device (IED), Manchester Crown Court head yesterday. Three-
times married Khan, 38, denies involvement in terror activities, the jury was
told.

Her Bradford-raised husband Mohammed Sajid Khan, 33, has pleaded guilty to the
same charges.

The pair were in the process of assembling components of a home-made IED to
attack Jewish neighbourhoods after becoming radicalised by al Qaida on the
internet, it is alleged.

Shasta Khan, who ran her hairdressing business from the couple's terraced house
in Oldham, along with her unemployed car valeter husband, planned to carry out
"jihad at home", pursued through "lone wolf" terrorist attacks, Bobbie Cheema,
prosecuting, told the court.

The pair were "mercifully" stopped by chance after a minor domestic row led to
police being called to their house in July last year.

Following the argument her husband left the marital home to return to his
parents' home in Bradford and Shasta Khan then "spilled the beans" on her
husband.

But so much terror-related material was found at their home she was soon asked
to explain herself and arrested on terror offences, the court has earlier heard.

Miss Cheema took the jury through just a selection of the evidence officers
seized from the property and the couple's two cars.

Seemingly innocuous and innocent items had a more sinister purpose, it was
suggested to the jury.

Chemicals used in Mrs Khan's work, such as bleach, acetone and peroxide liquid,
were capable of being used in explosives along with other household items such
as salt and sugar.

Ground-up fire lighters, safety goggles, a funnel, needles and syringes were
also part of the paraphernalia for a home-made bomb, the court heard.

The jury was told that one of the most significant finds was the contents a bag
from the electrical shop Maplins.

Inside were electrical wires, Christmas tree lights, bulbs and a battery.

In one or two days a bomb could be made to kill "at least ten people" and with
more time "tens of people", the article said.

Shasta Khan is on trial accused of engaging in conduct in preparation for acts
of terrorism and three counts of possessing information useful for committing or
preparing for an act of terrorism between August 2010 and July last year.

She denies all charges.

The trial continues.

LOAD-DATE: July 16, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2012 NewsQuest Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              399 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                        June 22, 2012 Friday 7:08 PM GMT

Kenyan police arrest Iranians suspected of terror plot;
Kenyan police have arrested two Iranians on suspicion of planning terrorist
attacks in concert with al-Shabaab, the extremist group based in southern
Somalia.

BYLINE: By Zoe Flood in Nairobi

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 420 words


One of the suspects led police to a large cache of chemicals on Friday that
officers believe could have been used to make explosives. The material was
hidden at a golf club in the port city of Mombasa.

A senior anti-terrorism officer told The Daily Telegraph that the two men "were
planning to help al-Shabaab carry out revenge attacks in Kenya because of the
Kenya Defence Forces' incursion inside Somalia". Security sources said the men
were suspected of planning attacks in Mombasa or Nairobi.

Last year, Kenya launched a military operation across the border into Somalia to
try and crush al-Shabaab, after a wave of kidnappings of foreigners had severely
damaged the tourism industry.

Since then, a series of attacks has taken place in Kenyan cities. The latest - a
large bomb that exploded in central Nairobi - wounded more than 30 people, one
of whom later died.

Police arrested the Iranians on Wednesday in Nairobi, with an official accusing
the men of having links to a "wider network of terrorists", including
al-Shabaab.

One suspect disclosed 15kg of chemicals in a hiding place at Mombasa Golf Club,
a 9-hole course overlooking the Indian Ocean. Police believe this to be an
ammonia-based compound and samples have been sent for tests.

"The substance was found on the premises of the Golf Club - not in the building
but hidden in a hole under a bush on the course itself," said Ambrose Munyasia,
a senior police officer in Coast Province.

The police have not confirmed what charges - if any - the men will face.
"Investigations into the Iranian nationals are ongoing and it is likely that
they will soon appear in court," said Francis Mwaka, a government spokesman.

In 2006, the United Nations identified Iran as one of seven countries breaking
an arms embargo on Somalia by supplying the Islamist militants who then
controlled much of the country's south. A report compiled for the Security
Council described three illegal shipments of weapons from Iran, including
surface-to-air missiles, machine guns and rocket launchers, although Tehran
denied the claims.

Earlier this year, Israel accused Iran of organising attacks on its diplomats in
India and Georgia. Tehran denied involvement in the bombings, which injured
several people in New Delhi. One day later, an Iranian man was seriously wounded
while trying to throw a bomb at police in Thailand's capital Bangkok.

Experts believe that Iran might seek to retaliate for the assassination of
several of its nuclear scientists in Tehran, allegedly by Israel.

LOAD-DATE: June 23, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTNS


                  Copyright 2012 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              400 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                        June 22, 2012 Friday 5:58 PM GMT

Anders Breivik: I was defending the Norwegian people;
Norwegian far-right extremist Anders Behring Breivik has demanded an acquital
for his brutal terror attacks last July, arguing that he was acting to protect
Norwegians.

BYLINE: By Richard Orange

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 713 words


"The 22nd July was a preventive attack in defence of my ethnic group, and I
cannot acknowledge guilt," he told the court. "I acted on behalf of my people,
my religion and my country. I therefore demand that I be acquitted."

More than 30 relatives of victims stood up and walked out of the courtroom when
the self-confessed killer began to speak, ending a gruelling 10-week trial in
which the Nordic nation has tried to come to terms with the worst atrocity in
its post-war history.

"He has a right to talk. We have no duty to listen," Christian Bjelland, the
vice chair of the support group for survivors of the July 22 attacks and
victims' families, said before the final session.

Before Breivik's statement, the court applauded Kirsti Lovlie, as she spoke of
life without her daughter Hanne, who died in the attack. Judge Wenche Elizabeth
Arntzen wiped away tears.

"This is my court," she said. "This man will no longer scare me. He will never
come out. I do not waste much time and effort on this man, and I think I will
live well with what has happened here."

Lara Rashid described how moved she had been by the public support at the
funeral of her elder sister Bano, who was also killed on the island.

"Bano did not die in vain. She died for the multicultural Norway," she said. "
The funeral gave me motivation. The multi-cultural Norway that I'm so proud of,
it showed me that he failed."

Breivik admits to killing eight people when he bombed government buildings in
Oslo, before shooting young Labour Party supporters at an island camp, killing
69 more.

He warned that others would follow in his footsteps.

"My brothers in the Norwegian and European resistance movements are sitting
there and watching this case while they are planning new attacks," he said "They
may be responsible for as many as 40,000 deaths."

So unlikely was Breivik's defence that his lawyer Geir Lippestad required
prompting from Judge Wenche Elizabeth Arntzen before mentioning it.

"Oh yes. I forgot that. It is here on my notes," he said.

Instead, he argued that Breivik had a "human right" to be punished in prison for
his brutal terror attacks last July, as he pushed against the prosecution's a
recommendation that his his client face "compulsory mental health care".

"If we look at basic human rights, and take into account that the defendant has
a political project, to see his actions as an expression of illness is to take
away a basic human right, the right to take responsibility for his own actions,"
Defence lawyer Geir Lippestad said.

In Breivik's closing speech he railed against the two psychiatrists who
diagnosed him as schizophrenic, leading to his anti-Islamic ideology to be
written off as the rantings of a madman.

Breivik has described treatment in a mental hospital as "a fate worse than
death" and "the ultimate humiliation", and has considerably toned down his
original rhetoric about the Knights Templar movement to sway the judges.

"July 22 was an inferno of violence," Mr Lippestad said, arguing that Breivik
was a far-right extremist who had been "radicalised through contacts on the
web."

He dismissed the argument of the first team of forensic psychiatrists that
Breivik's belief that he has the "right to decide who should live and die" was a
delusion, evidence of schizophrenia.

"He realized that it is wrong to kill, but he chose to kill. That's what
terrorists do," Mr Lippestad said. "The ends justify the means."

Mr Lippestad's argument reversed that of Norwegian prosecutor Svein Holden, who
argued yesterday that there was enough doubt over whether Breivik was sane when
he killed 77 people last July, that he could not recommend a prison sentence.

"It is worse that a psychotic be sentenced to custody than a non-psychotic is
sentenced to psychiatric care," Mr Holden argued.

Breivik's sanity has been the key question for the court, which has to make a
decision on the basis of two contradictory official psychiatric reports, the
first of which diagnosed the killer as suffering from paranoid schizophrenia,
and the second of which said he was sane enough to face jail.

If the court decides that he is sane, he faces a maximum sentence of 21 years in
jail.

The Oslo district court has said that the panel of five judges will make its
final ruling on August 24

LOAD-DATE: June 23, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTNS


                  Copyright 2012 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              401 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                       June 22, 2012 Friday 11:14 AM GMT

Anders Behring Breivik has 'human right' to be jailed: defence;
Norwegian far-right extremist Anders Behring Breivik should be punished in
prison for his brutal terror attacks last July, according to the killer's
defence lawyer who pushed to overrule a recommendation that his his client
should face "compulsory mental health care".

BYLINE: By Richard Orange

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 536 words


The defence's closing argument began the last session of the gruelling 10-week
trial in which the Nordic nation has tried to come to terms with the worst
atrocity in its post-war history.

"It is not violence which lies behind his acts, but political extremism,"
defence lawyer Geir Lippestad argued at the end of a speech in which he sought a
"more lenient standard of proof on the question of sanity", for a case he said
was "without precedent".

"The accused always benefits from reasonable doubt. When the accused wishes to
be punished, then what?" he asked.

"If we consider basic human rights, beginning with the fact that the accused has
a radical political project that makes his actions pathological, then we could
deprive him of his basic human rights: the right to be responsible for one's
actions."

An insanity ruling would come as a bitter disappointment to the 33-year-old in
his battle to ensure that his anti-Islamic ideology is not written off as the
rantings of a madman.

Breivik has described treatment in a mental hospital as "a fate worse than
death" and "the ultimate humiliation", and has considerably toned down his
original rhetoric about the Knights Templar movement to sway the judges.

Many fear that the killer will use the closing speech in the trial to once again
expound his radical views, arguing that he should be seen as a hero for the
atrocities he committed.

Many of the bereaved and the survivors of the attacks plan to walk out in
protest when Breivik begins to speak.

"We have decided that we're going to leave the courtroom when he starts
speaking," said Trond Henry Blattman, whose 17-year-old son was among the 69
people killed in Breivik's shooting. "It's a demonstration. On Wednesday I felt
that his comments were completely horrible, and I took it very hard. I know that
this is his right, but we don't need to listen."

He admits to killing eight people by bombed government buildings in Oslo, before
shooting young Labour Party supporters at an island camp, killing 69 more.

But he claims the attacks were "necessary" to stop the "Islamisation" of Norway.

Before Breivik's statement, the court has given time for five of the survivors
and bereaved to give their own arguments and thoughts on the man who carried out
the attacks. They are Unni Espeland, Sissel Willsgarv, Lara Rashid, Tonja Brenna
and Kirsti Lovlie.

Mr Lippestad's argument reversed that of Norwegian prosecutor Svein Holden, who
argued yesterday that there was enough doubt over whether Breivik was sane when
he killed 77 people last July, that he could not recommend a prison sentence.

"It is worse that a psychotic be sentenced to custody than a non-psychotic is
sentenced to psychiatric care," Mr Holden argued.

Breivik's sanity has been the key question for the court, which has to make a
decision on the basis of two contradictory official psychiatric reports, the
first of which diagnosed the killer as suffering from paranoid schizophrenia,
and the second of which said he was sane enough to face jail.

If the court decides that he is sane, he faces a maximum sentence of 21 years in
jail.

The Oslo district court has said that the panel of five judges will make its
final ruling on July 20 or August 24

LOAD-DATE: June 23, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTNS


                  Copyright 2012 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              402 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                        June 22, 2012 Friday 9:54 AM GMT

Breivik has "human right" to be jailed: defence;
Norwegian far-right extremist Anders Behring Breivik should be punished in
prison for his brutal terror attacks last July, according to the killer's
defence lawyer who pushed to overrule a recommendation that his his client
should face "compulsory mental health care".

BYLINE: By Richard Orange

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 458 words


The defence's closing argument began the last session of the gruelling 10-week
trial in which the Nordic nation has tried to come to terms with the worst
atrocity in its post-war history.

"It is not violence which lies behind his acts, but political extremism,"
defence lawyer Geir Lippestad argued at the end of a speech in which he sought a
"more lenient standard of proof on the question of sanity", for a case he said
was "without precedent".

"The accused always benefits from reasonable doubt. When the accused wishes to
be punished, then what?" he asked.

"If we consider basic human rights, beginning with the fact that the accused has
a radical political project that makes his actions pathological, then we could
deprive him of his basic human rights: the right to be responsible for one's
actions."

An insanity ruling would come as a bitter disappointment to the 33-year-old in
his battle to ensure that his anti-Islamic ideology is not written off as the
rantings of a madman.

Breivik has described treatment in a mental hospital as "a fate worse than
death" and "the ultimate humiliation", and has considerably toned down his
original rhetoric about the Knights Templar movement to sway the judges.

Many fear that the killer will use the closing speech in the trial to once again
expound his radical views, arguing that he should be seen as a hero for the
atrocities he committed.

He admits to killing eight people by bombed government buildings in Oslo, before
shooting young Labour Party supporters at an island camp, killing 69 more.

But he claims the attacks were "necessary" to stop the "Islamisation" of Norway.

Before Breivik's statement, the court has given time for five of the survivors
and bereaved to give their own arguments and thoughts on the man who carried out
the attacks. They are Unni Espeland, Sissel Willsgarv, Lara Rashid, Tonja Brenna
and Kirsti Lovlie.

Mr Lippestad's argument reversed that of Norwegian prosecutor Svein Holden, who
argued yesterday that there was enough doubt over whether Breivik was sane when
he killed 77 people last July, that he could not recommend a prison sentence.

"It is worse that a psychotic be sentenced to custody than a non-psychotic is
sentenced to psychiatric care," Mr Holden argued.

Breivik's sanity has been the key question for the court, which has to make a
decision on the basis of two contradictory official psychiatric reports, the
first of which diagnosed the killer as suffering from paranoid schizophrenia,
and the second of which said he was sane enough to face jail.

If the court decides that he is sane, he faces a maximum sentence of 21 years in
jail.

The Oslo district court has said that the panel of five judges will make its
final ruling on July 20 or August 24

LOAD-DATE: June 23, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTNS


                  Copyright 2012 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              403 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring Middle East - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                             June 23, 2012 Saturday

Algerian policeman said killed in "spectacular terrorist attack"

LENGTH: 209 words


An Algerian policeman has been killed and two others injured in a "spectacular
terrorist attack" by an armed group in the city centre of the Berber town of
Bouira, some 110 km southeast of Algiers, the Algerian privately-owned
French-language newspaper El Watan reported on 23 June.

The paper said that the attack took place the previous day when policemen on
patrol on board of a four-wheel drive vehicle came under attack at two o'clock
in the morning. The paper said its sources had given two versions of this
"spectacular terrorist attack".

According to the first one, "terrorists" on board a Chevrolet vehicle opened
fire on the policemen before fleeing the scene. The second version said that two
"terrorists with Kalashnikovs" opened fire on a second police vehicle and fled
towards a working class district of the town.

"However, the least we can say is that this terrorist attack in the city centre
was unexpected since the security services had become more vigilant in the last
few years by carrying out a special plan aimed at securing the town," El Watan
said. "How did the terrorists get to the city centre? The residents are asking
this question and expect the worst," the paper added.

Source: El Watan website, Algiers, in French 23 Jun 12

LOAD-DATE: June 23, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2012 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              404 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring South Asia - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                             June 23, 2012 Saturday

Afghan pundits slam intelligence bodies for failing to foil terror attacks

LENGTH: 631 words


Excerpt from report by privately-owned Noor TV on 23 June

[Presenter] The US and NATO commander in Afghanistan says that the Haqqani
network was behind the attack by a group of armed assailants in Spozhmai Hotel
in Qargha Lake of Kabul. In the meantime, a number of analysts say that blaming
terrorists for carrying out such attacks does not mean that intelligence bodies
have carried out their counter-terror duties. They also say that the government
and the international community have failed to adopt a transparent stance to
annihilate the bases and main funding centres of terrorists.

Abdollah Basir with more details:

[Correspondent] Gen John Allen, the US and NATO commander in Afghanistan have
said that the Haqqani network was behind the attack by a group of armed suicide
bombers in Spozhmai Hotel in Qargha Lake of Kabul last Thursday night [21-22
June]. The NATO press office has said in a statement that the US and NATO
commander praised efforts by the police to bring the attack under control and
condemned the barbaric attack.

[Passage omitted: Text of remark by Gen Allen accusing the Haqqani network of
carrying out the attack].

[Correspondent] This comes at a time when the US defence secretary had
previously said in Kabul that US patience has reached its limit and that the
Haqqani network uses safe havens in Pakistan to carry out bloody attacks in
Afghanistan. The Haqqani network, which is said to have safe havens in North
Waziristan of Pakistan, has been blamed for carrying out bloody attacks in
Afghanistan over the past decade. But some analysts believe that blaming the
Haqqani and some other terrorist networks for the incident does not mean that
intelligence forces have fulfilled their responsibility to prevent such
incidents.

[Gen Amrollah Aman, a military affairs expert, captioned] What is said by
foreigners, Gen John Allen and officials of Afghan security sectors is not
related to the oppressed Afghan nation at all, so it means that they want to
investigate to find a reason to say that they are not blamed for the attack.

[Mohammad Asem, a political analyst, captioned] It certainly means evading
responsibility and showing a failure in performing the duty and mission that
senior officials and leaders of the international community and the leadership
of the armed forces of Afghanistan have the responsibility for.

[Correspondent] These analysts criticize the government and the international
community and say that the international community has failed to adopt a clear
stance to annihilate terrorists' bases and their main centres.

[Asem] It is clear that where the opponents are trained and how they are
equipped and foreign circles and networks who support them are also somewhat
specific. But the government of Afghanistan and the international community have
not adopted a clear stance in this regard. We can see a type of negligence
because they exchange views, words and try to make justifying remarks.

[Correspondent] These analysts also criticize intelligence bodies and say that
they have acted very weakly in tackling such attacks.

[Aman] The people will not accept this when they say after two, three, four or
five days that the Haqqani network is behind the incident, so why have we failed
to take strong [preventive] measures and why have we failed to prevent an
incident before it happens, no matter who carries it out. In fact, this shows
the failure of intelligence sectors of Afghanistan and the failure of Afghan
security forces.

[Correspondent] Some 18 civilians including three employees of the hotel and
three police officers were martyred in the attack by a group of suicide
assailants on Spozhmai Hotel in Qargha Lake last Thursday and three civilians
including a police were wounded.

Source: Noor TV, Kabul, in Dari 1300 gmt 23 Jun 12

LOAD-DATE: June 23, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2012 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              405 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                   MailOnline

                      June 23, 2012 Saturday 10:47 PM GMT

Easy prey: Damning security review reveals that Indian missions overseas are
soft targets for terror attacks

BYLINE: DIPANJAN ROY CHAUDHURY

SECTION: INDIANEWS

LENGTH: 1153 words


Scary as it sounds, India's diplomatic missions in many countries, especially
those in our neighbourhood, are sitting ducks for terror attacks because the
security arrangements of the host nations are far from satisfactory.

So worrying is the situation that the Indian government has been forced to
intervene and direct all its missions abroad to work closely with the host
countries and their security agencies to ensure the safety of the diplomatic
installations.

It was an aborted terror attack on the Indian embassy in France earlier this
year that prompted the government to undertake an unprecedented review of the
security at 162 Indian missions and posts abroad, leading to the alarming
conclusion that the country's diplomatic staff faced a serious threat in many
countries.

Corrective measures have been taken up and it is understood that external
affairs ministry officials have visited various embassies and high commissions
to review security preparedness and hold deliberations with the local
authorities.

Sources pointed out that the Indian mission, which were already in regular touch
with the foreign ministries and security agencies of the host countries, have
stepped up their cooperation to safeguard the embassies.

This includes sharing of information on threat perception and activities of
terror modules on a real time basis as Pakistan- based terror networks expand
their reach to new areas. In July 2008, the Indian embassy in Kabul was the
target of a suicide attack in which 58 people, including an Indian Foreign
Service officer were killed.

In another suicide blast at the embassy in Afghanistan in October 2009, 17
people were killed. The Taliban was behind the attacks in which Pakistan's ISI
is also believed to have played a role.

The aborted attack in Paris underlines the chilling truth that India's embassies
and consulates in other countries, including European nations, too are now on
the radar of the Taliban, al-Qaeda and other terror outfits. Mohamed Merah, who
killed seven people, including three children at a Jewish school, and was later
shot dead by the French special forces in Toulouse on March 22, had also planned
to attack the Indian embassy in Paris.

According to the French Central Directorate of Internal Intelligence and the
special forces, Merah's Taliban handlers in Pakistan had ordered him in 2011 to
target the Indian mission. Reports said Merah dropped the idea given the
difficulty of the enterprise, underscoring the fact that an efficient
intelligence and security apparatus could thwart a possible attack. Sources
indicated that India was satisfied with the French approach to secure its
embassy and diplomats.

The security infrastructure in other developed nations in Europe, the US,
Canada, Australia, Russia and Gulf countries, too, has given the country much
confidence. But in many other countries in South Asia, particularly in the
volatile Afghanistan-Pakistan, the country's diplomatic establishment faces
serious threat. Former Intelligence Bureau (IB) chief Ajit Doval pointed out
that physical security of diplomatic missions was the responsibility of the host
country. "The French security system is quite robust which enabled it to thwart
the terror attack. Besides physical security, intelligence agencies also need to
penetrate terror cells to foil plans. Indian intelligence agencies need to
collaborate with their counterparts and share information to prevent attacks on
its missions," he said. Former Research and Analysis Wing (RAW) chief A.S. Dulat
said: "The threat perception has increased worldwide post 9/11. It is important
for any Indian mission to identify where and who the threat is from. This is the
key to safeguarding the diplomatic installations." Security preparedness at
Indian missions has been put under three categories. Those in developed
countries like the US, France, the UK, Russia, Australia and Gulf nations get
effective safety cover due to the robust security system of the host country.
But the quality of the security apparatus in neighbouring Nepal, Pakistan and
Afghanistan is not satisfactory.

'This increases the vulnerability of the missions there. We do not take any
chances and chalk out our plans of protecting the missions,' an informed source
said.

EXPERT'S OPINION

'India's intel agencies need to collaborate with their counterparts and share
information to prevent attacks on missions.' - AJIT DOVAL, former IB chief.

The Indian missions have to make their own arrangements by remaining on high
alert and gathering real time information by sharing inputs with the
headquarters and security agencies in India. Diplomatic missions in West Asia,
such as in volatile Syria, have been asked to be on alert and chalk out
contingency plans to shift to neighbouring Lebanon or Jordan if the situation
worsens.

The Bureau of Security (BOS) in the external affairs ministry, comprising
officials drawn from the home ministry and the IB, makes the security assessment
of diplomatic missions worldwide. Key Indian diplomatic missions in the US, the
UK, Russia and neighbours such as Nepal, Bangladesh, and Pakistan each have an
officer from the BOS who is the charge of overall security of the respective
embassies. BOS representatives posted abroad coordinate with security and
intelligence agencies of the host countries.

EXPERT'S OPINION

'It is important for Indian missions to identify where the threat is from.This
is key to safeguarding diplomatic installations' -  A.S. DULAT, former RA'W
chief

Strategic affairs expert Sushant Sareen feels that the Indian mission in
Pakistan faces a threat because terror activities against India are sponsored by
the state. In many countries, the security infrastructure of the host countries
is incapable of providing the required protection while in some cases, safety is
compromised because of hostile ties.

'Certain Indian missions in South Asia and China have an intrusive security
infrastructure due to the hostility that exists there. Western countries have a
system in place that can detect a threat in advance. Besides, they do not
sponsor terror against India.

'There are terror cells in these (other) countries and it is essential for the
local security to penetrate these cells to thwart any threat,' said Sareen.

According to noted security expert Ajai Sahni, diplomatic missions in South Asia
are vulnerable due to the porous borders across the region and because 'the
supply line of terrorists from Pakistan' is too close to Nepal, Afghanistan and
Bangladesh.

'This increases the vulnerability of the Indian missions there. While the local
security agencies assure the Indian embassies of providing elaborate security,
we do not take any chances and chalking out our plans of protecting the
missions,' an informed source said.

LOAD-DATE: June 24, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDM


                   Copyright 2012 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              406 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                   MailOnline

                        June 25, 2012 Monday 3:50 PM GMT

'Key organiser of 2008 Mumbai terror attacks that killed 166 admits to leading
active role after his arrest in Delhi'

BYLINE: DAILY MAIL REPORTER

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 248 words


A key organiser of the 2008 Mumbai terror attacks has confessed to his role in
the three-day massacre, it has been claimed.

Syed Zabiuddin, thought to be a member of the Pakistan-based Lashkar e Taiba
terrorist group, is currently in custody after being detained in Delhi.

He has admitted to playing a key part in the attack that killed 166 civilians,
the Indian Express reports.

Also known as Abu Jindal, he has reportedly said he worked in 'close tandem'
with terror mastermind Zakiur Rehman Lakhvi.

The attacks saw ten Pakistani extremists slaughter 166 civilians in a vicious
rampage.

During his interrogation, he has also confessed to being in the terror network
control room in Karachi, where he gave direction to the terrorists who carried
out the strike.

He is also said to have acted as a 'handler' for the terrorists and taught them
how to speak Hindi so they could pass as locals when arriving in Mumbai.

The terrorists targeted guests at two five star hotels, a Jewish centre and
commuters at the city's main railway station.

The Times of India reported that he told the attackers to tell the media it was
just 'a trailer and the entire movie was yet to come'.

India's foreign minister S.M Krishna confirmed the arrest yesterday amid reports
that the suspect had been departed from Saudi Arabia.

He said: 'Let the Delhi police go through the investigation first.

'And then they will send a report to the government and then we will certainly
see what appropriate, action can be taken.'

LOAD-DATE: June 26, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDM


                   Copyright 2012 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              407 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                        June 25, 2012 Monday 2:56 PM GMT

Wimbledon 2012: no-fly zone declared over championships to prevent terror attack
;
A no-fly zone has been declared over the Wimbledon championships for the first
time since the September 11 terror attacks.

BYLINE: By Victoria Ward

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 517 words


Aircraft are banned from flying below 500 feet over the All England Club  in
London SW19 and within a perimeter of 0.75 nautical miles.

Ground commander Supt Pete Dobson of the Metropolitan Police said that general
security had been increased for this year's tournament, which ends just 18 days
before the Olympics, and that more uniformed and plain clothed officers would be
on the ground.

"I am conscious that the attention is on London throughout the whole summer," he
said.

"I am acutely aware that if someone was to do something untoward here it could
well have a knock on effect on the Olympics.There is a greater security
awareness this year.

"We are always looking to improve security plans so we do review it and we do
make some tactical changes so we can defeat anyone who is trying to do a hostile
reconnaissance."

He said the exclusion zone had been enforced to "minimise disruption" after the
club made complaints last year about the noise.

However, he admitted that although the decision had not been driven by security
"it did help" particularly as the Olympic tennis matches will all be played at
the club.

"We just don't want strange aircraft flying overhead if we can avoid it," he
added.

The last time a no-fly zone was enforced at the tournament was for two
consecutive years in the wake of the attacks on the World Trade Center in a
direct response to the increased threat level.

Several individuals have also been banned from entering the site, many of whom
are considered a particular threat to female players.

Their names have been circulated and they have been warned to keep away from the
area for the duration of the next two weeks.

Supt Dobson declined to disclose how many were on the list but said: "There are
a number of individuals of concern to women's tennis.

"Some are stalkers of players, some have been coaches that have been dismissed.
There have been domestic issues within the tennis word and as a result they are
not welcome at these events."

Security fears were heightened when Monica Seles was stabbed in the back with a
nine-inch kitchen knife on court in April 1993. Her attacker, Gunter Parche, an
obsessed Steffi Graf fan, was given a two-year suspended sentence.

Players such as Maria Sharapova and sisters Venus and Serena Williams are known
to have been troubled by obsessive fans in the past while Martina Hingis once
received a series of disturbing calls and faxes from a stalker.

A two-kilmometre dispersal zone is in force for the fifth year running which
allows officers to move groups of two or more people deemed to be acting
antisocially away from the area and to keep touts at bay.

Armed protection officers are also on site to assist VIP guests such as members
of the Royal Family, government ministers and ambassadors.

Today, Princess Michael of Kent and Sir Clive Woodward will be among those in
the Royal Box but fans will be keeping their eyes peeled for Pippa Middleton and
her sister, the Duchess of Cambridge, who are both keen tennis fans and often
visit the tournament.

Read more from Wimbledon 2012

LOAD-DATE: June 26, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTNS


                  Copyright 2012 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              408 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                        June 25, 2012 Monday 2:05 PM GMT

Mumbai terror attack organiser arrested;
Police in India have arrested one of the key organisers of the 2008 Mumbai
terror attacks in which 10 Pakistani extremists killed 166 civilians in a three
day massacre.

BYLINE: By Dean Nelson New Delhi

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 208 words


Syed Zabiuddin, an alleged member of the Pakistan-based Lashkar e Taiba
terrorist group, is being questioned in police custody over his involvement.

Detectives believe Zabiuddin, also known as Abu Jindal, acted as a 'handler' for
the terrorist commandos and had coached them in the Hindi language to help them
pass as local Indians when they first arrived in Mumbai.

He is also alleged to have given live telephone instructions and directions for
the terrorists as they mounted their attacks on guests at two five star hotels,
a Jewish centre and commuters at the city's main railway station.

Police suspect his voice to be one of those recorded communicating with the
gunmen who killed a Rabbi and his wife who ran the Chabad House Jewish centre in
the heart of Mumbai.

According to the Times of India, they believe he told the gunmen to inform the
media the attack was just "a trailer and the entire movie was yet to come."
India's foreign minister S.M Krishna confirmed the arrest yesterday amid reports
that the suspect had been departed from Saudi Arabia.

"Let the Delhi police go through the investigation first, and then they will
send a report to the government and then we will certainly see what appropriate
... action can be taken," he said.

LOAD-DATE: June 26, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTNS


                  Copyright 2012 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              409 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                       BBC Monitoring Trans Caucasus Unit
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                             June 26, 2012 Tuesday

Iran Guards say major attack thwarted in March, 4 "terrorist groups" destroyed

LENGTH: 294 words


The Islamic Revolution Guards Corps (IRGC) has said it destroyed four terrorist
groups in in south-eastern Iran in the past several months and thwarted a major
attack during the Iranian New Year holiday (20 March-4 April), Fars news agency
reported on 26 June.

"These four terrorist teams were destroyed in the south eastern region and
failed to reach the centre of the country. Our powerful intelligence coverage
led them to be destroyed right after they crossed the border," Fars quoted the
commander of the IRGC's Ground Force, Brig-Gen Mohammad Pakpur, as saying.

"We were aware that anti-Revolution elements based abroad had organized a number
of teams to carry out suicide operations."

He continued: "We arrested the first team 2-3 days before New Year holidays.
They were carrying a large number of suicide belts and explosive jackets."

He went on: "Afterwards, we got hold of some clues and performed various
operations in the southeast, which led to the destruction of two more groups and
the death of four of their members. A number of group members with complete
equipment were also arrested."

"The fourth terrorist team was destroyed about one month ago," Pakpur said and
added "when pictures of the equipment of these teams are published you will
understand what sort of plot they had planned for the people of this country
during the New Year holidays. Their plots were thwarted."

"The suicide jackets they had brought in were three times as powerful as the one
used in Pishin region [in Sistan-Baluchestan Province], which led to the
martyrdom of Gen [Nurali] Shushtari [IRGC commander in Sistan-Baluchestan] and
his comrades [in an attack in 2009]," the agency quoted him as saying.

Source: Fars news agency, Tehran, in Persian 0734 gmt, 0813 gmt 26 Jun 12

LOAD-DATE: June 26, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2012 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              410 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                       BBC Monitoring Europe - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                             June 26, 2012 Tuesday

US embassy attacker complains about being called terrorist by Bosnian media

LENGTH: 732 words


Text of report by Bosnian wide-circulation privately-owned daily Dnevni avaz, on
25 June

[Report by "A.Du.": "Jasarevic Confirms Link to Imamovic, Porca"]

The Wahhabi Mevlid Jasarevic, the Serbian terrorist who is currently on trial
before the B-H Court for attacking the United States Embassy in Sarajevo, has
recently sent to several addresses, including a number of editorial offices, a
letter in which he confirms his links to leaders of the radical Wahhabi
community in Gornja Maoca and Vienna.

The backside of the envelope lists as recipients people like Nusret Imamovic,
the Wahhabi leader in Gornja Maoca, and Muhamed Porca in Vienna. There is
grounded suspicion that they were the indoctrinators and inspirers of the said
terrorist attack in Sarajevo.

Attack's Ideologue

Jasarevic does not mention the name of the Wahhabi leader in the letter itself,
but he paints a picture of this person in the contents. [sentence as published]
Jasarevic, in the style of "Al-Qa'idah fighters," complains in his letter about
the media describing him as a terrorist. He "defends himself" from the
allegation that his attack harmed Bosnia-Hercegovina's reputation. On the other
hand, he also compares himself with the Norwegian monster, Anders Behring
Breivik, who brutally killed 69 people last year.

Theses From Will

"How is it possible that no one has said that Breivik harmed Norway's
reputation? You also have a brother (editorial note: 21-year-old Arif Uka from
Kosovska Mitrovica) who killed two American pilots. No one said that this harmed
Germany," Jasarevic writes, among other things, in his letter.

It is interesting that Jasarevic mentions all of these people. He even mentions
the case of torture of a 19-year-old girl in the Karavlasi village, near
Kalesija. She was held captive in a house for eight years and was a victim of
genuine horrors.

Jasarevic in his letter also confirms his theses from his video will, which is a
piece of material evidence of the B-H Prosecutor's Office. These theses pertain
to intolerance of the Americans.

As Jasarevic says in his letter, he does not find democracy acceptable. This
terrorist thinks that Europe is doomed because of democracy?!

[Box, photograph of first page of Jasarevic's letter]

"27 May 2012

"Let those who follow ALLAH's instructions find ALLAH's peace and salvation!

"Sometimes I find it objectionable when you people here call me a terrorist, but
this way the more I know who the real terrorists are. Those who still do not
want to sincerely look at both sides, they will in any case live as they see
fit. Despite that you will continue defending your friends, the real terrorists,
I would like to inform you about this. Perhaps one sincere man will open his
eyes, although eyes might see but the heart is blind.

"There is a letter that a Muslim sister sent from an Iraqi prison, and she says
candidly, 'Our wombs are being filled with the sperm of the Americans. Save us:
kill us and kill them.' But, what is important is that they are fighters for
freedom and human rights, and I pray to ALLAH to save the Muslims and
Al-Qa'idah. These terrorists and criminals are odd, because there was an English
woman who was held captive by the Taleban. She converted to Islam and lives in
England. She is a veiled Muslim woman, and she only has good things to say about
the mujaheed. Where are the women raped by the mujaheed and the so-called
terrorists?

"There are many other letters from Iraqi prisons, but I would not like to dwell
on that any longer. As for those who despite everything that is happening still
call the Americans champions of freedom and human rights, I have nothing to say
about them. Except that I beg ALLAH to guide them or to save us from friends who
are terrorists and criminals.

"The reason why I am writing to you, and this is something that you might
publish, is that many people said that my attack had harmed B-H's reputation. I
would like to ask in this regard how come no one said that Breivik harmed
Norway's reputation? In Austria you have the case of Natascha Kampusch, the case
of a man who held his daughter captive for 21 years, but no one said that this
harmed Austria's reputation. You have a Brother who killed two American soldiers
in Germany, but no one said that this harmed Germany. In Germany you have a man
who adopted a 4-year-old..."

Source: Dnevni avaz, Sarajevo, in Bosnian/Croatian/Serbian 25 Jun 12 p 9

LOAD-DATE: June 26, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2012 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              411 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                       BBC Monitoring Africa - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                             June 26, 2012 Tuesday

Paper urges Kenya to intensify security surveillance, forestall terror attacks

LENGTH: 317 words


Text of editorial entitled "Assurances on security not working very well"
published by Kenyan privately-owned newspaper Daily Nation website on 26 June

Sunday's [24 June] grenade attack in Mombasa that left at least two people dead
and scores injured exposed serious loopholes in our security system.

Only a day earlier, the American embassy had issued an alert over an imminent
attack in Mombasa. Prior to that, it had directed its nationals to leave Mombasa
and also issued a travel advisory declaring the area insecure.

The warnings should have put Kenya's security agencies on high alert. They
should have been able to pre-empt such attacks. But the government has been
unequivocal that its security intelligence and other agencies are up to the
challenge.

Mombasa has witnessed a series of deadly attacks by terror groups in recent
times, sending the wrong signal that the place is under siege. But Mombasa
cannot be described as risky per se; there are worse cases elsewhere.

This is why the government took offence with the US embassy for issuing the
travel advisory, as that is bound to deal a deadly blow on tourism, one of the
country's top foreign exchange earners.

Moreover, Kenya and the US have been collaborating on the war against terror.

Even so, the latest grenade explosion has put the county in an awkward
situation. Talk about containing terror attacks has not been matched by action.

The terrorists and their agents seem to have penetrated our systems and learnt
to comfortably live with the rest of us.

Whereas Kenya expects friendly nations to understand its predicament given the
central role it plays in fighting Al-Shabab militants in Somalia, the frequent
explosions are creating a real scare.

The authorities must intensify security surveillance, forestall attacks and
where they occur, investigate and round up the culprits.

Source: Daily Nation website, Nairobi, in English 26 Jun 12

LOAD-DATE: June 26, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2012 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              412 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                          The Daily Telegraph (London)

                             June 26, 2012 Tuesday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

Mumbai terror attack 'organiser' is arrested;
World Bulletin

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 128 words


Police in India have arrested one of the organisers of the 2008 Mumbai attacks
in which 10 Pakistani terrorists killed 166 civilians in a three-day massacre.

Detectives believe Syed Zabiuddin, an alleged member of the Pakistan-based
Lashkar-e-Taiba terrorist group, acted as a "handler" for the killers and had
coached them in the Hindi language to help them pass as locals when they arrived
in Mumbai. He is also alleged to have given live telephone instructions and
directions for the terrorists as they mounted their attacks on two five-star
hotels, a Jewish centre and commuters at the city's main railway station.

Police suspect his voice to be one of those recorded communicating with the
gunmen who killed a Rabbi and his wife who ran the Chabad House Jewish centre.

LOAD-DATE: June 26, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DTL


                  Copyright 2012 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              413 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                  Guardian.com

                             June 26, 2012 Tuesday

Mumbai terror attacks suspect arrested by Indian police

BYLINE: Helen Piddguardian.co.uk

LENGTH: 701 words

ABSTRACT

Sayed Zabiuddin Ansari is thought to have helped co-ordinate the 2008 attacks
from Pakistan using his local knowledge

FULL TEXT

A man believed to have acted as a "handler" in the Mumbai terror attacks that
left 166 dead in 2008 has been arrested by Indian police.

Sayed Zabiuddin Ansari is suspected of helping to co-ordinate the atrocities
from a base in Pakistan. Detectives think he was the sole Indian among a faction
of the Lashkar-e-Taiba (LeT) terrorist group that gave orders to the 10 gunmen
from a control room in Karachi.

New Delhi blames the group for the attacks, which stunned India and further
damaged fragile relations with its nuclear-armed neighbour Pakistan. The 10
commandos killed commuters, foreigners and wealthy Indian businessmen in the
three-day rampage, which included attacks on two luxury hotels, a Jewish centre
and a train station.

Ansari is a "vital" part of the deadly conspiracy, according to the Times of
India.

Authorities think his was the voice of a previously unidentified man who was
taped speaking by phone from Pakistan to the militants involved in the attacks
in November 2008.

Ansari is suspected of tutoring the terrorists in Hindi and using his local
knowledge to direct them around Mumbai during the attacks. According to Indian
media reports, he told the attackers to tell journalists that the "attack was a
trailer and the entire movie was yet to come".

Ansari was reportedly arrested on arrival at Delhi airport on 21 June after
being deported from Saudi Arabia at India's request. He is thought to have been
travelling on a Pakistani passport under the name Riyasat Ali. Police say he had
up to 10 aliases, including Abu Hamza and Abu Jundal.

Detectives say Ansari instructed the gunmen that, if they survived, they were to
tell investigators the attacks were revenge for the Indian government's
atrocities against Muslims and the plight of Kashmiri Muslims. According to
India's Mail Today, he also told the terrorists to claim they were Muslims from
Hyderabad's Tolichowki area in an attempt to present the atrocities as
homegrown.

Only one of the 10 gunmen emerged from the atrocity alive. There was much
confusion over Mohammad Ajmal Kasab's nationality after his arrest, but he
turned out to be Pakistani and eventually gave Ansari's name to prosecutors as
the terror group's "handler". Kasab was sentenced to death by hanging by a
special court in Mumbai in 2010 and is awaiting an execution date.

Meanwhile, India has repeatedly called on Pakistan to take action against Hafiz
Saeed, the man blamed for masterminding the Mumbai attacks. In May, the US
secretary of state, Hillary Clinton, authorised a $10m reward for information
leading to his capture.

Six Americans were killed in the atrocities. The US administration welcomed the
arrest. The state department spokeswoman Victoria Nuland told reporters: "We
have a strong interest, as we've said since the day of the attack, in the
arrest, prosecution and conviction of all those responsible for the 2008 Mumbai
attack because our own citizens were among the victims."

Peace talks between India and Pakistan have resumed since the attacks, but New
Delhi still suspects Islamabad of dragging its feet in bringing the perpetrators
to justice, a charge Pakistan denies.

Last year, the Inter-Services Intelligence Directorate (ISI), Pakistan's premier
spy agency, was implicated in the Mumbai plot by David Headley, an
American-Pakistani LeT militant who was giving evidence in a trial in the US.

Headley told Indian intelligence services he carried out the surveillance for
the Mumbai operation while working for the ISI. His claims were backed up by
Kasab, who also told prosecutors during his trial that the attacks were
conducted with the support of the ISI.

Ansari is also wanted in connection with other terrorist acts. The Mumbai joint
commissioner of police (crime), Himanshu Roy, told local reporters on Monday
that Ansari was suspected of involvement in a case from 2006, when a huge haul
of arms and explosives was found in a car in Aurangabad, Maharashtra, in western
India. He is also wanted for attacks on Mumbai trains in 2006 in which 180
people were killed, the television channel NDTV reported.

LOAD-DATE: June 26, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2012 Guardian Unlimited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              414 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                               Independent.co.uk

                       June 26, 2012 Tuesday 12:02 AM GMT

UK firm 'lost £800m to cyber attack';
Security chief warns of new terror threat and rising cost of cybercrime to
British companies

BYLINE: Kim Sengupta

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 692 words


Cyber attacks by a foreign state resulted in a British company losing £800m in
revenue, the head of MI5 revealed yesterday.

This "was not just through intellectual property loss but also from commercial
disadvantage in contractual negotiations", said Jonathan Evans. "They will not
be the only corporate victims. The extent of what is going on is astonishing,
with industrial-scale processes involving thousands of people lying behind both
state-sponsored cyber espionage and organised cyber crime."

Mr Evans said that he rebellions in the Middle East have allowed some members of
the global Islamist network created by Osama bin Laden to find bases for
exporting jihad. This, he said, was a "new and worrying development and could
get worse as events unfold".

The rare public intervention by the director-general of the Security Service
adds to the debate about the backing given by the UK, US and European states to
opposition movements which have swept away regimes across the region. Critics
suggest that it is hard-line Muslim fundamentalists, inimically hostile to the
West, rather than progressive groups, which have seized the reins of power in
the aftermath.

Giving the Lord Mayor's Lecture at London's Mansion House last night, Mr Evans
said: "Today, parts of Arab world have once again become a permissive
environment for al Qa'ida. This is the completion of a cycle - al-Qa'ida first
moved to Afghanistan due to pressure in their Arab countries of origin. They
moved to Pakistan after the fall of the Taliban; and now some are heading back
home to the Arab world again.

"A small number of British would-be jihadists are also making their way to Arab
countries to seek training and opportunities for militant activity, as they do
in Somalia and Yemen. Some will return to the UK and pose a threat here."

Large numbers of young men from the Libyan diaspora from Britain went to fight
against Muammar Gaddafi's regime in Libya. Some of them were affiliated to the
Libyan Islamic Fighting Group (LIFG) which was, at one point, allied with
al-Qa'ida. However, security sources say there is little evidence of returning
Libyan fighters becoming involved in domestic terrorist plots.

A former head of the LIFG, Abdelhakim Belhaj, is currently suing the UK
government, the former Foreign Secretary Jack Straw and Sir Mark Allen, once an
officer with MI6, over alleged complicity in his rendition by US officials.

Mr Evans continued: "The Arab Spring offers the long-term hope of a more
pluralistic, democratic and flexible system in the Arab world. If that happens
it would ease some of the pressures that have spawned extremism in the region.
So we'll have to manage the short-term risks if there is to be a longer-term
reward from the Arab Spring."

According to the Royal United Services Institute (RUSI), the UK has faced 43
credible terrorist plots since 9/11, with one deemed to be extremely serious
every year since then.

Mr Evans said: "In back rooms and in cars and on the streets there is no
shortage of individuals talking about wanting to mount terrorist attacks here.
We see them regularly in our intelligence investigations. Others in various
parts of the world have the same ambition." But he added that successful
operations have meant "we are near to reaching a form of stalemate - they
haven't stopped trying but we have got better at stopping them."

At the same time, said Mr Evans, MI5 is facing the challenge of new types of
espionage with cyber security in the forefront. The director general said the
Security Service was involved in the investigation of "cyber-compromises in over
a dozen companies and is working with many others that are potential future
targets of hostile state activity. But this is only a tiny proportion of those
affected." He added that one London listed company has lost £800m through cyber
attacks. The identity of the company cannot be disclosed for reasons of
commercial confidentiality, claim Whitehall officials.

The vast majority of state-organised cyber attacks in this country are believed
to be carried out by China and Russia, with an array of targets from weapons
manufacturers to petroleum producers.

LOAD-DATE: June 27, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBI


                  Copyright 2012 Independent News & Media plc
                              All Rights Reserved

                              415 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                   MailOnline

                       June 26, 2012 Tuesday 1:43 AM GMT

Warning over $1,000 technology which hijacks drones flying over U.S... and could
be used in terror attack

BYLINE: DAILY MAIL REPORTER

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 433 words


Ever since the September 11 attacks, the government has stepped up security at
airports in a bid to stop terrorists from repeating their feat of hijacking
commercial aeroplanes.

But officials could be ignoring another porential source of terrorist violence -
unmanned drones.

As the number of unmanned aerial vehicles (UAVs) continues to rise, security
experts have warned that they could be turned into weapons by hijackers using
electronic kits which cost as little as $1,000.

The ability to bring down drones by confusing their GPS navigation was vividly
shown when the Iranian government proudly showed off a U.S. military aircraft
which it captured in its airspace last year.

But with an increasing number of drones being operated by companies and
individuals, it is no longer necessary to break through military-level security
to hijack a UAV.

'In 5 or 10 years you have 30,000 drones in the airspace,' Professor Todd
Humphreys, of the University of Texas at Austin, told  Fox News. 'Each one of
these could be a potential missile used against us.'

Mr Humphreys says he has developed the most sophisticated 'GPS spoofer' ever
made, at a cost of just $1,000, which allows him to control any drone whose
navigation system is not encrypted.

The spoofer sends out a signal identical to that being received by the craft
from GPS satellites, but stronger, so that it takes over control of the drone.

It then sends new commands to the drone, effectively hijacking it and allowing
whoever controls the spoofer to crash the vehicle into the ground or direct it
to anywhere in the world.

The government has long been aware of the possible abuse of GPS jammers, which
stop the signal altogether and force drones to make emergency landings.

But as UAVs are expected to become commonplace for functions such as security
surveillance and package delivery, Mr Humphreys' research is forcing officials
to put up stronger safeguards.

'What if you could take down one of these drones delivering FedEx packages and
use that as your missile?', he said. 'That's the same mentality the 9/11
attackers had.'

The FAA is currently developing regulations governing the use of civilian drones
in U.S. airspace, and is expected to come up with thorough guidelines by 2015.

And Mr Humphreys is working with government officials to help ensure that
measures to combat spoofing are among the new rules.

'It just shows that the kind of mentality that we got after 9/11, where we
reinforced the cockpit door to prevent people hijacking planes - well, we need
to adopt that mentality as far as the navigation systems for these UAVs,' he
said.

LOAD-DATE: June 27, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDM


                   Copyright 2012 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              416 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                       June 26, 2012 Tuesday 7:00 AM GMT

7/7 widow Samantha Lewthwaite 'suspected in Kenya grenade attack';
Samantha Lewthwaite, the widow of one of the 7/7 bombers, is believed to have
been behind a terror attack in Kenya that killed three people as they watched
England play in the Euro Championships, it was reported last night.

BYLINE: By Raf Sanchez in Washington

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 295 words


The 28-year-old, whose husband Germaine Lindsay killed 26 people aboard a
Piccadilly Line train, is being hunted through east Africa in connection with a
foiled plot to attack hotels in Mombasa.

Kenyan police last night said that a woman matching Lewthwaite's description had
been seen near the Jericho Beer Garden shortly before a grenade attack on Sunday
night which killed three and left 25 injured.

"We suspect Samantha Lewthwaite was actively involved in the terrorist attack on
the club," a Kenyan official told the Daily Mail.

They said that the mother-of-three from Aylesbury, Bucks., had been seen with
two Arab men earlier in the evening, and that onlookers remembered her because
it was unusual to see a white woman in Islamic dress.

The trio apparently were apparently asking questions of the bar's staff and were
earlier seen near Catholic churches in Mombasa, a major tourist destination.

Lewthwaite, whose father served in the British Army, is the target of a major
international man hunt after Kenyan police accused her of plotting a wave of
against British tourists shortly before Christmas.

Scotland Yard has sent a large team to Nairobi to assist with the investigation.

They claimed that she had stored guns and bomb-making materials for al-Shabaab,
the Somali terror group, but she escaped before officers could arrest, possibly
slipping away into the chaos of Somalia.

Germaine Grant, a 29-year-old from London is currently on trial in connection
with the alleged plot.

Lewthwaite was born in Northern Ireland and converted to Islam as a teenager.
She met Lindsay in an online chatroom and the pair married in 2004.

A year later, Lindsay, 19, blew himself up on the London Underground, while his
wife was eight months pregnant with their second child.

LOAD-DATE: June 27, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTNS


                  Copyright 2012 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              417 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                      Western Morning News (Plymouth, UK)

                             June 26, 2012 Tuesday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

Norwegian terrorist 'ready to attack West'

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 17

LENGTH: 90 words


A Norwegian man has received terrorist training from al Qaida's offshoot in
Yemen and is awaiting orders to attack the West, European security officials
have warned. Western intelligence officials have long feared such a scenario: a
convert to Islam trained in terrorist methods who can blend in easily in Europe
and the United States and travel without visa restrictions. Officials from three
European security agencies confirmed yesterday that the man is "operational",
meaning he has completed his training and is about to receive a target.

LOAD-DATE: June 26, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: WMN


                 Copyright 2012 Western Morning News (Plymouth)
                              All Rights Reserved

                              418 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring South Asia - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                            June 27, 2012 Wednesday

Afghan paper back US plans to attack terror bases in Pakistan

LENGTH: 332 words


Text of an editorial in Dari entitled: "Terrorist bases on Pakistani soil should
be eliminated", published by private Afghan newspaper Arman-e Melli on 25 June

International news agencies have reported that US intelligence bodies are
looking at how to attack terrorist bases across the Durand Line and eliminate
military facilities of the terrorists on Pakistani soil.

Provision of support and organizing of the terrorists on Pakistani soil by that
country's intelligence agencies and military forces is among the issues which
have created problems for the people of Afghanistan, the region and the world.
The westerners have realized this in recent years and have come to the
conclusion that the world will not feel safe unless the international terrorists
are eliminated and their military facilities destroyed on the other side of the
Afghan border.

Experience has shown that most terrorist incidents in the region and the world
are organized in the same bases of the terrorists on Pakistani soil and that
clues finally lead to Al-Qa'idah and Taleban leaders and Pakistani generals.

Although intelligence networks of western countries are fully aware of this,
they have acted cautiously against Pakistan and ignored relations between the
Pakistani military and the international terrorists.

Now, it seems that the patience of western countries, particularly the USA, has
run out and they can no longer tolerate the existence of terrorist safe havens
on Pakistani soil.

We also believed and still believe that ensuring peace in the region and even
the world will be impossible unless the Pakistanis stop supporting the
terrorists and their safe havens are eliminated. The only way to solve the
puzzle is militarily attacking the terrorist facilities across the Durand Line.
Otherwise, the terrorists will fearlessly continue organizing and conducting
terrorist operations in the region and the world and make global security face
serious problems.

Source: Arman-e Melli, Kabul, in Dari 25 Jun 12, p 1

LOAD-DATE: June 27, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2012 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              419 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring Middle East - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                            June 27, 2012 Wednesday

"Terrorist" group attacks pro-Syrian government TV, three staff killed

LENGTH: 179 words


Text of report in English by state-run Syrian news agency SANA website

["An armed terrorist group attacks Syrian TV Al-Ikhbaria Satellite Channel,
Three Staff Martyred"]

Damascus, 27 Jun (SANA) - Three journalists and workers in the Syrian
al-Ikhbaria Satellite Channel were martyred Wednesday morning [27 June] in a
brutal terrorist attack by an armed terrorist group targeting the headquarters
of al-Ikhbaria.

The terrorists planted explosive devices in the headquarters of al-Ikhbaria
following their ransacking and destroying of the Satellite Channel studios,
including the newsroom studio which was entirely destroyed.

Al-Ikhbaria Satellite Channel, an active Syrian media means in confronting
misleading and misinformation campaigns, continued, however, its transmission
regardless of the brutal terrorist attack.

Syria has been facing a sinister campaign launched by some Arab media means,
especially the Qatari and Saudi, and western media means fabricating and
disseminating false, virtual and biased news.

Source: SANA news agency website, Damascus in English 27 Jun 12

LOAD-DATE: June 27, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2012 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              420 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                           Braintree and Witham Times

                            June 27, 2012 Wednesday

Braintree: Man's terror after nut allergy attack

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 113 words


A man who did not realise he was allergic to nuts almost died in his sleep after
suffering a reaction to nutmeg.

Miley Byrne, 24, has praised quick thinking paramedics who treated him for
anaphylactic shock after he collapsed at home just hours after eating a meal at
an Ipswich hotel restaurant.

Mr Byrne, of Challis Lane in Braintree had never previously suffered from
allergies.

He said: "I really did think I was going to die in my living room, as I was
breathing out, I could not get oxygen back in to my lungs."

Mr Byrne had eaten roast lamb with nutmeg sauce at the hotel where he was
working as a relief manager at around 11pm on May 17.

To read full story, see this week's Times.

LOAD-DATE: July 16, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2012 NewsQuest Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              421 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                      June 27, 2012 Wednesday 2:16 PM GMT

26/11 Mumbai terror attacks suspect 'confirms Pakistan role';
India's home minister on Wednesday said a key suspect in the 2008 Mumbai attacks
had provided information confirming Pakistani "state support" for the deadly
assault.

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 351 words


Abu Hamza, also known as Sayed Zabiuddin, an Indian-born member of the Pakistani
militant group Lashkar-e-Taiba, was detained at Delhi international airport on
June 21 when he arrived from the Middle East.

Indian police believe he was one of the handlers based in the Pakistani city
Karachi, who issued orders by telephone to 10 Islamist gunmen as they stormed
two luxury hotels, a Jewish centre, a restaurant and a train station in Mumbai.

The November 2008 attacks, which India has blamed on Lashkar-e-Taiba, left 166
people dead and more than 300 wounded.

Home Minister P. Chidambaram, speaking to reporters in the southern state of
Kerala, said police interrogation of Hamza had confirmed Indian accusations that
Pakistani state actors were also involved.

"The argument that non-state actors were behind the massacre is no longer valid.
He has confirmed that he was in the control room (and) this has confirmed our
suspicion that there was some organised effort," Chidambaram said.

"When I say, state actors, at the moment, I am not pointing my finger at any
particular agency.

"But clearly there was state support or state actors' support for the 26/11
massacre," the home minister said.

Pakistan has asked India to share information on Hamza and has urged New Delhi
to refrain from blaming Islamabad

"India should supply details about Abu Hamza, enabling us to take action,"
Pakistan's adviser on interior affairs, Rehman Malik, told a news conference in
Islamabad.

Pakistan can respond only after India shares information and "we see Abu Hamza's
statement," Malik said.

"Let us end the blame game ... We have to fight terrorism together," Malik
added.

Pakistan, which has firmly denied allegations that state actors were involved,
has indicted seven people for their alleged role in the attacks. Their trial,
which began in 2009, has been beset by delays.

The United States has offered a $10 million reward for information leading to
the conviction of Lashkar founder Hafiz Saeed who lives openly in Pakistan and
is accused of masterminding the Mumbai attacks.

Source: AFP

LOAD-DATE: June 28, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTNS


                  Copyright 2012 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              422 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                   MailOnline

                      June 28, 2012 Thursday 12:19 AM GMT

Saudi student found guilty for planning chemical terror attack on George W. Bush

BYLINE: JAMES NYE

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 1045 words


A Saudi man accused of planning a series of terror attacks across the U.S.
including one against former President George W. Bush was found guilty today in
a federal court in Amarillo.

Khalid Ali-M Aldawsari, who was legally in the U.S. on a student visa, was
arrested in February 2011 after federal agents secretly searched his apartment
near Texas Tech University in Lubbock and found bomb-making chemicals, wiring, a
hazmat suit and clocks.

Authorities also discovered Aldawsari's journal, handwritten in Arabic, in which
he wrote he'd been planning a terror attack in the U.S. for years and that it
was 'time for jihad,' or holy war, court documents showed.

He faces up to life in prison. Sentencing is scheduled for Oct. 9 in Amarillo.

After the jury left the courtroom Wednesday, Aldawsari, 22, sat with his
attorneys before being led off by U.S. Marshals.

His attorneys claimed that because Aldawsari didn't have a bomb made or a target
pinpointed, he couldn't have attempted to use a bomb.

'It's always disappointing when you lose but at the same time, it was a very
difficult case at the outset,' said defense attorney Dan Cogdell.

'We did the best we could under the circumstances.'

Cogdell said Aldawsari is likely to appeal the verdict at some point. He
described his client as 'the antithesis of what you'd expect him to be.'

On Feb. 1, 2011, Carolina Biological Supply of Burlington, N.C., a chemical
company, reported a suspicious $435 order by Aldawsari to the FBI.

Separately, Con-way Freight, the shipping company, notified Lubbock police and
the FBI the same day with similar suspicions because it appeared the order
wasn't intended for commercial use.

Diego G. Rodriguez, the FBI special agent in charge for the region, credited
both companies for calling authorities.

'You have our deepest and everlasting respect and gratitude for calling the FBI
when you learned that the chemicals ordered and shipped were suspicious,' said
Rodriguez.

Within weeks, federal agents had traced Aldawsari's other online purchases,
discovered extremist Internet posts and secretly searched his off-campus
apartment, computer and email accounts and read his diary, according to court
records.

President Barack Obama was notified about the plot before Aldawsari's arrest.

'Student digs:' The front of the apartment complex where Khalid Ali-M Aldawsari
lived in Lubbock, Texas. The complex also features an Army Career Centre

TNP, the chemical explosive that Aldawsari was suspected of trying to make, has
approximately the same destructive power as TNT.

FBI bomb experts said the amounts in the Aldawsari case would have yielded
almost 15 pounds of explosives - about the same amount used per bomb in the
London subway attacks that killed scores of people in July 2005.

Aldawsari entered the U.S. in October 2008 from Riyadh, Saudi Arabia, to study
chemical engineering at Texas Tech, then transferred in early 2011 to nearby
South Plains College, where he was studying business.

A Saudi industrial company was paying his tuition and living expenses in the
U.S.

Jurors spent Wednesday deliberating Aldawsari's case after being instructed by
the judge that they had to decide he took a 'substantial step' towards an
attack.

Aldawsari's attorney, Dan Cogdell, said in his closing argument Wednesday that
prosecutors didn't present evidence that showed his client came close to
threatening anyone.

'They've played the game of 'Fear Factor,'  said Cogdell of prosecutors. 'Let's
scare them. Let's tell them about what could have happened.'

Prosecutors said they had shown that Aldawsari had taken several substantial
steps. Witnesses have testified that Aldawsari tried to order a chemical used to
make explosives and had instructional videos in his Lubbock apartment.

On the hit list: George W. Bush's home in the well-heeled Dallas suburb in
Dallas, Texas

'It just didn't happen overnight, on impulse,' said prosecutor Jeffrey Haag
earlier on Wednesday.

'This is something Mr. Aldawsari has been planning for a very, very, very long
time.'

Prosecutors say the former Texas Tech chemical engineering student created a
target list that included former President George W. Bush's home in Dallas.

Another prosecutor, Denise Williams, argued Wednesday that Aldawsari had been
inspired to pursue 'jihad' - holy war - after Sept. 11, when he was a boy
growing up in Saudi Arabia.

In his sights: The homes of former president George W. Bush and his wife Laura
were allegedly studied by bomb plot suspect

Prosecutors capped three days of testimony Tuesday by playing a recording of
Aldawsari saying he'd get 'maximum satisfaction' and would be 'smiling' after
carrying out a terror attack in the U.S.

Cogdell presented no evidence or witnesses before resting Tuesday, but accused
prosecutors of trying to substitute facts with prejudice.

'And frankly, that's easy to do when there's so much prejudice,' said Cogdell.
'But prejudice does not make up for the absence of evidence.'

Federal agents secretly searched Aldawsari's apartment and hid microphones
therein that they say captured him speaking out loud the night before his Feb.
23, 2011, arrest. Authorities said that Aldawsari was alone when he was
recorded.

In the recording, Aldawsari says Americans deserved the attacks of Sept. 11,
2001, and must die 'because you people deserve it' for causing the deaths of
others.

Federal agents also say they found almost everything needed to build a bomb,
including chemicals, beakers, flasks, wiring, a hazmat suit and clocks, which he
had bought online.

A car allegedly owned by Aldawsari, parked at his apartment complex in Texas.
The 20-year-old student is due in court for the first time Friday to face terror
charges

Authorities say they were tipped to Aldawsari's online purchases by chemical
company Carolina Biological Supply of Burlington, N.C., and shipping company
Con-way Freight on Feb. 1, 2011.

The chemical company reported a suspicious $435 purchase to the FBI, and the
shipping company notified Lubbock police and the FBI because it appeared the
order wasn't intended for commercial use.

Court documents say Aldawsari wrote in Arabic in his journal that he had been
planning a terror attack in the U.S. even before he came to the country on a
scholarship, and that it was 'time for jihad.'

LOAD-DATE: June 29, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDM


                   Copyright 2012 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              423 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                       June 28, 2012 Thursday 5:53 PM GMT

Two Muslim converts arrested over Olympic terror plot;
Two Muslim converts have been arrested in East London on suspicion of plotting a
terrorist attack.

BYLINE: By Duncan Gardham

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 305 words


Sources said the arrests were based on a tip-off and the investigation was at an
early stage.

One source said it was unclear if the alleged plot was serious or developed or
what method of attack was to be used but said the Olympics could have been the
target.

The two men, aged 18 and 32, were arrested at separate residential addresses in
east London, according to Scotland Yard.

A spokesman said officers from the Metropolitan Police Counter-Terrorism
Command, known as SO15, raided the properties at 7am on Thursday morning.

The men were detained under the Terrorism Act 2000 on suspicion of the
commission, preparation or instigation of acts of terrorism.

They are currently being held at a central London police station, likely to be
the counter-terrorism holding cells at Paddington Green.

Scotland Yard and MI5 act on tips far quicker in the lead up to major events
than they would do at other times.

The security services accept that any plotting that takes place in the lead up
to the Olympics, which begin in Stratford, East London on July 27, is likely to
be linked to the games.

Two years ago six street cleaners were arrested over an alleged plot to kill the
Pope the day before he arrived in London after they were overheard threatening
to kill a Christian for every page of the Koran.

A caller reported that five men were looking at a picture in the Metro newspaper
of the Pope's motor vehicle and talking about an incident where the Koran was
allegedly burned.

All six were later released without charge.

Earlier this year two men from East London were among a gang that pleaded guilty
to plotting a bomb attack on the London Stock Exchange.

Mohammed Chowdhury, 21, and Shah Rahman, 29, were under surveillance as they
toured central London sites for six hours in November 2010 and discussed
launching the attacks.

LOAD-DATE: June 29, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTNS


                  Copyright 2012 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              424 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                       June 28, 2012 Thursday 6:24 AM GMT

Bee stings killed as many in UK as terrorists, says watchdog;
Bee stings kill as many people in Britain as terrorist attacks do, according to
a report by a Government watchdog who claims the risk from extremists has fallen
"markedly" in recent years.

BYLINE: By Martin Beckford Home Affairs Editor

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 717 words


David Anderson said that no one has even been injured by an Islamist in this
country for more than two years, while the number of convictions has dropped to
a "handful".

As a result he suggested that ministers could relax some anti-terror laws
without endangering public safety, such as by allowing terror suspects to apply
for bail or making it harder to ban certain groups.

Mr Anderson, a barrister who serves as the Independent Reviewer of Terrorism
Legislation, also congratulated the Coalition for scrapping tough stop and
search powers and halving the maximum detention time for suspects to 14 days.

But he added that the "almost incessant" creation of new legislation since 9/11
has left counter-terrorism laws "bitty, messy" and hard to understand.

His optimistic view of the domestic security situation contrasts with that
described by the head of MI5 earlier this week. Jonathan Evans, the Director
General of the Security Service, warned that the Arab Spring has spawned a new
generation of British terrorists while cyber attacks are damaging companies in
the "real world".

In his annual report, published on Wednesday,  Mr Anderson wrote: "Whatever its
cause, the reduction of risk in relation to al-Qaida terrorism in the United
Kingdom is real and has been sustained for several years now."

He said the situation has improved "markedly" since the middle of the last
decade, when Britain suffered the atrocity of 7/7 as well as the failed 21/7
attacks and the foiled fertiliser bomb and airline liquid bomb plots.

The watchdog said no one has been injured by a terrorist in this country since
May 2010 when the Labour MP Stephen Timms was stabbed in his constituency
surgery by Roshonara Choudhry, while there was not a single al-Qaida attack in
Europe throughout 2011.

He pointed out that last summer the threat level in Britain was lowered from
severe to substantial, while the same year saw the deaths of Osama Bin Laden and
Anwar al-Awlaki.

There was "only one" serious conviction of a terrorist in a British court, that
of a British Airways IT specialist, while terrorism arrests fell to 121 in the
year to March 2011, "by far" the lowest number since the Twin Towers fell.

Discussing the suggestions that the threat from terrorism is over-estimated, Mr
Anderson wrote: "During the 21st century, terrorism has been an insignificant
cause of mortality in the United Kingdom. The annualised average of five deaths
caused by terrorism in England and Wales over this period compares with total
accidental deaths in 2010 of 17,201, including 123 cyclists killed in traffic
accidents, 102 personnel killed in Afghanistan, 29 people drowned in the bathtub
and five killed by stings from hornets, wasps and bees."

He added that the threat is sometimes "exaggerated for political or commercial
purposes", but warned against complacency and said that terrorists would inflict
more death, injury and fear if permitted.

Mr Anderson said the Home Secretary currently has "extraordinarily wide
discretion" to proscribe groups believed to be involved in terrorism, and that
sometimes organisations are banned as a "cheap" way of giving a "propaganda"
victory to a foreign government.

He claimed that such bans can have a "chilling effect" on communities who then
fear even to hold meetings or display their flags, and raised the prospect that
bans on groups should lapse after two years. However he also added that
far-right organisations could be outlawed as well as ones linked to al-Qaida.

Mr Anderson also said it is hard to justify the total ban on terror suspects
applying for bail, given that even subjects of deportation cases and alleged
murders and rapists can do so.

In a strong criticism of Labour's tough anti-terror laws, he said the wide power
given to police to stop and search people and vehicles was the "single greatest
focus of resentment among Muslims" and did not lead to a single conviction.

The watchdog said he had not found much "nostalgia" for the now-scrapped power
among police, and would himself not lament its demise.

"There is always a political risk in scaling back powers designed to protect the
public. By taking that step, the Coalition Government is to be congratulated for
delivering on its rhetoric and making a genuine 'correction in favour of
liberty'."

LOAD-DATE: June 29, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTNS


                  Copyright 2012 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              425 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring South Asia - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                              June 29, 2012 Friday

Pakistan: Sindh-based party chief condemns terror attack on pilgrims' bus

LENGTH: 188 words


Text of report published by Pakistani newspaper Pakistan Observer website on 29
June

Karachi -- Muttahida Qaumi Movement [MQM] founder and Chief Altaf Hussain has
strongly condemned the armed terrorists' bomb attack on the bus carrying
pilgrims in Hazara Gangi area of Quetta.

Expressing his grief and sorrow over the loss of innocent people, the MQM chief
said that the armed terrorists involved in the attack on the pilgrims are the
country's enemy and they are out to kill innocent people to achieve their
nefarious designs.

In fact, these armed terrorists, who have no fear of God, are bent upon letting
bloodshed in the country, he added.

Lashing out at the armed terrorists for killing innocent pilgrims in the bomb
blast, he demanded of President Asif Ali Zardari, prime minister Raja Pervez
Ashraf and Balochistan's chief minister, Aslam Raisani, to take a strong notice
of the armed terrorists' cowardice act.

He also urged the President, PM and Balochistan's CM to arrest the armed
terrorists involved in the most heinous crime and give them exemplary
punishment.

Source: The Pakistan Observer, Islamabad, in English 29 Jun 12

LOAD-DATE: June 29, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2012 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              426 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                       BBC Monitoring Africa - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                             June 30, 2012 Saturday

Kenyan coastal city braces for future terror attacks

LENGTH: 735 words


Text of report by Nairobi-based online news service of UN regional information
network IRIN on 29 June; subheadings as published

Mombasa, 29 June 2012 (IRIN) - Following three grenade attacks in recent months
and a US "terror" alert, residents of the coastal Kenyan city of Mombasa are
bracing themselves for the possibility of future attacks; local leaders are
working towards better disaster preparedness and improvements in the emergency
services.

Three people lost their lives after a grenade attack on a bar in the Mshomoroni
area of Mombasa on the night of 24 June, a day after the US issued a warning of
an imminent attack. One person was killed and several injured in a suspected
grenade attack on 15 May at a Mombasa sports bar; two grenade attacks in the
city on 31 March left at least 15 injured.

There have also been a spate of attacks in the capital, Nairobi, and
northeastern areas of the country since Kenya invaded southern Somalia in
October 2011 to help stamp out the radical Islamist group, Al-Shabab.

"We here in Mombasa had never thought that one day we will have to handle
situations such as this. However, now that the reality is here with us, we have
no option but to find ways of dealing with it," said James Mureu, chairman of
the Kenya National Chamber of Commerce and Industry for Mombasa County. "There
is a need, for example, to come up with a disaster preparedness committee that
would specifically deal with the terror threats. And that indeed, is what we
should be planning to do in collaboration with other like-minded stakeholders
living in this town."

Among other things, a disaster-preparedness committee would liaise with
emergency services to ensure they are fully equipped and train members of the
public on the correct response to explosions and other disasters.

Emergency services

According to Nelly Muluka, communications manager at the Kenya Red Cross
society, one of the biggest problems in the immediate aftermath of an attack is
crowd control.

"Our staff on ground usually find it extremely hard sometimes to administer the
required services as a result of pushing and shoving from the crowd who gather
around these scenes seconds after disaster," she said. "It would be even more
catastrophic if another grenade is hurled onto the gathering or yet [another]
explosion goes off," she added.

And while the Red Cross says it has enough trained paramedics and ambulances to
deal with similar incidents in the future and is training more trauma
counsellors, there is a shortage of health workers at the city's public
hospitals, and there is a need to boost blood donations in preparation for
similar emergencies.

"All casualties in such disasters are always rushed to the [Coast] General
Hospital, and with that in mind, we always recall our staff either on leave or
off-duty to report to work, depending on how big the disaster would be," said
Anisa Omar, the provincial director of public health and sanitation.

"Blood for casualties, however, is usually not sufficient."

More police patrols

The police, meanwhile, have stepped up their monitoring of the city and its
suburbs, with uniformed and plain clothes officers patrolling the streets and
crowded areas such as market places, public beaches and the ferry service.

"Our intelligence officers are on high alert... we are burning the midnight
oil," said provincial police chief Aggrey Adoli.

Bars and restaurant owners are enhancing security in their premises by hiring
security personnel from private firms and purchasing security sensors to scan
patrons entering their premises.

"I decided not only to install a first aid kit but also came up with write-ups
in all my premises on how patrons can avoid severe injuries or save themselves
altogether in case of an attack," said Robert Ocholla, who owns a chain of
restaurants in Mombasa.

According to Sam Ikwaye, outgoing chairman of the Mombasa chapter of the Pubs,
Entertainment and Restaurant Association of Kenya, the upswing in demand for
security gadgets has allowed some unscrupulous business people to put
counterfeit sensors on the market.

"There has been a rush in buying the security gadgets, thus making some
unscrupulous shopkeepers to take advantage and to sell fake machines to
unsuspecting businessmen," he said. "We have now advised our members where they
can purchase effective ones."

Source: UN Integrated Regional Information Network, Nairobi, in English 29 Jun
12

LOAD-DATE: June 30, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2012 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              427 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                                 Worcester News

                             June 30, 2012 Saturday

Disabled couple's arson attack terror

BYLINE: Sarah Davies

SECTION: 001 NEWS LATEST WORCESTER

LENGTH: 274 words


A VULNERABLE couple say they fear for their safety after burning paper was
deliberately put through their door.

Anthony and Tina Simpson, who both suffer from disabilities and health problems,
were watching television at their home in Cranham Drive, Warndon, Worcester,
when a neighbour found flames coming from their letterbox.

The lit paper was safely snuffed out and no one was hurt, but police are
treating the incident, which happened at about 9.45pm on Monday, as attempted
arson.

Mr Simpson said he couldn't understand why anyone would do such a thing.

"We didn't know about it until our next-door neighbour found it burning and came
round," said the 42-year-old. "Our neighbours have gone mad about it. We're
worried just in case it happens again."

Mrs Simpson, aged 44, said they had been left shaken by the attack.

She said: "We don't feel safe here now. I'm worried about my cat because we
haven't seen her since. The area's gone down. We don't go out much now. I still
feel a bit nervous."

Sgt Jill Fowler, of West Mercia Police , said she was "very concerned" about why
someone would target the couple in this way.

She said: "The fire could have been far worse if not for the quick actions of a
neighbour and we need to find the person responsible for trying to start the
fire. I would like to hear from anyone who may have been in the area on Monday
evening and may have seen anything suspicious or anyone who may have information
about who was behind the arson attempt."

Information can be given to Sgt Fowler by calling the non-emergency police
number 101 or Crimestoppers anonymously on 0800 555111, quoting incident number
893-S-250612.

LOAD-DATE: July 16, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2012 NewsQuest Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              428 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                                Scottish Express

                              July 1, 2012 Sunday
                                   Edition 1;
                                    Scotland

Terrorist attack was my worst half-hour in 35 years of service

BYLINE: Greg Christison

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 24

LENGTH: 548 words


ONE of the first firefighters to reach Glasgow Airport during the 2007 terror
attack yesterday recalled the "worst and most tense" incident of his 35-year
career.

Speaking on the fifth anniversary of the incident, Dave Adam recalled how a dark
green Jeep Cherokee, loaded with propane canisters, was driven into the glass
doors of the terminal building and set alight.

The speedy actions of the emergency services and airport personnel meant
multiple deaths were avoided, and the bravery of Mr Adam's team was recognised
by a permanent exhibit in Strathclyde Fire and Rescue's new museum which opened
last week.

Mr Adam, 59, said his men risked their lives rushing to extinguish flames and
clear the smoke-filled passenger hub in the immediate aftermath of the attempted
mass murder.

The former group manager, who has since retired from firefighting, explained how
they sprung into action once it became clear just how serious the incident was.

He said: "The fire was travelling along the canopy, and if it had continued to
spread, the whole terminal would have been lost.

"So we had to fight the fire in the close vicinity of these potentially
explosive cylinders. It took the firefighters half an hour to search every nook,
cranny and cupboard.

"After they searched the building from top to bottom and the last firefighter
declared the building was clear, it was not only a relief for me that there were
no casualties, but also that my firefighters had got out safely.

"When we got there we managed to extinguish the fire very quickly and stop the
cylinders from exploding.

"I can say without any shadow of contradiction that was the worst and most tense
half-hour of my 35 years in the fire brigade.

"Had it been left for a few more minutes, it would have been a scene of utter
devastation. But due to the heroic efforts of our firefighters on the scene that
didn't happen."

Two men were detained at the scene, including the vehicle driver, Indian-born
Kafeel Ahmed, 28, who later died in hospital of the burns he sustained in the
attack.

His co-accused, 31-year-old Bilal Abdullah was eventually found guilty of
conspiracy to commit murder and sentenced to the minimum of 32 years in prison.
They were both also linked to two failed car-bomb plots in London's West End
just days earlier.

Another two men, Dr Mohammed Asha, a Jordanian neurologist working with the NHS,
and Sabeel Ahmed, the brother of Kafeel, were also implicated in the incident.

While Dr Asha was found not guilty, Sabeel was jailed for 18 months for
withholding information about the attack, and was later deported to India.

The Glasgow Airport attack is one of many exhibits in the new museum in
Greenock, Inverclyde, commemorating the fire service's history and heritage.

Mr Adam, curator of the centre, was instrumental in putting the display together
and spent years researching the work carried out by the force over decades.

The museum, in the town's Dalrymple Street, is run by volunteers and also
features other major incidents dealt with by Strathclyde Fire and Rescue.

A major element of the heritage centre is its showcasing of the changes in
technology and equipment from the first breathing apparatus and hand-drawn pumps
to their modern day equivalent.? For more information, visit
www.strathclydefirepreservationgroup.org

LOAD-DATE: July 1, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: MEMORIES: Dave Adam, curator of the new Strathclyde Fire and Rescue
museum
Picture: JAMES WILLIAMSON
CHAOS: Glasgow Airport burns after the car loaded with gas canisters crashed
into the terminal building

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: SXPscot


                       Copyright 2012 Express Newspapers
                              All Rights Reserved

                              429 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                           The Sunday Times (London)

                              July 1, 2012 Sunday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

Al-Qaeda 'to bomb US plane';
'Clean skin' Norwegian primed for terror attack on West

BYLINE: David Leppard; Iona Craig

SECTION: NEWS; FRONT PAGE; Pg. 1,3

LENGTH: 538 words


AL-QAEDA is plotting a terrorist attack on an American airliner in the run-up to
the Olympics, according to intelligence sources.

Al-Qaeda in the Arabian Peninsula (AQAP) has recruited a Norwegian convert at a
training camp in Yemen. The group is understood to have selected a target,
believed to be a US passenger jet. News of the plot confirms fears among
American and British intelligence agencies that Al-Qaeda is seeking to recruit
radicalised westerners in an attempt to evade airport security.

The plot is the group's fourth to be detected since 2009, when AQAP sent a
Nigerian-born British student on a plane with an underpants bomb. The bomb
failed to detonate over Detroit and the man was arrested and jailed. In 2010, it
sent two bombs hidden in printer cartridges on cargo planes destined for
Chicago. They were intercepted and defused in Dubai and Britain.

A third plot was averted two months ago when a British undercover agent, who had
infiltrated AQAP, volunteered to be a suicide bomber. He smuggled out the latest
version of the underpants bomb to US authorities.

The intelligence officials said the latest plot was not specifically targeted at
the Olympics and should be seen in the context of Al-Qaeda's continuing
ambitions to blow up US planes.

"There is terrorist plotting going on irrespective of the Olympics. The only
thing that connects this to the Olympics is the fact that they are about to
happen," said a Whitehall official.

AQAP has no history of targeting Britain. However, that did not mean British
citizens were not at risk. "If you are blowing up aeroplanes you are likely to
be killing Brits or having a big impact on the European or British economy. [So
it] would in effect be an attack against Britain," the official said.

Another official added: "AQAP have traditionally done America, and that hasn't
changed. But as we saw with the [printer] bomb, we could easily be collateral."

The Norwegian recruit goes under the Islamic name of Muslim Abu Abdurrahman. He
is understood to be in his thirties and a "clean skin", with no previous
criminal record. He converted in 2008 and quickly became radicalised. He later
travelled to Yemen, where he has spent several months, to complete his training.

The man was believed to have been in the southeastern town of Azzan, the
longtime home of AQAP, until last month. He then moved to Dammaj, a town in the
north. It was reported last week that two British Muslim men from a mosque in
west London had been killed fighting alongside Islamists in the area.

Officials said the intelligence accords with a rare speech last week by Jonathan
Evans, the head of MI5. He highlighted concerns over the pipeline of home-grown,
radicalised Muslims travelling to terrorist training camps in Yemen, Somalia and
the African Sahel.

Evans said the destination of such recruits had shifted in recent years from
Afghanistan and Pakistan, where the West has succeeded in disrupting Al-Qaeda's
core command.

British intelligence officials last week declined to disclose further details of
the plot, its timing, target or indeed how they had come to discover it. Neither
would they comment on what measures they were taking to try to avert it.

Additional reporting: Iona Craig, Yemen

LOAD-DATE: July 1, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: STS


                    Copyright 2012 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              430 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                           The Sunday Times (London)

                              July 1, 2012 Sunday
                                   Edition 1;
                                    Scotland

'Clean skin' Norwegian primed for terror attack on West

BYLINE: David Leppard

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 371 words


AL-QAEDA is plotting a terrorist attack on an American airliner in the run-up to
the Olympics, according to intelligence sources.

Al-Qaeda in the Arabian Peninsula (AQAP) has recruited a Norwegian convert at a
training camp in Yemen. The group is understood to have selected a target,
believed to be a US passenger jet. News of the plot confirms fears among
American and British intelligence agencies that Al-Qaeda is seeking to recruit
radicalised westerners in an attempt to evade airport security.

The plot is the group's fourth to be detected since 2009, when AQAP sent a
Nigerian-born British student on a plane with an underpants bomb. The bomb
failed to detonate over Detroit and the man was arrested and jailed. In 2010, it
sent two bombs hidden in printer cartridges on cargo planes destined for
Chicago. They were intercepted and defused in Dubai and Britain.

A third plot was averted two months ago when a British agent, who had
infiltrated AQAP, volunteered to be a suicide bomber. He smuggled out the latest
version of the underpants bomb to US authorities.

The intelligence officials said the latest plot was not specifically targeted at
the Olympics but should be seen in the context of Al-Qaeda's ambitions to blow
up US planes. AQAP has no history of targeting Britain, but this did not mean
British citizens were not at risk.

The Norwegian recruit goes under the Islamic name of Muslim Abu Abdurrahman. He
is understood to be in his thirties and a "clean skin", with no previous
criminal record. He converted in 2008 and quickly became radicalised. He later
travelled to Yemen, where he has spent several months, to complete his training.
The man was believed to have been in the southeastern town of Azzan, the
longtime home of AQAP, until last month. He then moved to Dammaj, a town in the
north.

Officials said the intelligence accords with a rare speech last week by Jonathan
Evans, the head of MI5. He highlighted concerns over the pipeline of home-grown,
radicalised Muslims travelling to terrorist training camps in Yemen, Somalia and
the African Sahel.

British intelligence officials last week declined to disclose further details of
the plot, or how they discovered it.

Additional reporting: Iona Craig, Yemen

LOAD-DATE: July 1, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: STSscot


                    Copyright 2012 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              431 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring South Asia - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                              July 2, 2012 Monday

Detained militant in India says Al-Qa'idah trained terrorists for Mumbai attacks

LENGTH: 549 words


Text of report headlined "Jundal claims Al-Qa'idah trained 26/11 hit squad"
published by Indian newspaper The Asian Age website on 2 July

New Delhi: In what might explain the increased American interest in arrested
terrorist Abu Jundal, he made the startling disclosure to interrogators recently
that the 26/11 terrorists were trained by hardcore Al-Qa'idah militants at a
Lashkar-i-Toiba camp near the Pakistan-Iran border.

Jundal, the highest ranking Indian commander of LeT, claimed there was a "great
degree of coordination now between Lashkar, Al-Qa'idah and even the Taleban".
These disclosures are part of Jundal's interrogation report, details of which
have been accessed by this newspaper.

A top government functionary said that since the United States now views Lashkar
to be as much of a threat as the Taleban and Al-Qa'idah, it has been keeping
close tabs on all developments related to Jundal. "The US agencies are very keen
to know if Jundal can provide more details about Al-Qa'idah and the Taliban,"
the official added.

The external affairs and home ministries are, meanwhile, busy finalizing
documents to secure the extradition of Mohammed Fasih, whose arrest in Saudi
Arabia has been confirmed. Fasih is wanted for the Chinaswamy Stadium blast in
Bengaluru and the Jama Masjid attack in Delhi. Sources said the government will
try to get the Saudis to deport Fasih even faster than Jundal.

The LeT operative, Abu Jundal, told a joint multiagency team during sustained
questioning that since Lashkar did not want to leave anything to chance for the
Mumbai terror attack, it decided to rope in Al-Qa'idah for training.

The LeT felt that hardcore Al-Qa'idah terrorists could provide foolproof
training to the module used to attack Mumbai. Initially, sources said, there
were 22 to 25 militants in the group that was to attack Mumbai. But since
Al-Qa'idah's training was so intense that more than half of them dropped out and
only 10 were selected for the final onslaught.

"Had all the 25 militants completed the training and made it to Mumbai the
carnage would have been much worse," a senior investigating official said.

Finally, a module of 10 terrorist attacked Mumbai in what is viewed as the worst
terror strike in independent India. Jundal claims that though he did visit
Lashkar's training facility at the Pakistan-Iran border but he was not present
during the time that the Mumbai module was undergoing training there.

Indian investigating agencies asked Jundal to identify the exact location of
this camp with help of Google map but Jundal failed to do so, sources added.

Meanwhile, both the ministries of external affairs and home are finalising the
documents for the extradition of Fasih Mahmood following the confirmation of his
arrest in Saudi Arabia.

Fasih is wanted in the blast at Chinaswamy Stadium at Bengaluru and the Jama
Masjid attack. Sources said the government will try and deport Fasih much like
Jundal as it is much faster.

The Indian embassy in Riyadh is in constant touch with the Saudi justice
ministry giving them details about Fasih's involvement in terror cases in India.

India has also impressed upon Saudi Arabia the urgent need for Fasih's legal
custody to conclude investigations into these cases.

Source: The Asian Age website, Delhi, in English 02 Jul 12

LOAD-DATE: July 2, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2012 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              432 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring South Asia - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                              July 2, 2012 Monday

Pakistan editorial says US drone attacks "worst" form of terrorism

LENGTH: 381 words


Text of editorial headlined "The terrorism of drones" published by Pakistani
newspaper Pakistan Observer website on 2 July

Punjab Chief Minister Mian Shahbaz Sharif has said that there was little
difference between terrorism and US drone attacks because innocent people are
being killed in these incidents. Speaking at the E-Bars document distribution
ceremony for various Punjab Bar Associations in Lahore, the chief minister
rightly made a comparison of the drone attacks and the acts of terrorism, which
Pakistan has been facing today, and causing immense problems for the people and
the government.

But in our view, drone attacks are more condemnable form of terrorism because
these are state sponsored and people are targeted by state functionaries, which
is a crime against humanity. Drone attacks started by US in 2005 have so far
killed thousands of people in addition to injuries to many more and they also
created anti American feelings in Pakistan creating difficulties for the
country's security forces to stabilize the situation along the Durand Line
[border across Afghanistan]. Another aspect of the drone attacks is that they
trample the sovereignty of Pakistan, which the people of Pakistan can no longer
endure. Though the drone attacks killed some of the key Al-Qa'idah fighters but
they caused more deaths of innocent tribal people and as a result those losing
their near and dear ones are being persuaded by the militants to join their
ranks and take revenge. Pakistan has repeatedly stressed that the US must
provide it with the technology and share intelligence to deal with elements
involved in terrorism on its side of the border so that there was no collateral
damage but the sole super power is looking at the use of drones with its own
spectacles. Drone attacks are one of the contentious issues that are hurdles in
restoration of NATO supplies through ground routes and as a result the US is
suffering huge expenses by supplying its troops through alternate routes. We
would therefore emphasize that the US must listen to the calls of Pakistani
leaders and stop using drones against what it calls terrorists, because they are
also killing unarmed civilians, which is the worst form of terrorism.

Source: Pakistan Observer website, Islamabad, in English 02 Jul 12

LOAD-DATE: July 2, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2012 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              433 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                       BBC Monitoring Africa - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                              July 2, 2012 Monday

US president condemns terror attacks in Kenya

LENGTH: 415 words


Text of unattributed report entitled "Obama condemns Garissa attacks" published
by Kenyan privately-owned newspaper Daily Nation website on 2 July

United States President Barack Obama has condemned Sunday's [1 July] terror
attacks in Kenya that killed at least 14 and left 66 others seriously injured.

In a statement released Monday by the White House press secretary, the US called
for speedy justice on the perpetrators of the recent spate of terror attacks
along Kenya's coastal and the north east regions.

"The attacks on two churches in Garissa [northeastern Kenya] follow shortly
after the killing of one aid worker and the kidnapping of four others in Dadaab
refugee camp this week, as well as an attack on a nightclub in Mombasa last
weekend.

"The perpetrators of these attacks have shown no respect for human life and
dignity, and must be brought to justice for these heinous acts," the statement
from White House said.

The statement came moments after a section of Muslims youths in Nairobi reacted
angrily to the blasts in Garissa and said the incident was a blot in their
image.

Those interviewed by [Daily] Nation said they are slowly being treated with
disdain by fellow Kenyans.

"Wherever you go, people look at you suspiciously. The perception that muslim
youths are Al-Shabab is a bad tag and it threatens our search for livelihood,"
said Jamal Mohamed, 23.

Mohamed Osman, an IT student in Nairobi, said the fact that the attacks target
innocent people is bad enough.

"Why kill innocent people. People who are worshipping? I do not know what one
would ever gain from that, both on earth and in heaven," said Osman, 26.

Other youths lamented that by taking the religious angle, the attacks were
likely to cause tension between Muslims and Christians.

"We assure Christians that we should not be divided on religious lines. Someone
is out to create a big wedge between us with a very ill motive," said Yusuf
Mohamed, 22.

Yusuf casted aspersion at the coordinated manner in which the attacks seemed to
have occurred.

"The other day, someone said there will be an attack in Mombasa. It happened. It
means some people are aware of these attacks in advance," he said.

Although Saadaq Farah, 25, feels safe in Nairobi, he was worried someone was
keen to set fellow Kenyans against each other.

"Every time a blast occurs, we (Muslim youths) experience a problem interacting
with other Kenyans. We know nothing about these criminals," he said.

Source: Daily Nation website, Nairobi, in English 2 Jul 12

LOAD-DATE: July 2, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2012 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              434 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                       BBC Monitoring Africa - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                              July 3, 2012 Tuesday

AU condemns terrorist attack in Kenya

LENGTH: 135 words


Text of report in English by state-owned Ethiopian news agency ENA website

Addis Ababa, 2 July: The African Union Commission chairperson, Dr Jean Ping,
strongly condemned the terrorist attacks perpetrated against churches in town of
Garissa, in the Northern Eastern Province of Kenya, which killed a number of
worshippers, AU said.

According to a press release AU sent to ENA [Ethiopian News Agency] on Monday [2
July], the chairperson expressed AU's condolences to the bereaved families and
to the Kenyan government.

Ping reaffirmed AU's continued support to the efforts of the Kenyan government
in the fight against terrorism.

The chairperson also called for further enhancing the African counter-terrorism
cooperation in line with all the AU relevant instruments.

Source: ENA website, Addis Ababa, in English 2 Jul 12

LOAD-DATE: July 3, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2012 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              435 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                 BBC Monitoring Former Soviet Union - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                              July 3, 2012 Tuesday

Russia's Dagestan suffers over 100 terror attacks in past six months

LENGTH: 175 words


Text of report by corporate-owned Russian news agency Interfax

Makhachkala, 3 July: As many as 116 crimes of a terrorist nature have been
committed from 1 January to 1 July 2012 in Dagestan and claimed lives of 67
people, a source from the Interior Ministry for the republic told Interfax
referring to the agency's data.

The source said that as a result of special operations and clashes during the
same period 100 members of illegal armed formations had been killed, 94
militants and their accomplices detained and three more militants surrendered to
the authorities.

According to the Interior Ministry for Dagestan, 102 attempts have been made on
the lives of law-enforcement officers. "As a result, there have died 41 police
officers (107 injured), five Federal Security Service officers (seven injured),
10 Interior Troops officers (18 injured), an officer of the prosecution, three
Emergencies Ministry officers (three injured) and seven civilians (75 injured),
" the interlocutor said.

Source: Interfax news agency, Moscow, in Russian 0649 gmt 3 Jul 12

LOAD-DATE: July 3, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2012 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              436 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                       BBC Monitoring Africa - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                              July 3, 2012 Tuesday

UN chief, Muslim clerics condemn terrorist attack in Kenya

LENGTH: 262 words


Text of report by Galgalo Bocha entitled "Muslim clerics, UN boss condemn
Garissa grenade attacks" published by Kenyan privately-owned newspaper Daily
Nation website on 3 July

The Council of Imams and Preachers in Kenya and the United Nations have
condemned the Garissa [northeastern Kenya] grenade attacks.

Shaykh Hassan Omar said Tuesday [3 July] the terrorists who carried out the
heinous attacks were out to cause religious war in Kenya.

The Muslim clerics asked the government to conduct a thorough probe and arrest
the attackers.

Mr Omar accused Somalia militia Al-Shabab of being desperate to create a
Nigerian style of religious chaos in Kenya.

"But Kenyans who have lived peacefully for more than 40 years will continue to
live as one united citizens," he told reporters in Garissa.

At the same time, UN Secretary-General Ban Ki-moon condemned the terrorist
attacks on two churches on Sunday that resulted in the deaths of 17 people.

"These attacks, which deliberately targeted places of worship, are reprehensible
and criminal," said Mr Ban.

"No cause can justify the indiscriminate targeting of civilians. The
perpetrators of these attacks, and of other recent terrorist acts in Kenya, must
be held to account."

Mr Ban sent condolence messages to the families of the victims, the government
and Kenyans.

On Sunday, several hooded men attacked worshippers at the African Inland Church
(AIC) and Our Lady of Consolata Catholic Church. The attackers hurled grenades
into the churches and opened fire indiscriminately.

Source: Daily Nation website, Nairobi, in English 3 Jul 12

LOAD-DATE: July 3, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2012 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              437 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                            Belfast Telegraph Online

                        July 3, 2012 Tuesday 4:55 AM GMT

German spy chief quits over neo-Nazi investigation scandal;
Government agents destroyed files on far-right terrorist cell behind murderous
attacks on immigrants

BYLINE: By Tony Paterson in Berlin

SECTION: WORLD NEWS

LENGTH: 767 words


The head of German intelligence was forced to resign yesterday amid explosive
revelations that his agents deliberately destroyed and manipulated files
containing information about a neo-Nazi terror cell behind the country's worst
far-right violence since the Second World War.

Heinz Fromm, 63, said he took responsibility for the actions of staff who
shredded seven intelligence documents, left out key information from computer
files and lied to their superiors at the height of an inquiry into neo-Nazi
terrorists last November.

Mr Fromm, who resigned after 12 years at the helm of the Federal Office for the
Protection of the Constitution, said the actions of the agents involved were
unprecedented. "Nothing like this has ever occurred before during my tenure," he
said. "It is a major breach of trust and hugely damaging to the reputation of
the service."

One of the most serious post-war German intelligence scandals began to unfold
last week. Reports about the shredded documents were leaked to the media and
provoked outrage from MPs who called for an immediate investigation.

Politicians said the shredded files left the agency open to "every possible
suspicion", including the notion that neo-Nazis were on its payroll or that
agents themselves had neo-Nazi sympathies. The agency has made no secret of its
use of paid "moles" to infiltrate the neo-Nazi scene.

The destroyed documents contained background information on members of the
National Socialist Underground (NSU).Over a decade, the neo-Nazi terrorist cell
murdered a female police officer, shot dead nine immigrants, injured more than
20 people in two bomb attacks and robbed 14 banks to finance its operations.

Police discovered the bodies of the gang's two ringleaders, Uwe Mundlos and Uwe
Böhnhardt, in a burnt-out caravan in eastern Germany in November last year.
Investigators established that they had committed suicide after robbing a bank.
A third member of the gang, a woman called Beate Zschäpe, was caught and
arrested and is still being questioned.

The gang would shoot immigrant Turkish and Greek street vendors at point-blank
range and without warning with a Czech-made Ceska pistol. A nail bomb detonated
by the group in a crowded Turkish district of Cologne in 2004 injured 22 people.

For more than a decade, police ruled out the possibility of neo-Nazi involvement
and attributed the killings instead to immigrant "gang warfare". German police
even set up two of their own Turkish doner kebab stalls to catch the presumed
immigrant gang leaders. It only dawned on police that a far-right terrorist cell
was behind the attacks after they followed up leads from the bank robbery last
year and found the Ceska murder weapon.

It emerged at the weekend that the agent who shredded the seven files was a
high-ranking officer who worked for a department specialising in surveillance of
the extreme right at intelligence headquarters in Cologne. He is said to have
destroyed the documents on 11 November last year - the same day that federal
prosecutors took over the investigation of the case.

The officer is reported to have lied to superiors and claimed that the documents
had been destroyed 10 months earlier. The Cologne agents were also said to have
deliberately left out important surveillance information from computer files and
claimed this was for "operative reasons".

Meanwhile, further information published yesterday revealed that Italy's
intelligence services had supplied their German counterparts with information
about a neo-Nazi terrorist network eight years before police discovered the
bodies of the NSU ringleaders last November. The Italians first tipped off
German intelligence about a meeting of European neo-Nazis in the Belgian town of
Waasmunster in 2003, where Italian neo-Nazis had referred to a terrorist
network. Italian intelligence also reported that militant German neo-Nazis met
frequently with their Italian counterparts, who often supplied them with money.

In 2008, an Italian neo-Nazi skinhead group from South Tyrol was reported to
have held a meeting with militant German neo-Nazis, where attacks on foreigners
were planned to "make an example".

Several politicians yesterday applauded Mr Fromm's resignation saying it was
"necessary and right". However, Hartfrid Wolff, a liberal Free Democrat MP,
echoed the view of many in saying: "His resignation comes just after the
disclosures about the destroyed documents and it suggests that there is more to
this affair than is so far known."

Mr Fromm is scheduled to give evidence before a parliamentary committee
investigating the scandal on Thursday.

LOAD-DATE: August 15, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBBELT


           Copyright 2012 Independent News & Media (Northern Ireland)
                              All Rights Reserved

                              438 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                               Independent.co.uk

                       July 3, 2012 Tuesday 12:43 PM GMT

German spy chief Heinz Fromm quits over neo-Nazi investigation scandal;
Government agents destroyed files on far-right terrorist cell behind murderous
attacks on immigrants

BYLINE: Tony Paterson

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 767 words


The head of German intelligence was forced to resign yesterday amid explosive
revelations that his agents deliberately destroyed and manipulated files
containing information about a neo-Nazi terror cell behind the country's worst
far-right violence since the Second World War.

Heinz Fromm, 63, said he took responsibility for the actions of staff who
shredded seven intelligence documents, left out key information from computer
files and lied to their superiors at the height of an inquiry into neo-Nazi
terrorists last November.

Mr Fromm, who resigned after 12 years at the helm of the Federal Office for the
Protection of the Constitution, said the actions of the agents involved were
unprecedented. "Nothing like this has ever occurred before during my tenure," he
said. "It is a major breach of trust and hugely damaging to the reputation of
the service."

One of the most serious post-war German intelligence scandals began to unfold
last week. Reports about the shredded documents were leaked to the media and
provoked outrage from MPs who called for an immediate investigation.

Politicians said the shredded files left the agency open to "every possible
suspicion", including the notion that neo-Nazis were on its payroll or that
agents themselves had neo-Nazi sympathies. The agency has made no secret of its
use of paid "moles" to infiltrate the neo-Nazi scene.

The destroyed documents contained background information on members of the
National Socialist Underground (NSU).Over a decade, the neo-Nazi terrorist cell
murdered a female police officer, shot dead nine immigrants, injured more than
20 people in two bomb attacks and robbed 14 banks to finance its operations.

Police discovered the bodies of the gang's two ringleaders, Uwe Mundlos and Uwe
Böhnhardt, in a burnt-out caravan in eastern Germany in November last year.
Investigators established that they had committed suicide after robbing a bank.
A third member of the gang, a woman called Beate Zschäpe, was caught and
arrested and is still being questioned.

The gang would shoot immigrant Turkish and Greek street vendors at point-blank
range and without warning with a Czech-made Ceska pistol. A nail bomb detonated
by the group in a crowded Turkish district of Cologne in 2004 injured 22 people.

For more than a decade, police ruled out the possibility of neo-Nazi involvement
and attributed the killings instead to immigrant "gang warfare". German police
even set up two of their own Turkish doner kebab stalls to catch the presumed
immigrant gang leaders. It only dawned on police that a far-right terrorist cell
was behind the attacks after they followed up leads from the bank robbery last
year and found the Ceska murder weapon.

It emerged at the weekend that the agent who shredded the seven files was a
high-ranking officer who worked for a department specialising in surveillance of
the extreme right at intelligence headquarters in Cologne. He is said to have
destroyed the documents on 11 November last year - the same day that federal
prosecutors took over the investigation of the case.

The officer is reported to have lied to superiors and claimed that the documents
had been destroyed 10 months earlier. The Cologne agents were also said to have
deliberately left out important surveillance information from computer files and
claimed this was for "operative reasons".

Meanwhile, further information published yesterday revealed that Italy's
intelligence services had supplied their German counterparts with information
about a neo-Nazi terrorist network eight years before police discovered the
bodies of the NSU ringleaders last November. The Italians first tipped off
German intelligence about a meeting of European neo-Nazis in the Belgian town of
Waasmunster in 2003, where Italian neo-Nazis had referred to a terrorist
network. Italian intelligence also reported that militant German neo-Nazis met
frequently with their Italian counterparts, who often supplied them with money.

In 2008, an Italian neo-Nazi skinhead group from South Tyrol was reported to
have held a meeting with militant German neo-Nazis, where attacks on foreigners
were planned to "make an example".

Several politicians yesterday applauded Mr Fromm's resignation saying it was
"necessary and right". However, Hartfrid Wolff, a liberal Free Democrat MP,
echoed the view of many in saying: "His resignation comes just after the
disclosures about the destroyed documents and it suggests that there is more to
this affair than is so far known."

Mr Fromm is scheduled to give evidence before a parliamentary committee
investigating the scandal on Thursday.

LOAD-DATE: July 4, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBI


                  Copyright 2012 Independent News & Media plc
                              All Rights Reserved

                              439 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                        July 3, 2012 Tuesday 8:53 PM GMT

Iranians 'were targeting British High Commission in Kenya';
Two Iranians suspected of planning terror attacks in Kenya toured Nairobi
surveying the British High Commission, the Israeli embassy and a synagogue in
the week before their arrest, police told The Daily Telegraph.

BYLINE: By Mike Pflanz Nairobi

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 727 words


The pair made notes during drive-by survelliance in the Kenyan capital but did
not take photographs for fear of raising suspicions.

Police sources referred to testimony given to detectives by a driver the men had
hired.

The men, reportedly agents of the elite al-Quds division of Iran's Revolutionary
Guards, have been charged with possessing 15kg of a powerful explosive called
RDX, a component of Semtex, they had imported to Kenya via Iraq.

Ahmad Abolfathi Mohammad and Sayed Mansour Mousavi were arrested after Kenyan
police linked them to a package containing explosives delivered to a warehouse
near Mombasa, Kenya's main coast city. The pair planned to detonate as many as
30 different bombs targeting British, US, Israeli and Saudi Arabian interests,
including tourist facilities and prominent commercial and governement buildings,
anti-terror investigators believe.

"Our officers were highly suspicious of them from the moment that they landed
in-country," one senior Kenyan detective with close knowledge of the men's case
claimed.

"They were driving around Nairobi, they went past the British High Commission,
they went past the [Nairobi Hebrew Congregation] synagogue in town, they went to
the Israeli embassy.

"It is very clear that they were casing these places, that they were up to no
good. From what we saw, their intention was clear to plan and execute terrorism
attacks."

Like most diplomatic missions in Nairobi, Britain's High Commission is heavily
secured with high walls, electrified fences, guards patrolling 24 hours and
extensive CCTV cameras.

It is understood that the Iranian team focused their survey on a forested road
that passes along the complex's eastern perimeter, close to a city centre golf
course.

There were no ongoing investigations into the specific reports cited by local
police, a spokesman for the High Commission said.

Following al-Qaeda bombings at the US embassies in Kenya and Tanzania in 1998,
the nearby Israeli embassy became one of East Africa's best-protected foreign
missions.

"That would have been a very ambitious target for a terror attack," one
Nairobi-based security analyst said. "But the fact that they were looking there
illustrates that they were not aiming low."

Investigators believe that the men planned to attack Western interests in Kenya
because of the country involvement in neighbouring Somalia.

Any major bomb attacks would likely immediately be blamed on al-Shabaab rather
than Iran, which is not known to have carried out significant direct or proxy
strikes against the West, or Israel, in East Africa.

But had the attacks been successful, they would have matched an emerging pattern
of Iranian actions against Israel taking place across the globe.

Last October, the US justice ministry said it had uncovered an Iranian
conspiracy to use members of a Mexican drug cartel to assassinate Saudi Arabia's
ambassador to Washington.

Other plots believed to have been planned by Iranian agents include bomb strikes
in Thailand, an attack against the wife of an Israeli diplomat in India, and the
targeting of Israeli teachers at a Jewish school in Azerbaijan.

Analysts believe each mission was to be carried out by al-Quds agents and were
part of a retaliation programme against Israel following the deaths in recent
years of five Iranian scientists with links to Tehran's nuclear programme.

Benjamin Netanyahu, Israel's prime minister, was yesterday quoted directly
accusing the Iranian government of giving orders to the two men arrested in
Kenya, a charge that Iran has denied.

"Iranian terrorism knows no borders," said Mr Netanyahu. "The international
community must fight against this major player in the world of terrorism."

Security sources said that Israeli-owned hotels and businesses in Mombasa and
along the coast to the city's north and south, popular with British tourists,
could also have been targets.

A vehicle hired by one of the men was used to carry the explosives from the port
to a hiding place close to a golf course in Mombasa, police said.

"There was enough there for many different smaller explosions," the officer
said. "We were told that they planned 30 different targets." Prosecutors said in
their charge sheet that the two had explosives "in circumstances that indicated
they were armed with the intent to commit a felony, namely, acts intended to
cause grievous harm".

LOAD-DATE: July 4, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTNS


                  Copyright 2012 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              440 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring South Asia - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                             July 4, 2012 Wednesday

Pakistan editorial slams terror attacks on schools, religious places

LENGTH: 468 words


Text of editorial headlined "Enemies of scholarship" published by Pakistani
newspaper The Frontier Post website on 4 July


Once again Taleban have blown up a girls school in the Khyber Pakhtunkhwa
province and this time the target was the government Higher Secondary Education
School at Shahbaz Garhi in Mardan district. The modus operandi of the attack on
a centre of learning also remained the same as this school was also "partially
damaged" in detonating of an explosive device in the darkness of the night on
Sunday. May it be Taleban or their more militant brethren-in-arm in Al-Qa'idah,
they espouse and cherish identical mission of destroying all that relates to
education culture and heritage.

Women's academic and vocational institutions have been their specific target
because they detest women by conviction. The earliest manifestation of their
vandalism on history came to fore when in 2001 their government of Afghanistan
damaged great statues of Buddha at Bamiyan at a time when the entire world was
opposing the barbaric act. This was followed by razing to ground thousands of
schools and vocational training institutes across Pakistan's north western
province in particular. Taleban also boast attacking the shrines of Sufi saints
in Karachi, Lahore, Pakpattan, Peshawar, Kasur and other cities of Pakistan.
Western African Muslim country of Mali could also not escape their vandalism
within one week or 10 days in the past as Islamist rebels occupying the ancient
Mali city of Timbuktu, destroyed six sacred tombs that are part of a World
Heritage site, alleging that they are "idolatrous". Militant 'Ansar Din' group
has threatened to destroy every mausoleum in the city, as building on graves is
taboo in Islam. The Al-Qa'idah linked outfit on 30 June vandalized three
mausoleums of Sidi Mahmoud, Sidi Moctar and Alpha Moya in the cemetery at the
14th-Century Djingareyber mosque. The International Criminal Court (ICC)
prosecutor Fatou Bensouda has warned that the destruction of the mausoleums is a
"war crime", which her office has authority to probe.

The government has urged the United Nations to take action to stop crimes
against its architectural treasures. The attacks on centuries-old shrines to
Islamic saints, revered by Sufi Muslims, come within hours of the World Heritage
Committee meeting being held in the Russian city of St. Petersburg accepting the
Mali government's request to place Timbuktu and the Tomb of Askia on UNESCO's
List of World Heritage in Danger. Taleban and their Al-Qa'idah people do not
understand peace, love and tolerance; they are destroying everything that come
in conflict with their brand of Islam. They must be taught in their own language
and that seeks their own destruction to save the world.

Source: The Frontier Post, Peshawar, in English 04 Jul 12

LOAD-DATE: July 4, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2012 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              441 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring Middle East - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                             July 4, 2012 Wednesday

Syria "armed terrorist group" attacks power lines in Dayr al-Zawr

LENGTH: 93 words


Text of report in English by state-run Syrian news agency SANA website

["Armed terrorist group attacks high-voltage power lines in Deir Ezzor" - SANA
headline]

Dayr Al-Zawr, (SANA) - An armed terrorist group attacked Tuesday night [3 July]
high-voltage power lines (230 kilovolts) which connect between Dayr al-Zawr and
Al-Hasaka provinces.

A source at the Ministry of Electricity told SANA correspondent that the
terrorist attack caused the loss of 50 megawatts and cut power supply to the
city.

F.Allafi

Source: SANA news agency website, Damascus in English 4 Jul 12

LOAD-DATE: July 4, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2012 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              442 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                       BBC Monitoring Africa - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                             July 5, 2012 Thursday

Kenya deploys police to northeastern region following recent terror attacks

LENGTH: 253 words


Text of report by Zadock Angira entitled "700 police posted to northern Kenya in
terror war" published by Kenyan privately-owned newspaper Daily Nation website
on 5 July

A seven hundred strong police contingent has been posted to North Eastern
Province in the wake of increased terror attacks.

Fourteen vehicles have also deployed to help police patrols in new measures to
combat terrorism.

Acting Internal Security Minister Yusuf Haji said Thursday [5 July] that
security will be enhanced during church functions.

All taxis and motor cycle operators commonly referred to as boda boda will have
to be registered, Mr Haji said.

Of the 700 officers, 300 comprise regular police while Administration Police
number 100.

A further 300 police reservists have also been deployed.

The latest move comes days after 17 people were killed in twin church attacks in
Garissa.

Hooded gunmen threw grenades at people worshipping at the AIC and Catholic
churches. They also opened fire resulting in the 17 deaths and over 60 injured.

On Wednesday, 83 people were arrested in a massive security swoop launched after
the attacks in Garissa churches.

Garissa District Commissioner M.M. Kangi said a combined team of the Kenya
Police, Administration Police, National Security Intelligence Service and the
paramilitary General Service Unit was conducting an "intensified operation to
step up intelligence gathering, flush out Al-Shabab sympathisers and foil other
potential terrorist plans".

Source: Daily Nation website, Nairobi, in English 5 Jul 12

LOAD-DATE: July 5, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2012 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              443 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                   MailOnline

                       July 5, 2012 Thursday 11:20 PM GMT

Former 'Blunkett bobby' is among six held as police swoop to stop 'major
terrorist attack'

BYLINE: STEPHEN WRIGHT and CHRIS GREENWOOD

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 674 words



     ·    Man, 24, Tasered by police as he is arrested
     ·    Police say terror raids are NOT linked to the Olympics
     ·    Arrests made after two held over alleged plot to attack the London
          Olympic canoeing event
     ·    Police raid addresses in Stratford, east London, and Ealing, west
          London


A former police community support officer was arrested yesterday over an alleged
plot to carry out a major terrorist attack, possibly during the Olympics.

Jahangir Alom, 26, who spent two years working for the Metropolitan Police, was
among six people detained over an alleged plan to cause an atrocity in the UK.

The former 'Blunkett bobby' and his two younger brothers were arrested at 4am at
their family home half a mile from the Olympic Park in Stratford, East London.

A white Muslim convert, Richard Dart, 29, who once worked as a BBC security
guard, was among three other suspects taken into custody elsewhere.

In April last year Dart, using the name Salahuddin Al Britani, appeared in an
internet video uploaded by a Muslim group, which vowed to disrupt the wedding of
Prince William and Kate Middleton.

A woman aged 30 and man of 21 were arrested at separate homes in West London
yesterday, on suspicion of being part of the terrorist plot.

Last night the suspects' alleged targets were unclear, as was how it is alleged
they planned to strike. But security sources described the arrests 'as very
significant' and counter-terrorism chiefs are convinced they have thwarted a
major attack.

Yesterday's developments followed months of surveillance and a recent, worrying
increase in intelligence 'chatter', prompting fears of an attack to coincide
with the Olympics and Paralympics.

It is not thought that the suspects were intending to target Games' venues or
spectators. But detectives fear Islamic radicals will try to maximise publicity
with an attack - anywhere in Britain - during the next two months.

Jahangir Alom and his brothers Moybur Alom, 18, and Alomgir Alom, 24, were
arrested at the semi-detached council home they share with their mother in Abbey
Road, Stratford, East London.

One of the men was Tasered as dozens of armed officers threw 'flash bang'
grenades and stormed into their family home. Neighbours screamed as police
dressed in black paramilitary-style clothing smashed down doors and smoke poured
from the windows.

One said: 'I asked one police officer what was going on and he said it was an
Olympic exercise.'

All three brothers are British nationals from a large Bangladeshi family and
attended the local Rokerby High School.

Their father, Sheikh Alkas Ali, a chef, is understood to have returned to
Bangladesh, where he and his wife were both born.

The arrested men's brother-in-law Salim Ahmed said they had once been
acquaintances of radical preacher Anjem Choudary. Jahangir also appeared in a
Channel 4 documentary, My Brother The Islamist, in which he drove several men to
a meeting at a mosque in Leeds.

Jahangir spent two years working as a Metropolitan Police community support
officer in East London, before leaving the force in May 2009.

In a nine-minute interview posted on YouTube, Jahangir - using the name Abu
Khalid - said he once harboured ambitions to become a chief inspector but later
quit the police.

His arrest was part of a London-wide terrorist operation that saw Dart detained
in the street and a man and woman held at their home in Ealing, West London.

Dart is a Muslim convert who criticised Britain on TV while claiming benefits to
live rent-free. He also appeared in the documentary My Brother The Islamist,
alongside Jahangir Alom.

A total of eight homes across London were being searched last night as officers
looked for evidence of a plot.

Scotland Yard said five men and one woman were arrested on suspicion of the
commission, preparation or instigation of acts of terrorism under the Terrorism
Act 2000.

'Public safety remains our overriding concern. Today's operation in London is
not linked to the Olympic and Paralympic games,' a spokesman added.

The suspects can be detained for 14 days before officers must charge or release
them.

LOAD-DATE: July 16, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDM


                   Copyright 2012 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              444 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                            Manchester Evening News

                             July 5, 2012 Thursday

Three arrested after machete attack terror

BYLINE: WFnode

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 229 words


KATIE STOREY

POLICE have arrested three suspects after two men were attacked with a machete
as they sat in a car in Pilsworth Road.

A 39-year-old man received a serious stab wound to his throat during the attack,
while his friend, 21, suffered injuries to his torso.

The attack took place at around 7.15pm on May 30, both men are still recovering
from their injuries.

Officers raided houses in Lanark Close, Langholme Way and Skye Close in
Darnhill, arresting three men, aged 21, 23 and 25 on suspicion of Section 18
assault - causing grievous bodily harm with intent. A fourth man, aged 21, was
arrested on suspicion of possession with intent to supply class A drugs,
believed to be crack cocaine.

All suspects were taken into police custody for questioning.

Detective Constable Ben Harris said: This was a violent attack in broad daylight
that left the two victims with severe injuries.

The offenders did not give a second thought to the many motorists who witnessed
the attack and since this happened we have been working hard to establish who
was responsible.

This morning we have made a number of arrests and I would like to reassure the
community we are determined to bring the offenders to justice.

We are continuing to appeal for any information anyone may have and I would urge
those who know something about this and have not yet contacted us to do so in
absolute confidence.

LOAD-DATE: July 9, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: This was a violent attack in broad daylight

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2012 Manchester Evening News
                              All Rights Reserved

                              445 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                            Manchester Evening News

                             July 5, 2012 Thursday

Three arrested after machete attack terror

BYLINE: WFnode

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 229 words


KATIE STOREY

POLICE have arrested three suspects after two men were attacked with a machete
as they sat in a car in Pilsworth Road.

A 39-year-old man received a serious stab wound to his throat during the attack,
while his friend, 21, suffered injuries to his torso.

The attack took place at around 7.15pm on May 30, both men are still recovering
from their injuries.

Officers raided houses in Lanark Close, Langholme Way and Skye Close in
Darnhill, arresting three men, aged 21, 23 and 25 on suspicion of Section 18
assault - causing grievous bodily harm with intent. A fourth man, aged 21, was
arrested on suspicion of possession with intent to supply class A drugs,
believed to be crack cocaine.

All suspects were taken into police custody for questioning.

Detective Constable Ben Harris said: This was a violent attack in broad daylight
that left the two victims with severe injuries.

The offenders did not give a second thought to the many motorists who witnessed
the attack and since this happened we have been working hard to establish who
was responsible.

This morning we have made a number of arrests and I would like to reassure the
community we are determined to bring the offenders to justice.

We are continuing to appeal for any information anyone may have and I would urge
those who know something about this and have not yet contacted us to do so in
absolute confidence.

LOAD-DATE: July 17, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: This was a violent attack in broad daylight

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2012 Manchester Evening News
                              All Rights Reserved

                              446 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                            Manchester Evening News

                             July 5, 2012 Thursday

Three arrested after machete attack terror

BYLINE: WFnode

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 229 words


KATIE STOREY

POLICE have arrested three suspects after two men were attacked with a machete
as they sat in a car in Pilsworth Road.

A 39-year-old man received a serious stab wound to his throat during the attack,
while his friend, 21, suffered injuries to his torso.

The attack took place at around 7.15pm on May 30, both men are still recovering
from their injuries.

Officers raided houses in Lanark Close, Langholme Way and Skye Close in
Darnhill, arresting three men, aged 21, 23 and 25 on suspicion of Section 18
assault - causing grievous bodily harm with intent. A fourth man, aged 21, was
arrested on suspicion of possession with intent to supply class A drugs,
believed to be crack cocaine.

All suspects were taken into police custody for questioning.

Detective Constable Ben Harris said: This was a violent attack in broad daylight
that left the two victims with severe injuries.

The offenders did not give a second thought to the many motorists who witnessed
the attack and since this happened we have been working hard to establish who
was responsible.

This morning we have made a number of arrests and I would like to reassure the
community we are determined to bring the offenders to justice.

We are continuing to appeal for any information anyone may have and I would urge
those who know something about this and have not yet contacted us to do so in
absolute confidence.

LOAD-DATE: July 27, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: This was a violent attack in broad daylight

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2012 Manchester Evening News
                              All Rights Reserved

                              447 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                            Manchester Evening News

                             July 5, 2012 Thursday

Three arrested after machete attack terror

BYLINE: WFnode

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 229 words


KATIE STOREY

POLICE have arrested three suspects after two men were attacked with a machete
as they sat in a car in Pilsworth Road.

A 39-year-old man received a serious stab wound to his throat during the attack,
while his friend, 21, suffered injuries to his torso.

The attack took place at around 7.15pm on May 30, both men are still recovering
from their injuries.

Officers raided houses in Lanark Close, Langholme Way and Skye Close in
Darnhill, arresting three men, aged 21, 23 and 25 on suspicion of Section 18
assault - causing grievous bodily harm with intent. A fourth man, aged 21, was
arrested on suspicion of possession with intent to supply class A drugs,
believed to be crack cocaine.

All suspects were taken into police custody for questioning.

Detective Constable Ben Harris said: This was a violent attack in broad daylight
that left the two victims with severe injuries.

The offenders did not give a second thought to the many motorists who witnessed
the attack and since this happened we have been working hard to establish who
was responsible.

This morning we have made a number of arrests and I would like to reassure the
community we are determined to bring the offenders to justice.

We are continuing to appeal for any information anyone may have and I would urge
those who know something about this and have not yet contacted us to do so in
absolute confidence.

LOAD-DATE: August 8, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: This was a violent attack in broad daylight

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2012 Manchester Evening News
                              All Rights Reserved

                              448 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                            Manchester Evening News

                             July 5, 2012 Thursday

Three arrested after machete attack terror

BYLINE: WFnode

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 229 words


KATIE STOREY

POLICE have arrested three suspects after two men were attacked with a machete
as they sat in a car in Pilsworth Road.

A 39-year-old man received a serious stab wound to his throat during the attack,
while his friend, 21, suffered injuries to his torso.

The attack took place at around 7.15pm on May 30, both men are still recovering
from their injuries.

Officers raided houses in Lanark Close, Langholme Way and Skye Close in
Darnhill, arresting three men, aged 21, 23 and 25 on suspicion of Section 18
assault - causing grievous bodily harm with intent. A fourth man, aged 21, was
arrested on suspicion of possession with intent to supply class A drugs,
believed to be crack cocaine.

All suspects were taken into police custody for questioning.

Detective Constable Ben Harris said: This was a violent attack in broad daylight
that left the two victims with severe injuries.

The offenders did not give a second thought to the many motorists who witnessed
the attack and since this happened we have been working hard to establish who
was responsible.

This morning we have made a number of arrests and I would like to reassure the
community we are determined to bring the offenders to justice.

We are continuing to appeal for any information anyone may have and I would urge
those who know something about this and have not yet contacted us to do so in
absolute confidence.

LOAD-DATE: August 17, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: This was a violent attack in broad daylight

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2012 Manchester Evening News
                              All Rights Reserved

                              449 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                            Manchester Evening News

                             July 5, 2012 Thursday

Three arrested after machete attack terror

BYLINE: WFnode

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 229 words


KATIE STOREY

POLICE have arrested three suspects after two men were attacked with a machete
as they sat in a car in Pilsworth Road.

A 39-year-old man received a serious stab wound to his throat during the attack,
while his friend, 21, suffered injuries to his torso.

The attack took place at around 7.15pm on May 30, both men are still recovering
from their injuries.

Officers raided houses in Lanark Close, Langholme Way and Skye Close in
Darnhill, arresting three men, aged 21, 23 and 25 on suspicion of Section 18
assault - causing grievous bodily harm with intent. A fourth man, aged 21, was
arrested on suspicion of possession with intent to supply class A drugs,
believed to be crack cocaine.

All suspects were taken into police custody for questioning.

Detective Constable Ben Harris said: This was a violent attack in broad daylight
that left the two victims with severe injuries.

The offenders did not give a second thought to the many motorists who witnessed
the attack and since this happened we have been working hard to establish who
was responsible.

This morning we have made a number of arrests and I would like to reassure the
community we are determined to bring the offenders to justice.

We are continuing to appeal for any information anyone may have and I would urge
those who know something about this and have not yet contacted us to do so in
absolute confidence.

LOAD-DATE: August 31, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: This was a violent attack in broad daylight

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2012 Manchester Evening News
                              All Rights Reserved

                              450 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                       July 5, 2012 Thursday 10:19 PM GMT

White Muslim one of six arrested over 'terror plot';
White Muslim convert Richard Dart and a former police community support officer
were among six people arrested for allegedly plotting a terror attack in
Britain.

BYLINE: By Tom Whitehead Martin Evans and Sam Marsden

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 738 words


Richard Dart, who was radicalised by the cleric Anjem Choudary, was held
following police raids in east and west London.

A former PCSO and two of his brothers, who were living just over a mile from the
Olympic site in Stratford, were also among those detained during the police and
MI5 operation to prevent a suspected terror assault.

One of the brothers was Tasered by officers. Counter-terrorism police had first
searched their home last November.

The Daily Telegraph understands the police moved over fears that a group had
obtained a sword which could potentially be used in a terrorist attack.

Mr Dart, 29, the son of Dorset teachers, featured in a BBC documentary last year
filmed by his own brother about his conversion. During the film, called My
Brother the Islamist, he was seen protesting about British soldiers in
Afghanistan and accused them of being "murderers".

He also called for Sharia law to be established in Britain, as well as saying
that one of his friends used to be "in the police", but is not any more. Mr Dart
has changed his name to Salahuddin al Britani. Salahuddin comes from the
medieval leader who drove King Richard I from Jerusalem during the Crusades.

It emerged last year that the former BBC security guard was living off state
benefits in a luxury flat in Mile End, east London.

Anjem Choudary said he had converted Mr Dart but had not been in contact with
him for more than a year.

The six, which included one woman, were arrested on suspicion of the commission,
preparation or instigation of acts of terrorism after police raids during the
early hours of Thursday, July 5.

Neighbours in Stratford said one of the brothers was Jahangir Alom, 26, who
served as a former Metropolitan community support officer between May 2007 and
September 2009. He is understood to also go under the name of Abu Khalid.

In 2010, Mr Khalid appeared in a YouTube video to say why he had stopped being a
PCSO and had become an Islamic fundamentalist.

In the film he explains that he realized he was leading a "misguided" life after
meeting with some "brothers". He said as a PCSO he was involved in stop and
searches and that he now realised he was "implementing kuffur (enemies of Islam)
law on the streets of London".

The other two brothers arrested are understood to be Mohammed Alomgir, 24, and
Moybur Alom, 18. Mr Alomgir was hit with a police Taser during the arrests but
did not require hospital treatment.

At the same time, in Ealing, west London, a 29-year-old man, believed to be Mr
Dart, was arrested in the street, while a 21-year-old man and a 30-year-old
woman were held at separate residential premises.

Police insisted that the arrests were not linked to the Olympics and that an
attack was not believed to be imminent.

The suspects had been monitored by counter-terrorism officers and MI5 for some
time and the arrests were part of a pre-planned intelligence operation.

Mr Dart's stepfather Thomas Leech, speaking from the family's home in Weymouth,
Dorset, confirmed that Mr Dart had been arrested but said the family did not
wish to comment further.

In Stratford, another neighbour said that the three brothers had been "getting
more religious throughout the years". Another said he was "confused" because the
"big one" used to be a PCSO, so the events had left him "very surprised".

Neighbours said the father of the family had left their mother to bring up three
sons and one daughter on her own.

During the raid at the Abbey Road address in Stratford, the front door of the
house was smashed, leaving debris lying on the doorstep and a red curtain draped
over the entrance. Police erected a blue tent in front of the door as officers
visited and left the property throughout the day.

A neighbour said the street lights had been extinguished and the road blocked
off to traffic just before the arrest.

He said: "It seemed like it was synchronised by the police. There were no
sirens. However, at around 4.10am we heard a big blast. I saw from the window
that the door of the house flew off.

"It wasn't a battering ram that the police used, it was an explosion that went,
'bang' four times. It was dark. The only thing I could see was the officers all
in black in helmets and with riot shields."

Reje Rahman, 32, a child protection worker, said her 12-year-old daughter was so
scared by the raid that she "couldn't get to sleep afterwards" and thought that
the "building was going to collapse".

LOAD-DATE: July 16, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTNS


                  Copyright 2012 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              451 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                       July 5, 2012 Thursday 1:55 PM GMT

India says Pakistan can help relations by arresting Mumbai terror attack
suspects;
India's foreign secretary has told Pakistan that the biggest confidence building
measure it could take to improve relations between the two countries would be to
arrest the 2008 Mumbai terror attack suspects.

BYLINE: By Dean Nelson New Delhi

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 376 words


His comments were made following talks with his Pakistani counterpart in New
Delhi, which were part of a series that has raised hopes of significant progress
in improving the fraught relationship.

The two countries came close to breaking point following the massacre in Mumbai
in which ten terrorists killed 166 civilians.

Hopes of a breakthrough had increased in recent months following a series of
"confidence building measures" to increase trade and people to people contacts
across the border.

However, they have been overshadowed by reports that a terrorist suspect
arrested in Saudi Arabia has told Indian investigators that Pakistani
intelligence figures were in the Karachi control room where the key plotters
directed the ten terrorists in the atrocity.

His reported claims echo those made by India's home secretary and Prime Minister
Dr Manmohan Singh shortly after the attacks, which raised fears of a new war
between the nuclear neighbours and rivals.

Syed Zabiuddin Ansari, an Indian Muslim from Maharashtra who was recently
deported from Saudi Arabia allegedly told investigators he had taught Hindi to
the ten attackers and given them tips on how to dress like typical young
Mumbaikars.

He is believed to have joined the Lashkar e Taiba group which carried out the
attacks.

The LeT began as a militant group fighting to end Indian rule in Jammu and
Kashmir, but it has since grown to become a global terrorist organisation with
close ties to al-Qaeda.

It is believed to have been used by Pakistan's security forces as a proxy for
attacks on Indian troops in Kashmir.

Indian frustration over the lack of progress in Pakistan's investigation into
the Mumbai attacks has been muted recently, but it surfaced again yesterday when
Foreign Secretary Ranjan Mathai said Islamabad should do more if relations are
to make progress.

"I emphasised that terrorism is the biggest threat to peace and security in the
region and that bringing the guilty to justice in the Mumbai terror attacks
would be the biggest confidence-building measure of all," he said.

His counterpart Jalil Abbas Jilani however rejected Indian claims of state
complicity. Islamabad is however "willing to enter comprehensive co-operation in
order to defeat the forces of terrorism," he said.

LOAD-DATE: July 9, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTNS


                  Copyright 2012 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              452 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                       July 5, 2012 Thursday 1:55 PM GMT

India says Pakistan can help relations by arresting Mumbai terror attack
suspects;
India's foreign secretary has told Pakistan that the biggest confidence building
measure it could take to improve relations between the two countries would be to
arrest the 2008 Mumbai terror attack suspects.

BYLINE: By Dean Nelson New Delhi

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 376 words


His comments were made following talks with his Pakistani counterpart in New
Delhi, which were part of a series that has raised hopes of significant progress
in improving the fraught relationship.

The two countries came close to breaking point following the massacre in Mumbai
in which ten terrorists killed 166 civilians.

Hopes of a breakthrough had increased in recent months following a series of
"confidence building measures" to increase trade and people to people contacts
across the border.

However, they have been overshadowed by reports that a terrorist suspect
arrested in Saudi Arabia has told Indian investigators that Pakistani
intelligence figures were in the Karachi control room where the key plotters
directed the ten terrorists in the atrocity.

His reported claims echo those made by India's home secretary and Prime Minister
Dr Manmohan Singh shortly after the attacks, which raised fears of a new war
between the nuclear neighbours and rivals.

Syed Zabiuddin Ansari, an Indian Muslim from Maharashtra who was recently
deported from Saudi Arabia allegedly told investigators he had taught Hindi to
the ten attackers and given them tips on how to dress like typical young
Mumbaikars.

He is believed to have joined the Lashkar e Taiba group which carried out the
attacks.

The LeT began as a militant group fighting to end Indian rule in Jammu and
Kashmir, but it has since grown to become a global terrorist organisation with
close ties to al-Qaeda.

It is believed to have been used by Pakistan's security forces as a proxy for
attacks on Indian troops in Kashmir.

Indian frustration over the lack of progress in Pakistan's investigation into
the Mumbai attacks has been muted recently, but it surfaced again yesterday when
Foreign Secretary Ranjan Mathai said Islamabad should do more if relations are
to make progress.

"I emphasised that terrorism is the biggest threat to peace and security in the
region and that bringing the guilty to justice in the Mumbai terror attacks
would be the biggest confidence-building measure of all," he said.

His counterpart Jalil Abbas Jilani however rejected Indian claims of state
complicity. Islamabad is however "willing to enter comprehensive co-operation in
order to defeat the forces of terrorism," he said.

LOAD-DATE: July 16, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTNS


                  Copyright 2012 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              453 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring Middle East - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                              July 6, 2012 Friday

"Terrorists" attack Algerian military roadblock near Tizi Ouzou

LENGTH: 107 words


Text of report by Algerian electronic daily Tout sur l'Algerie website on 5 July

[Report by Imene Brahimi: "Military Roadblock Attacked by Terrorists Near Tizi
Ouzou"]

A military roadblock was attacked by terrorists on Wednesday [4 Jul] night into
Thursday [5 Jul] morning close to Takhoukht, in the wilaya of Tizi Ouzou, it was
learned from local security sources. No toll is yet available about this attack,
which coincided with the launch of the festivities for the 50th anniversary of
national independence. This Thursday, 5 July Algeria celebrated the 50th
anniversary of its independence.

Source: Tout sur l'Algerie website, in French 5 Jul 12

LOAD-DATE: July 6, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2012 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              454 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                                  Daily Record

                              July 6, 2012, Friday

AN ATTACK OF THE VAPOURS;
ARMED TERROR COPS CLOSE M-WAY AFTER ELECTRONIC FAG SPARKS PANIC

BYLINE: Martin Fricker

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 323 words


PETRIFIED families were ordered off a coach by armed police yesterday after a
pounds 10 electronic cigarette sparked a "dirty bomb" alert.

Anti-terror cops swooped on the blue Megabus during morning rush-hour after
vapour was spotted coming from a man's luggage.

Fearing a chemical terrorist attack, a fellow passenger alerted the driver who
stopped the coach and phoned police.

A major anti-terror operation costing hundreds of thousands of pounds was
immediately launched.

Eyewitnesses said 17 police cars, eight police vans, 13 fire engines, four
ambulances and two Army bomb disposal units attended the scene. But emergency
services refused to say how many personnel took part.

The armed officers and bomb disposal units surrounded the bus on the M6 in
Weeford, Staffordshire, and 48 passengers including women and children were
ordered off with their hands in the air.

They were made to sit in a taped-off decontamination zone on the hard shoulder
as the bus was searched.

Drivers stranded in traffic were told not to use their air-conditioning and to
keep their windows closed amid fears of a chemical attack.

But four hours after the incident began, police said it was a false alarm caused
by a batteryoperated "e-cigarette".

The device mimics a real fag by producing a vapour that resembles smoke when
inhaled.

th awoi Police sources said a male passenger had been enjoying a crafty puff on
the Preston to London bus and covered the device with a plastic bag to stop
other people seeing - inadvertently sparking the massive terror alert.

n th whb Another witness said: "People were coming off the coach with their arms
in the air. They were being spoken to by armed police. It was like something out
of a movie." Police said: "The concerns reported to us were unfounded." Tfa th
wme One passenger said she wasn't told why they had pulled over. She said being
made to sit crosslegged on the tarmac was "scary and frightening".

le s P th bpth co w

LOAD-DATE: July 6, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: SCARY Armed cops guard passengers. Right, e-cigarette

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


            Copyright 2012 Scottish Daily Record & Sunday Mail Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              455 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                              The Herald (Glasgow)

                              July 6, 2012 Friday
                                   1 Edition

Six arrested on suspicion of plotting terrorist attack

BYLINE: NO BYLINE

SECTION: HS - NEWS; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 423 words


SIX people, including three living just over a mile from the Olympic site and a
former police community support officer, have been arrested over a suspected
terror plot.

The alleged plan involved Islamist extremists with potential targets in the UK,
but was not linked to the Olympics, it is understood.

Yesterday s arrests were part of a pre-planned intelligence-led operation by the
Metropolitan Police counter-terror command along with armed officers, but the
threat was not thought to be imminent.

Five men and a woman were arrested on suspicion of the commission, preparation
or instigation of acts of terrorism and were being held at a south-east London
police station, police said.

Three of the men, believed to be members of the same Bangladeshi family, were
arrested in a raid on a house in Stratford, east London.

One, aged 24, was tasered during his arrest but did not require hospital
treatment. The others were aged 18 and 26.

Neighbours said the occupants had been there for more than a year and there were
frequently people coming and going from the property.

They spoke of seeing men in Muslim-style robes and a woman in a burka.

Trainee taxi driver Stephen Maguire, 23, said he heard the police from his
bedroom in Eastbourne Road, which overlooks the house.  I heard the biggest bang
ever and I saw a massive cloud of smoke and torches going up at the windows,  he
said.

In Ealing, west London, a 29-year-old man was arrested in the street, and a
21-year-old man and a 30-year-old woman were held at separate residential
premises.

Some of those held are understood to be British nationals, and one is a former
police community support officer.

A spokeswoman for Scotland Yard said:  One of the men arrested by the Counter
Terror Command yesterday served as a PCSO from May 2007 to September 2009 when
he resigned.

He was not deployed in any specialist or sensitive roles.

The force said that eight residential premises in east, west and north London,
and one business premises in east London were being searched.

The arrests come after Jonathan Evans, the director-general of the Security
Service, warned last month that Britain had experienced a  credible terrorist
attack plot about once a year since 9/11 .

He said:  In back rooms and in cars and on the streets of this country there is
no shortage of individuals talking about wanting to mount terrorist attacks.

l A man has been charged with six terrorism offences following his arrest in
December. Niall Florence, 20, of Burnley, was arrested at his home in an
anti-terror swoop.

LOAD-DATE: July 6, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: GH


                      Copyright 2012 Newsquest Media Group
                              All Rights Reserved

                              456 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                   MailOnline

                        July 6, 2012 Friday 10:28 AM GMT

White Muslim convert who threatened to disrupt Royal Wedding among six held as
police swoop in raids across London to stop 'major terrorist attack'

BYLINE: STEPHEN WRIGHT and CHRIS GREENWOOD

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 764 words



     ·    Richard Dart, 29, was arrested at a house in West London
     ·    Last year, using the name Salahuddin Al Britani, he appeared in a
          video  vowing to disrupt the wedding of Prince William and Kate
          Middleton
     ·    Former 'Blunkett bobby' also detained over alleged plan to cause an
          atrocity
     ·    Police say terror raids are NOT linked to the Olympics
     ·    Arrests made after two held over alleged plot to attack the London
          Olympic canoeing event
     ·    Police raid addresses in Stratford, east London, and Ealing, west
          London


A white Muslim convert who once worked as a BBC security guard was arrested
yesterday over an alleged plot to carry out a major terrorist attack, possibly
during the Olympics

Richard Dart, 29, was among six people detained over an alleged plan to cause an
atrocity in the UK.

Also among those arrested was a former police community support officer, who was
arrested at a home just half a mile from the Olympic Stadium.

In April last year Dart, using the name Salahuddin Al Britani, appeared in an
internet video uploaded by a Muslim group vowing to disrupt the wedding of
Prince William and Kate Middleton.

Elswhere, Jahangir Alom, 26, who spent two years working for the Metropolitan
Police, was also detained.

The former police community support officer, dubbed 'Blunkett Bobbies' because
they were introduced when David Blunkett was Home Secretary, and his two younger
brothers were arrested at 4am at their family home half a mile from the Olympic
Park in Stratford, East London.

The remaining two were a woman aged 30 and man of 21, who were arrested at
separate homes in West London yesterday, on suspicion of being part of the
terrorist plot.

Last night the suspects' alleged targets were unclear, as was how it is alleged
they planned to strike.

But security sources described the arrests 'as very significant' and
counter-terrorism chiefs are convinced they have thwarted a major attack.

Yesterday's developments followed months of surveillance and a recent, worrying
increase in intelligence 'chatter', prompting fears of an attack to coincide
with the Olympics and Paralympics.

It is not thought that the suspects were intending to target Games' venues or
spectators.

But detectives fear Islamic radicals will try to maximise publicity with an
attack - anywhere in Britain - during the next two months.

Jahangir Alom and his brothers Moybur Alom, 18, and Alomgir Alom, 24, were
arrested at the semi-detached council home they share with their mother in Abbey
Road, Stratford, East London.

One of the men was Tasered as dozens of armed officers threw 'flash bang'
grenades and stormed into their family home. Neighbours screamed as police
dressed in black paramilitary-style clothing smashed down doors and smoke poured
from the windows.

One said: 'I asked one police officer what was going on and he said it was an
Olympic exercise.'

All three brothers are British nationals from a large Bangladeshi family and
attended the local Rokerby High School.

Their father, Sheikh Alkas Ali, a chef, is understood to have returned to
Bangladesh, where he and his wife were both born.

The arrested men's brother-in-law Salim Ahmed said they had once been
acquaintances of radical preacher Anjem Choudary. Jahangir also appeared in a
Channel 4 documentary, My Brother The Islamist, in which he drove several men to
a meeting at a mosque in Leeds.

Jahangir spent two years working as a Metropolitan Police community support
officer in East London, before leaving the force in May 2009.

In a nine-minute interview posted on YouTube, Jahangir - using the name Abu
Khalid - said he once harboured ambitions to become a chief inspector but later
quit the police.

His arrest was part of a London-wide terrorist operation that saw Dart detained
in the street and a man and woman held at their home in Ealing, West London.

Dart is a Muslim convert who criticised Britain on TV while claiming benefits to
live rent-free. He also appeared in the documentary My Brother The Islamist,
alongside Jahangir Alom.

A total of eight homes across London were being searched last night as officers
looked for evidence of a plot.

Scotland Yard said five men and one woman were arrested on suspicion of the
commission, preparation or instigation of acts of terrorism under the Terrorism
Act 2000.

'Public safety remains our overriding concern. Today's operation in London is
not linked to the Olympic and Paralympic games,' a spokesman added.

The suspects can be detained for 14 days before officers must charge or release
them.

VIDEO: Caught on camera. Moment anti-terror police raid house near Olympic Park

LOAD-DATE: July 16, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDM


                   Copyright 2012 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              457 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring Middle East - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                              July 8, 2012 Sunday

''Terrorist'' confesses to series of Syria attacks

LENGTH: 789 words


Text of report in English by state-run Syrian news agency SANA website

["Terrorist Confesses to Being Part of Armed Group Responsible for Massacres,
Participating in Smuggli..." - SANA Headline]

Damascus, (SANA) - Terrorist Ali Jassem al-Muhammad confessed to being a member
of an armed terrorist group that was responsible for many massacres against
civilians and law-enforcement sources, including the attack on al-Khalidiye
infirmary where they killed everyone inside it and photographed the bodies to
use the images to frame the armed forces of their crime.

In confessions broadcast by the Syrian TV on Friday [6 July], Al-Muhammad also
confessed to smuggling weapons and communications devices from Lebanon and
meeting opposition figures abroad who fund gunmen, in addition to meeting a
correspondent of Al-Jazeera and coordinating with him.

Al-Muhammad, who was born in Dayr al-Zawr in 1980 and lives in Bab al-Dreib,
Homs, said that he visited Saudi Arabia in early 2011 and came back to Syria in
May 2011, which is when he started participating in protests and met a man named
Mansur al-Atasi who assigned him to coordinate protests.

Later, he bought a rifle and joined gunmen who were using a school in Bab
al-Dreib as their headquarters. The 80 gunmen were led by Nazir Mando, who put
him in charge of a blockade in the area.

Al-Muhammad said that he and 300 gunmen from various neighbourhoods attacked
al-Khalidiye infirmary from all sides, using RPG launchers and AK47 and M-16
rifles, killing 40 of the people in the infirmary and kidnapping the remaining
ten.

He said that he and his accomplices gathered the bodies, stripped them naked,
bound their arms and photographed them to pass the attack as a massacre
committed by security forces and the army, then they took the bodies to a
graveyard near Jaafar al-Tayyar mosque and buried them in a mass grave there.

Al-Muhammad noted that two men from Yemen and one from Lebanon were among the
gunmen in his area, and that they were in charge of manufacturing improvised
explosive devices (IED) and installing them in cars that were later detonated in
neighbourhoods where the people support the government.

He also confessed to being part of an attack by 150 gunmen at a security
checkpoint in Homs that was making the gunmen's movement difficult. Al-Muhammad
said he accompanied a man to Dayr al-Zawr to buy weapons, where they met a man
working as a driver on the Homs-Dayr al-Zawr road and asked him to provide ten
rifles and 10,000 rounds, and two days later the man brought them 12 automatic
rifles and the rounds they asked for.

Later, Al-Muhammad fled Homs in fear of being arrested and went to Lebanon in
November 2011, contacting Nazir Mando's brother in Tripoli, who rented him a
house where he stayed with a man named Muhammad Eirout from Banyas.

During his stay at that house, Al-Muhammad met a man called Abu Mohammad
al-Rifai who owns al-Bashaer charity for helping refugees, along with another
man from Banyas who was on the run from the law and a "shaykh" called Salem
al-Rifai who provided support to gunmen, adding that he also met MP Khalid
al-Zahir who supports the gunmen in Tripoli.

While in Tripoli, he and his cohorts were given weapons by a "shaykh" called
Mazen Jbara, and they took part in the attack on Jabal Mohsen.

Afterwards, he was part in smuggling weapons to Syria, serving as a middle man
and giving 12 rifles and a night-vision scope to a smuggler along with USD 1,200
which were sent to Nazir Mando in Homs.

Al-Muhammad also travelled to Jordan from Lebanon, meeting several opposition
figures through Zaki al-Droubi and Abdelrahim Darawsheh, and that the latter
organized protests in front of the Syrian embassy in Amman where many opposition
figures met in addition to Yasser Abu Hilaleh, the director of Al-Jazeera
office.

Al-Muhammad asked Abu Hilaleh to provide him with communication devices to send
him reports from Syria, but the latter declined and gave him his phone number
instead to keep him informed.

He said that opposition figures and gunmen would register at the refugees
commission to receive money, and that he did likewise and received funds.

Al-Muhammad then went back to Lebanon then returned to Homs, carrying three
Thuraya satellite phones sent by Amin Mando to his brother. He remained in Homs
for seven days then returned to Lebanon, and was once against asked to return to
Homs to deliver two Thuraya phones and USD 20,000 to Nazir.

In April, Al-Muhammad left Homs for Damascus to meet with opposition figures
including Mansur al-Atasi, who introduced him to a man in al-Hajar al-Aswad area
and another in al-Midan, and he offered to provide weapons for the two areas.

Source: SANA news agency website, Damascus in English 7 Jul 12

LOAD-DATE: July 8, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2012 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              458 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                                Wales on Sunday

                                  July 8, 2012
                                  1st Edition

LONDON TERRORISM ATTACK

SECTION: FEATURES; Pg. 25

LENGTH: 1 words



HIGHLIGHT: WORLD champion Casey Stoner mastered a drying track to take pole
position for today's German Moto GP at Sachsenring.

LOAD-DATE: July 8, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:  Professor John Tulloch emerged from the Edgware Road Tube on 7/7
bloodied... but alive

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: ws


                    Copyright 2012 Western Mail and Echo Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                              459 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                                Wales on Sunday

                                  July 8, 2012
                                  1st Edition

I STILL FEEL SO LUCKY TO BE ALIVE;
SEVEN YEARS ON, 7/7 VICTIM RELIVES HORROR OF  LONDON TERRORISM ATTACK

BYLINE: CIARAN JONES

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 24

LENGTH: 950 words


A SURVIVOR of the devastating 7/7 terrorist bombings which killed 52 people in
London in July 2005 yesterday relived the horrific moment he could have been
killed.

Speaking to Wales on Sunday on the seventh anniversary of the suicide bombings
on the London transport network, former Cardiff University academic Professor
John Tulloch said he still felt "so lucky" to be alive.

The sociology academic, who specialises in perceptions of risk and the fear of
crime, was working at Brunel University in London at the time of the attacks.

He had returned from a trip to Australia the weekend before the blasts, spending
his usual three days at the start of the week working at the university before
travelling back to his home in Penarth, in the Vale of Glamorgan.

But, in a break from routine, Prof Tulloch did not leave on the Wednesday night
as he had to attend a late meeting, instead deciding to catch an early train
back to the Welsh capital on the Thursday morning.

"I set off early as I wanted to get a full day's work done in Cardiff so I was
going to get the 9.15am train from Paddington," the 70-year-old said.

A woman stopped him close to Euston Square underground station to ask for
directions to Camden Town, causing him to narrowly miss a Tube train.

Prof Tulloch caught the next Circle Line service towards Paddington, getting in
to the second carriage to be close to the exit when he arrived.

He took a seat close to the door and piled up his roller case, laptop bag and
cabin bag around himself - unaware he was sat diagonally opposite suicide bomber
Mohammed Sidique Khan.

"As we just rolled out of Edgware Road I began to get up and push up from the
seats. I had all these bags - it wasn't as crowded as it had been, but I wanted
to get out first.

"I got up to get to the exit first as I had three bags to pick up but then I
thought it was too soon so I sat down again and then the bomb went off just
then.

"If I had been up on my feet a couple of paces nearer to the door - the door
Mohammed Sidique Khan was sat next to - I would have been blown to pieces. There
was a great deal of good fortune."

When the blast ripped through the carriage, killing six people, Prof Tulloch's
legs were shielded by his roller case and laptop bag which he believes saved his
legs - and possibly his life.

The explosion blew Prof Tulloch's glasses off and left him bloodied and injured,
his face pockmarked with shrapnel wounds and his shirt ripped open.

He described the 50 minutes he spent waiting in the carriage for the emergency
services as a "claustrophobic space with the most horrendous carnage - blood,
glass and darkness, the worst material reality".

The image of him emerging from Edgware Road station quickly became one of the
most recognisable photographs in the aftermath of the disaster.

But the way the picture has at times been used in the media - including on the
front page of a national tabloid endorsing new terrorism legislation - has at
times angered Prof Tulloch.

He described his latest book, published last week, as "a way of dealing with the
anger I felt at the way I was being used as a political football".

Using his academic expertise to write the book, titled Icons of War and Terror,
was like a form of "therapy" which prevented him becoming "bitter and twisted,"
said Prof Tulloch. The bomb left the father of two temporarily unable to walk
and with permanent damage to his hearing.

"For a year or so after the bombing I had some worries I had brain damage.

I was so close to the blast.

"I went to this psychologist who gave me tests and I wasn't doing very well on
short term memories of numbers, words and shapes.

"She said to me, this was about a year after the bombing, 'Two is the magic
number. It's two years you need to wait. If you're still like this in another
year's time we'll begin to think there's brain damage.' "For a year or so
afterwards I was quite concerned I did have brain damage. I even knocked back
the opportunity of a promotion at Brunel because I wasn't sure I could handle
it."

He also suffered with vertigo - so severely a passing car would cause him to
vomit - and continues to deal with the effects of post-traumatic stress
disorder.

"Compared with what I could have had - no limbs, no eyes or dead - it's so
little and just something I have to live with," he said.

"One of the great things is having all my limbs. There's not been a day gone by
that I haven't actually thought about that. Walking in [the Blue Mountains in
Australia] or on the beach and pier here are things I couldn't have done."

He added: "Somehow I was so fortunate.

I pat my legs and think I was just so lucky."

Remarkably, the 7/7 attack was the second terrorist bombing Prof Tulloch has
survived after an IRA blast in Bristol which left more than a dozen people
injured in December 1974.

He had flown back from his first academic job, based in Australia, with his wife
to visit her parents. On the day they arrived, the couple decided to go to their
favourite Indian restaurant.

Prof Tulloch, who was born in India, said: "We were half-way through our
starters when there was a bloody great explosion outside. Nothing happened at
that point to the restaurant but a lot of people left very suddenly, got out
fast, so there were just a few [customers] still left.

"We were determined to stay - we reckoned we had flown 30,000 miles for this
meal. Then a much bigger bomb went off."

The blast, from a bomb placed in the doorway of the adjoining shop, blew the
front of the restaurant in but Prof Tulloch and his wife escaped injury.

"We were deep enough in not to be hit by any of the flying glass or shrapnel. We
didn't get our meal."

LOAD-DATE: July 8, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:  The scene at Edgware Road seven years ago Prof Tulloch today Professor
John Tulloch emerged from the Edgware Road Tube on 7/7 bloodied... but alive

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: ws


                    Copyright 2012 Western Mail and Echo Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                              460 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring Middle East - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                              July 9, 2012 Monday

Two Algerian policemen injured in terrorist attack on Tizi Ouzou judicial police

LENGTH: 187 words


Text of report by Algerian electronic daily Tout sur l'Algerie website on 8 July

[Report by Djamila Amar: "Two Policemen Injured in the Attack on the Zemmouri
Judicial Police Mobile Brigade"]

Two policemen were wounded in the terrorist attack that was perpetrated during
the evening Saturday [7 July] on the headquarters of Zemmouri's Judicial Police
Mobile Brigade [BMPJ] east of Boumerdes, it was learnt this Sunday from local
sources. The armed attack took place at about 2200 hours. It was repelled by the
policemen, who responded vigorously, forcing the terrorists to beat a retreat
and flee, according to the same sources.

An investigation was launched by the security agencies to establish the
circumstances surrounding this attack and determine how the terrorists succeeded
in attacking a BMPJ [installation] this easily. The armed groups no longer
hesitate about committing dramatic attacks on the security forces' barracks.
This past 15 June, the Ouacifs BMPJ, in the province of Tizi Ouzou, was bombed
by terrorists with the help of a hebheb (homemade mortar).

Source: Tout sur l'Algerie website, in French 8 Jul 12

LOAD-DATE: July 9, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2012 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              461 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                   MailOnline

                        July 9, 2012 Monday 5:59 PM GMT

Tower block residents fighting to keep Olympic defence missiles off their roof
claim they would be put at risk of a terror attack

BYLINE: LEON WATSON

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 955 words



     ·    Residents say their human rights have been breached
     ·    They claim they were not consulted fairly and properly over the
          proposals


Plans to station surface-to-air missiles on the roof of a tower block during the
Olympics could expose residents to a terrorist attack, the High Court was told
today.

Residents of the Fred Wigg Tower in Leytonstone, east London, are fighting to
prevent the ground-based air defence system being deployed above their heads.

They are applying for permission to seek judicial review on the grounds their
human rights have been breached because they were not consulted fairly and
properly over the proposals.

Marc Willers, representing the residents, told a judge: 'It is the unprecedented
siting of a military base or missile site in peace time on English soil that
brings us to this court.'

He said of the residents: 'They have a fully justified fear that installation or
deployment of the missile system on the roof of the Fred Wigg Tower gives rise
to the additional risk that the tower itself may become the focus of a terrorist
attack.'

Mr Willers said the Ministry of Defence (MoD) was suggesting the fear was
unjustified when one looked at it from an objective point of view.

But Mr Willers told Mr Justice Haddon-Cave, sitting at London's High Court: 'We
would submit that your lordship can come to the conclusion, and should come to
the conclusion, that that fear is not just genuine and legitimate but justified
given the nature of the forthcoming occasion - the Olympic Games - and given the
nature of the deployment and the current threat level, which is said to be
'substantial''.

Mr Willers said such a potential attack by terrorists might be no more than 'to
make a statement - an evil statement, but a statement nevertheless'.

Martin Howe, senior partner with solicitors Howe and Co, who are instructed by
the local residents' association, said before today's hearing tenants of the
block's 117 flats, which are home to hundreds of children, were 'very afraid' of
the proposals.

Defence Secretary Philip Hammond is accused by the association of breaching
Article 8 and Article 1 of Protocol 1 of the European Convention on Human
Rights, which protect an individual's right to private life and peaceful
enjoyment of their home.

The MoD is also accused of failing to carry out an equality impact assessment
(EIA) to take into account the needs of disabled residents.

If they are given permission for a full judicial review hearing, the residents
are expected to seek an injunction prohibiting missile deployment until their
legal challenge is heard.

Ministry of Defence officials plan to deploy the weapons across six sites in the
capital.

The missiles, including rapier and high-velocity systems, will be in place from
mid-July, the MoD confirmed last week.

A helicopter carrier, HMS Ocean, will also be moored in the River Thames and RAF
Typhoon jets will be stationed ready at RAF Northolt and Puma helicopters at a
Territorial Army centre in Ilford.

Ministry of Defence officials plan to deploy the weapons across six sites in the
capital.

The missiles, including rapier and high-velocity systems, will be in place from
mid-July, the MoD confirmed last week.

A helicopter carrier, HMS Ocean, will also be moored in the River Thames and RAF
Typhoon jets will be stationed ready at RAF Northolt and Puma helicopters at a
Territorial Army centre in Ilford.

The other sites chosen to guard against any Olympic air threat are the Lexington
Building in Tower Hamlets, east London; Blackheath Common and Oxleas Wood, both
in south-east London; William Girling Reservoir in the Lea Valley reservoir
chain in Enfield; and Barn Hill at Netherhouse Farm in Epping Forest.

The Defence Secretary says the ground-based air defence systems are 'just one
part of a comprehensive, multi-layered air security plan' which would provide
'both reassurance and a powerful deterrent'.

They would go ahead despite objections from a 'small number of activists', he
said.

A Ministry of Defence spokesman said: 'The Government has reserved the right to
extend the airspace restrictions, and the deployment of military assets,
including ground-based air defence, if an assessment of the threat level
warrants it.'

Today in court, Mr Willers accused the MoD of being 'extremely complacent' about
the risk of the Fred Wigg Tower being targeted by terrorists, saying it was
reasonable to infer from the evidence 'that the risk is very real'.

Allegations that a terrorist attack on the tower was a real threat were rejected
by David Forsdick, appearing on behalf of the Defence Secretary and MoD.

Mr Forsdick told the court: 'The MoD, intelligence agencies and the Metropolitan
Police do not consider there is any credible threat to the Fred Wigg Tower from
terrorism.'

He said that view was supported by a witness statement from Dr Campbell
McCafferty, head of UK counter-terrorism at the MoD.

The court also had evidence from General Sir Nick Parker, who had overall
responsibility for national security in respect of liaison with civil
authorities.

Both the civil and military arms of the MoD were telling the court 'in no
uncertain terms' there was no credible threat, Mr Forsdick told the judge.

Mr Willers said it was now probably too late for a full consultation process to
be ordered.

He argued that those residents who wanted it should still be given the option of
being relocated away from their homes during the Olympics.

But Mr Forsdick said the missile deployment was in pursuit of a legitimate aim -
national security and defence of the realm.

He argued that it was 'legitimate and proportionate', and the MoD was not
legally obliged to relocate residents or offer them compensation.

The judge said he would give his ruling at 10.30am tomorrow.

LOAD-DATE: July 10, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDM


                   Copyright 2012 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              462 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                                  Morning Star

                              July 9, 2012 Monday

Missile residents fear 'trophy' terror attack

BYLINE: Rory MacKinnon at the High Court

SECTION: BRITAIN

LENGTH: 410 words


The High Court heard that officials treatment of east London residents had been
"wholly disingenous." The tower is just one of six sites across the capital
picked by the Ministry of Defence to fire the missiles from in case of a
September 11 2001-style terrorist attack on the Games. The scheme, which was
kept quiet until a journalist living at one of the missile sites received a
leaflet in the post, has been bitterly opposed by residents who say they have
been exploited with no consultation.

Barrister Marc Willers, representing residents' group Harrow Community Support,
told the court the issue went right back to the 17th-century "petition of right"
against billeting of soldiers in civilian homes. He said the law was clear:
protecting the country doesn't give the government "carte blanche." Meanwhile
there was no evidence that Defence Secretary Philip Hammond had considered
relocating residents, he said - and several now feared they could be victims of
a "trophy" terrorist bomb plot. "For the defendant to ignore that risk is wholly
disingenuous and demonstrates contempt for the complainants." He said that, with
seven years to prepare, the army could have simply built a temporary structure
in nearby Wanstead Park. "It cannot be beyond the expertise of the Royal
Engineers ... to construct a gantry or scaffold to take the weight of three or
four men and a handheld missile. "Indeed it would avoid the risks - whatever
they may be - associated with using a block of flats." But David Forsdick,
speaking for the defence, said national security operations did not have a
statutory duty to consult. But the court could take it on trust that human
rights were "at the forefront" of the MoD's risk assessment, which it refuses to
show to anyone. There was no risk of the missiles exploding until they were in
the air, he said, and relocating residents was unnecessary as military
intelligence did not believe there were any plots to bomb the launch sites.
"There isn't a credible threat to the Olympics at all. "Of this form," he
hastily added. Nor could the army build a temporary tower, he said, as it would
have to be 16 storeys tall and ready by midnight on Friday when the five other
launch sites go active. Any consultation would be meaningless as the ministry
had already reached its decision, he added. "There's nowhere else for it to go."
Presiding judge Mr Justice Haddon-Cave is expected to offer a ruling tomorrow.
rorym@peoples-press.com

LOAD-DATE: July 9, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


               Copyright 2012 People's Press Printing Society Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                              463 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                        July 9, 2012 Monday 12:36 PM GMT

Olympics missile plan 'put residents at risk of terrorism';
Plans to station surface-to-air missiles on the roof of a tower block during the
Olympics could expose residents to a terrorist attack, the High Court was told
today.

BYLINE: By Telegraph reporters

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 730 words


Residents of the Fred Wigg Tower in Leytonstone, east London, are fighting to
prevent the ground-based air defence system being deployed above their heads.

They are applying for permission to seek judicial review on the grounds their
human rights have been breached because they were not consulted fairly and
properly over the proposals.

Marc Willers, representing the residents, told a judge: "It is the unprecedented
siting of a military base or missile site in peace time on English soil that
brings us to this court."

He said of the residents: "They have a fully justified fear that installation or
deployment of the missile system on the roof of the Fred Wigg Tower gives rise
to the additional risk that the tower itself may become the focus of a terrorist
attack."

Mr Willers said the Ministry of Defence (MoD) was suggesting the fear was
unjustified when one looked at it from an objective point of view.

But Mr Willers told Mr Justice Haddon-Cave, sitting at London's High Court: "We
would submit that your lordship can come to the conclusion, and should come to
the conclusion, that that fear is not just genuine and legitimate but justified
given the nature of the forthcoming occasion - the Olympic Games - and given the
nature of the deployment and the current threat level, which is said to be
'substantial"'.

Mr Willers said such a potential attack by terrorists might be no more than "to
make a statement - an evil statement, but a statement nevertheless".

Is the MoD right to place missiles on tower blocks during the Olympic Games?

Martin Howe, senior partner with solicitors Howe and Co, who are instructed by
the local residents' association, said before today's hearing tenants of the
block's 117 flats, which are home to hundreds of children, were "very afraid" of
the proposals.

Defence Secretary Philip Hammond is accused by the association of breaching
Article 8 and Article 1 of Protocol 1 of the European Convention on Human
Rights, which protect an individual's right to private life and peaceful
enjoyment of their home.

The MoD is also accused of failing to carry out an equality impact assessment
(EIA) to take into account the needs of disabled residents.

If they are given permission for a full judicial review hearing, the residents
are expected to seek an injunction prohibiting missile deployment until their
legal challenge is heard.

Ministry of Defence officials plan to deploy the weapons across six sites in the
capital.

The missiles, including rapier and high-velocity systems, will be in place from
mid-July, the MoD confirmed last week.

A helicopter carrier, HMS Ocean, will also be moored in the River Thames and RAF
Typhoon jets will be stationed ready at RAF Northolt and Puma helicopters at a
Territorial Army centre in Ilford.

The other sites chosen to guard against any Olympic air threat are the Lexington
Building in Tower Hamlets, east London; Blackheath Common and Oxleas Wood, both
in south-east London; William Girling Reservoir in the Lea Valley reservoir
chain in Enfield; and Barn Hill at Netherhouse Farm in Epping Forest.

The Defence Secretary says the ground-based air defence systems are "just one
part of a comprehensive, multi-layered air security plan" which would provide
"both reassurance and a powerful deterrent".

They would go ahead despite objections from a "small number of activists", he
said.

A Ministry of Defence spokesman said: "The Government has reserved the right to
extend the airspace restrictions, and the deployment of military assets,
including ground-based air defence, if an assessment of the threat level
warrants it."

Patrick Mercer MP, a former infantry officer, told BBC Radio 4 there was a
precedent with the placing of an anti-aircraft battery nearby in the the Blitz
and there may have been an "oversight" in failing to consult with residents.

But he said: "Diplomacy is clearly important, but not as important as the threat
of a hijacked aircraft come on a very busy flight path and putting that aircraft
into a target. That would be devastating."

He added: "The national good is more important than the inconvenience these
individuals will suffer for a few weeks."

Today in court, Mr Willers accused the MoD of being "extremely complacent" about
the risk of the Fred Wigg Tower being targeted by terrorists, saying it was
reasonable to infer from the evidence "that the risk is very real".

LOAD-DATE: July 10, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTNS


                  Copyright 2012 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              464 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                            The Independent (London)

                             July 10, 2012 Tuesday
                                 Fourth Edition

Missiles 'expose tower block to terror attack';
COURTS

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 28

LENGTH: 52 words


Plans to station surface-to-air missiles on the roof of a tower block during the
Olympics could expose residents to a terrorist attack, the High Court was told
yesterday.

Residents of the Fred Wigg Tower in Leytonstone, east London, have applied for a
judicial review of the deployment. A judgment is expected today.

LOAD-DATE: July 9, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: IA


                      Copyright 2012 Independent Print Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                              465 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                   MailOnline

                       July 10, 2012 Tuesday 12:39 AM GMT

Tower block residents fighting to keep Olympic defence missiles off their roof
claim they would be put at risk of a terror attack

BYLINE: LEON WATSON

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 1067 words



     ·    Residents say their human rights have been breached
     ·    They claim they were not consulted fairly and properly over the
          proposals


Plans to station surface-to-air missiles on the roof of a tower block during the
Olympics could expose residents to a terrorist attack, the High Court was told
today.

Residents of the Fred Wigg Tower in Leytonstone, east London, are fighting to
prevent the ground-based air defence system being deployed above their heads.

They are applying for permission to seek judicial review on the grounds their
human rights have been breached because they were not consulted fairly and
properly over the proposals.

Marc Willers, representing the residents, told a judge: 'It is the unprecedented
siting of a military base or missile site in peace time on English soil that
brings us to this court.'

He said of the residents: 'They have a fully justified fear that installation or
deployment of the missile system on the roof of the Fred Wigg Tower gives rise
to the additional risk that the tower itself may become the focus of a terrorist
attack.'

Mr Willers said the Ministry of Defence (MoD) was suggesting the fear was
unjustified when one looked at it from an objective point of view.

But Mr Willers told Mr Justice Haddon-Cave, sitting at London's High Court: 'We
would submit that your lordship can come to the conclusion, and should come to
the conclusion, that that fear is not just genuine and legitimate but justified
given the nature of the forthcoming occasion - the Olympic Games - and given the
nature of the deployment and the current threat level, which is said to be
'substantial''.

Mr Willers said such a potential attack by terrorists might be no more than 'to
make a statement - an evil statement, but a statement nevertheless'.

Martin Howe, senior partner with solicitors Howe and Co, who are instructed by
the local residents' association, said before today's hearing tenants of the
block's 117 flats, which are home to hundreds of children, were 'very afraid' of
the proposals.

Defence Secretary Philip Hammond is accused by the association of breaching
Article 8 and Article 1 of Protocol 1 of the European Convention on Human
Rights, which protect an individual's right to private life and peaceful
enjoyment of their home.

The MoD is also accused of failing to carry out an equality impact assessment
(EIA) to take into account the needs of disabled residents.

If they are given permission for a full judicial review hearing, the residents
are expected to seek an injunction prohibiting missile deployment until their
legal challenge is heard.

Ministry of Defence officials plan to deploy the weapons across six sites in the
capital.

The missiles, including rapier and high-velocity systems, will be in place from
mid-July, the MoD confirmed last week.

A helicopter carrier, HMS Ocean, will also be moored in the River Thames and RAF
Typhoon jets will be stationed ready at RAF Northolt and Puma helicopters at a
Territorial Army centre in Ilford.

Ministry of Defence officials plan to deploy the weapons across six sites in the
capital.

The missiles, including rapier and high-velocity systems, will be in place from
mid-July, the MoD confirmed last week.

A helicopter carrier, HMS Ocean, will also be moored in the River Thames and RAF
Typhoon jets will be stationed ready at RAF Northolt and Puma helicopters at a
Territorial Army centre in Ilford.

The other sites chosen to guard against any Olympic air threat are the Lexington
Building in Tower Hamlets, east London; Blackheath Common and Oxleas Wood, both
in south-east London; William Girling Reservoir in the Lea Valley reservoir
chain in Enfield; and Barn Hill at Netherhouse Farm in Epping Forest.

The Defence Secretary says the ground-based air defence systems are 'just one
part of a comprehensive, multi-layered air security plan' which would provide
'both reassurance and a powerful deterrent'.

They would go ahead despite objections from a 'small number of activists', he
said.

A Ministry of Defence spokesman said: 'The Government has reserved the right to
extend the airspace restrictions, and the deployment of military assets,
including ground-based air defence, if an assessment of the threat level
warrants it.'

Today in court, Mr Willers accused the MoD of being 'extremely complacent' about
the risk of the Fred Wigg Tower being targeted by terrorists, saying it was
reasonable to infer from the evidence 'that the risk is very real'.

Allegations that a terrorist attack on the tower was a real threat were rejected
by David Forsdick, appearing on behalf of the Defence Secretary and MoD.

Mr Forsdick told the court: 'The MoD, intelligence agencies and the Metropolitan
Police do not consider there is any credible threat to the Fred Wigg Tower from
terrorism.'

He said that view was supported by a witness statement from Dr Campbell
McCafferty, head of UK counter-terrorism at the MoD.

The court also had evidence from General Sir Nick Parker, who had overall
responsibility for national security in respect of liaison with civil
authorities.

BUS STAFF WIN OLYMPIC OFFER

Bus staff in London have been made an offer for working the Olympics, raising
hopes that further strikes can be avoided.

Members of the Unite union staged a 24-hour walkout last month over a claim for
a £500 bonus.

A planned stoppage last week was called off to allow further talks but the
threat of a strike on July 24 remained.

A spokesman for Acas, which works to resolve employment disputes, said bus
companies had made an offer, 'the details of which will be reported back to
representatives tomorrow.

'The details of the offer remain confidential until this time.'

Both the civil and military arms of the MoD were telling the court 'in no
uncertain terms' there was no credible threat, Mr Forsdick told the judge.

Mr Willers said it was now probably too late for a full consultation process to
be ordered.

He argued that those residents who wanted it should still be given the option of
being relocated away from their homes during the Olympics.

But Mr Forsdick said the missile deployment was in pursuit of a legitimate aim -
national security and defence of the realm.

He argued that it was 'legitimate and proportionate', and the MoD was not
legally obliged to relocate residents or offer them compensation.

The judge said he would give his ruling at 10.30am tomorrow.

LOAD-DATE: July 13, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDM


                   Copyright 2012 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              466 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                   Metro (UK)

                             July 10, 2012 Tuesday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

Missile tower homes 'are at risk of Games terror attack'

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 25

LENGTH: 118 words


PEOPLE living in a tower block could be exposed to a terrorist attack if
surface-to-air missiles are placed on its roof during the Olympics, a court
heard yesterday. They claim the plans to install the weapons as security during
the Games breach their human rights. Marc Willers, for those living in Fred Wigg
tower in Leytonstone, east London, told the High Court in London: 'It's the
unprecedented siting of a military base or missile site in peacetime on English
soil that brings us to this court.' People face the 'additional risk that the
tower itself may become the focus of a terrorist attack,' he added. The Ministry
of Defence has rejected the claims. The judge's ruling is due to be made this
morning.

LOAD-DATE: July 10, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Sam Weale will be the oldest modern pentathlete to represent Britain at
the London 2012 games. The 30-year-old, pictured getting his adidas Team GB kit,
won silver at the 2010 European Championships.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: MTR


                   Copyright 2012 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              467 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                    Scotsman

                             July 10, 2012 Tuesday

No risk of terror attack' on surface-to-air missles stationed on tower blocks
during Olympic Games, rules judge

LENGTH: 822  words


RESIDENTS in London have lost their legal battle to stop surface-to-air missiles
being stationed on residential tower blocks during the Olympics.

A judge at the High Court ruled today that they did not have a case.

o Residents of east London tower blocks have lost a case citing missiles as
possible focus of terror attack

o Residents claimed presence of missiles breached their human rights

Tenants of the Fred Wigg Tower in east London have raised fears the missiles
could be the focus of a terror attack.

But the Ministry of Defence has said there is "no credible threat".

That claim was backed by police and security services.

The block is one of six sites in the capital where missiles, including rapier
and high-velocity systems, will be deployed to protect Games venues.

The Fred Wigg residents applied for permission to seek judicial review. They
protested there has been a "disproportionate interference" with their human
rights, and they were not consulted fairly and properly over the siting of the
ground-based air defence system.

Their lawyers argued during a one-day hearing yesterday that those who wanted to
move out should at least be relocated in hotels by the MoD for the duration of
the Games, or a gantry should be erected away from the block to take the missile
system.

But today their legal challenge was rejected by Mr Justice Haddon-Cave, sitting
at London's High Court, who said: "The law and the facts militate against the
claim for judicial review.

"In my judgment the MoD's voluntary engagement with the community and residents
in this matter were immaculate."

The judge said residents had expressed "shock, anxiety and worry" over the
prospect of missiles being stationed at the tower.

But they had been under "something of a misapprehension" about the nature of the
equipment to be deployed and the risks deployment would bring.

Yesterday Marc Willers, representing the residents, told the court: "It is the
unprecedented siting of a military base or missile site in peace time on English
soil that brings us to this court."

He said of the residents: "They have a fully justified fear that installation or
deployment of the missile system on the roof of the Fred Wigg Tower gives rise
to the additional risk that the tower itself may become the focus of a terrorist
attack."

The fear was not just genuine but justified "given the nature of the forthcoming
occasion - the Olympic Games - and given the nature of the deployment and the
current threat level, which is said to be substantial"'.

Mr Willers accused the Defence Secretary of breaching Article 8 and Article 1 of
Protocol 1 of the European Convention on Human Rights, which protect an
individual's right to private and family life and the peaceful enjoyment of
their home.

He also argued the MoD failed to conduct a proper equality impact assessment
(EIA), taking into account the needs of disabled residents.

David Forsdick, representing Defence Secretary Philip Hammond, said top Ministry
of Defence officials, UK intelligence agencies and the Metropolitan Police had
all rejected the possibility of an attack on the Fred Wigg block.

He said Dr Campbell McCafferty, head of UK counter-terrorism at the MoD, and
General Sir Nick Parker, who has overall responsibility for national security in
respect of liaison with civil authorities, had both stated "in no uncertain
terms" there was no credible threat.

Mr Forsdick argued Mr Hammond was under no statutory duty to consult, although
an impact assessment had been carried out and residents' human rights taken into
consideration.

But residents had no legitimate expectation that they would be consulted on
issues involving the defence of the realm and national security.

The decision over where to position the missiles was taken at the "highest
levels after rigorous scrutiny" and signed off by the prime minister, deputy
prime minister, home secretary and defence secretary.

Mr Hammond was "the master of procedures" and entitled to conclude there was no
alternative to the use of the Fred Wigg Tower.

Defence of the realm was a "legitimate and proportionate" aim, and the MoD was
not legally obliged to relocate residents or offer them compensation.

Mr Willers accused the MoD of "displaying an element of contempt for the
concerns and views of the residents".

He said an assault might not be aimed at all the missile sites being set to
protect the Games but there might be an attack on the block that was no more
than a bid "to make an evil statement - but a statement nevertheless".

The Defence Secretary has described the ground-based air defence systems as
"just one part of a comprehensive, multi-layered air security plan" which would
provide "both reassurance and a powerful deterrent" during the Games.

The security plan includes a helicopter carrier, HMS Ocean, being moored in the
River Thames, with RAF Typhoon jets stationed ready at RAF Northolt and Puma
helicopters at a Territorial Army centre in Ilford.

LOAD-DATE: July 11, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: STTS


                       Copyright 2012 Johnston Press Plc
                              All Rights Reserved

                              468 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                       July 10, 2012 Tuesday 3:55 PM GMT

Terror suspects allegedly planned to attack EDL;
A suspected terror group allegedly planned to attack an English Defence League
march with a pipe bomb, guns and machetes, a court heard.

BYLINE: By Tom Whitehead Security Editor

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 221 words


A car was stopped by police on June 30 on the MI near Sheffield in a routine
check and impounded on suspicion of having no insurance.

Earlier that day, the EDL had held a demonstration in nearby Dewsbury.

Three men appeared in court yesterday charged with the preparation of terrorism
acts. Another four men continue to be questioned by police.

Jewel Uddin 26, Omar Mohammed Khan, 27, and Mohammed Hasseen, 23, all from
Birmingham, appeared at Westminster Magistrates' Court yesterday.

Dressed in black sweatshirts and dark trousers, they spoke only to confirm their
names and ages.

The court heard how on June 30 police impounded a Renault Laguna after it was
stopped on the M1 motorway heading south.

A routine search two days later at the pound allegedly unearthed sawn off
shotguns, the makings of a pipebomb containing ball bearings and nails and a
cache of swords, knives and machetes.

There was also a note that allegedly described the EDL as the "enemies of
Allah".

The three men were arrested the day after the discovery in the car.

They remanded in custody to appear at the Old Bailey on July 31.

Four other men were also arrested last week and remain in custody.

Officers have until Wednesday to charge, release or apply for a warrant of
further detention for three of them.

The fourth man can be held until Thursday.

LOAD-DATE: July 12, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTNS


                  Copyright 2012 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              469 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                 thetimes.co.uk

                       July 10, 2012 Tuesday 12:07 AM GMT

Get off my roof: tower block tenants take on MoD;
Putting missiles on a tower block during the Olympics could increase the chance
of a terrorist attack on residents, the High Court was told

BYLINE: Fay Schlesinger

SECTION: OLYMPICS

LENGTH: 377 words


Putting surface-to-air missiles on top of a tower block during the Olympics
could increase the chance of a terrorist attack on its residents, the High Court
was told yesterday.

Council tenants from the 17-storey Fred Wigg Tower in East London are opposing a
Ministry of Defence proposal for an air defence system that would deploy above
their heads in the event of an airborne terror threat.

They learnt of the plan only when leaflets were posted through their doors in
April, after the local council and MoD had already agreed to "use of the roof of
their homes as an explosive missile battery", their lawyers said.

Terrorists could attempt to "make an evil statement" by targeting the building,
the group argued. The residents' association is applying for permission to seek
a judicial review on the ground that the lack of consultation breached members'
human rights. A decision is expected today. If successful, the residents want to
be relocated until the end of the Games.

Lawyers for Philip Hammond, the Defence Secretary, told a judge that UK
intelligence agencies, defence officials and the Metropolitan Police had
concluded there was no "credible threat". Tenants had no legitimate expectation
that they would be consulted on issues involving the defence of the realm and
national security, lawyers for Mr Hammond and the MoD said.

But Marc Willers, representing the tenants, told Mr Justice Haddon-Cave:
"[Residents] have a fully justified fear that installation or deployment of the
missile system on the roof of the Fred Wigg Tower gives rise to the additional
risk that the tower itself may become the focus of a terrorist attack."

The MoD is accused of failing to carry out an "equality impact assessment" to
assess the needs of disabled residents.

The Fred Wigg Tower is one of six sites across the capital where weapons are
proposed to guard against air threats during the Olympics. HMS Ocean will also
be moored in the Thames, RAF Typhoon jets will be stationed at RAF Northolt and
Puma helicopters at a Territorial Army centre in Ilford.

The MoD said: "The Government has reserved the right to extend the airspace
restrictions, and the deployment of military assets, including ground-based air
defence, if an assessment of the threat level warrants it."

LOAD-DATE: July 13, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBTTO


                     Copyright 2012 News International Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                              470 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                               The Sun (England)

                            July 11, 2012 Wednesday
                                   Edition 2;
                                National Edition

3 'PLOTTED TO ATTACK EDL';
Terror rap on bomb and guns in car

BYLINE: SIMON HUGHES

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 175 words


THREE terror suspects appeared in court yesterday accused of plotting to attack
an English Defence League rally.

Omar Mohammed Khan, 27, and Jewel Uddin, 26, were stopped by police on the M1
near Sheffield for having no insurance.

It was the same day an EDL rally was taking place in Dewsbury, West Yorks. The
pair were allowed to go, but the car was taken to a pound.

But during a routine check two days later, an explosive device containing ball
bearings and nails was found with guns, ammunition and a bag with machetes,
swords and knives.

Khan, Uddin, and Mohammed Hasseen, 23 - found at an address with Khan - were
arrested. They appeared before Westminster Magistrates' Court in London
yesterday.

It is alleged that between May 1 and July 4 this year they engaged in conduct in
preparation for an act or acts of terrorism with the intention of committing
such acts.

None indicated pleas to the charge. The three spoke only to confirm their names
and addresses.

They were remanded in custody to appear at the Old Bailey on July 31.

s.hughes@the-sun.co.uk

LOAD-DATE: July 11, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: SUN


                    Copyright 2012 NEWS GROUP NEWSPAPERS LTD
                              All Rights Reserved

                              471 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                      July 11, 2012 Wednesday 3:54 PM GMT

September 11 attacks 'most memorable TV moment in last 50 years';
The September 11 terrorist attack on the World Trade Center is the most
memorable moment shared by US TV viewers in the last 50 years, a study has
found.

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 549 words


The only thing that came close was John F. Kennedy's assassination and its
aftermath in 1963, but that was only for people aged 55 and over who experienced
those events as they happened instead of replayed as an historical artefact.

The survey, by Sony Electronics and the Nielsen TV research company, rank TV
moments for their impact, not just by asking people if they remembered watching
them, but if they recalled where they watched it, who they were with and whether
they talked to other people about what they had seen.

By that measure, 9/11 attacks were nearly twice as impactful as the
second-ranked moment, which was the coverage of Hurricane Katrina in 2005.
Minutes after the first aeroplane struck the World Trade Centre on a late summer
morning, television networks began covering the events continuously and stayed
with them for days.

The other biggest TV events, in order, were the 1995 verdict in O.J. Simpson's
murder trial, the Challenger space shuttle explosion in 1986 and the death of
Osama bin Laden last year, the survey found.

What is the most memorable 'TV moment' in the last 50 years?

Sony was interested in the study for clues on consumer interests and behaviours
and found "that television is really the grandmother of all the social devices,"
said Brian Siegel, vice president of television business for the company.

Going into the study, Mr Siegel said he had anticipated that entertainment
events like the final episode of "M-A-S-H" (ranked No. 42), the Beatles'
appearance on "The Ed Sullivan Show" (No. 43) and the "Who shot J. R.?" episode
of "Dallas" (No. 44) would rank higher. Instead, television coverage of news
events made the biggest difference in viewers' lives.

The Super Bowl is annually the most-watched TV event, with this year's game
between the New York Giants and New England Patriots setting an all-time record
with 111 million viewers. The memories do not seem to linger, however: the
top-ranked Super Bowl Sunday event in Sony's study came in 2004 and had nothing
to do with football. It was Janet Jackson's wardrobe malfunction (No. 26).

Men and women agreed on the three most impactful television events - Sept. 11,
Katrina and Simpson. After that, some of the interests diverged.

For example, women ranked the 1997 funeral of Princess Diana as the fourth most
memorable event, while men put that at No. 23. Women ranked last year's death of
Whitney Houston at No. 5, with men judging it No. 21.

Similarly, the 2003 bombing of Baghdad at the start of the Iraq War was seen as
the No. 14 most impactful moment by men, and No. 37 among women. Men were also
far more struck by boxer Mike Tyson biting off a piece of Evander Holyfield's
ear.

The passage of time has also diluted some moments once thought as unforgettable,
simply because succeeding generations have no personal memory of them. Man's
first moon landing in 1969 ranked No. 21.

Age also made a big difference in the survey. JFK's assassination was the
second-most impactful TV event among people 55 and over, while for those between
18 and 34, it was the death of Osama bin Laden.

The study was based on an online questionnaire of 1,077 adults selected as a
scientific sample from among Nielsen's panel of people measured for television
ratings. It was conducted between Feb. 15-17 this year.

LOAD-DATE: July 12, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTNS


                  Copyright 2012 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              472 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                 thetimes.co.uk

                      July 11, 2012 Wednesday 12:01 AM GMT

Terror suspects 'planned to attack EDL march'

BYLINE: Sean O'Neill, Crime Editor

SECTION: CRIME

LENGTH: 296 words


Three men detained in an anti-terrorist swoop last week appeared in court
yesterday charged in connection with an alleged plot to attack an English
Defence League rally.

Sawn-off shotguns, machetes and the components of a nail bomb were found after a
search of a Renault Laguna car which had been stopped on the M1 in South
Yorkshire.

The cache was in the boot of the car along with ten copies of a note attacking
"enemies of Allah" including the EDL, which had held a rally in Dewsbury, West
Yorkshire, on the day the car was stopped.

The weapons were found two days after the vehicle was impounded when staff at
the car pound opened the boot.

The discovery sparked a police operation which led to the arrests of six men in
the West Midlands and one in West Yorkshire.

Jewel Uddin 26, Omar Mohammed Khan, 27, and Mohammed Hasseen, 23, all from
Birmingham, appeared before Westminster Magistrates' Court, London, charged with
"engaging in conduct in preparation for an act or acts of terrorism with the
intention of committing such acts".

The alleged conduct includes manufacturing an improvised explosive device, the
acquisition of firearms and other weapons, and the purchase of motor vehicles
connected with their plans.

Mr Khan is alleged to have been the driver of the car which was stopped between
junctions 33 and 34 of the M1 near Rotherham.

All three men appeared in court wearing black sweatshirts and dark trousers, and
spoke only to confirm their names and addresses during the short hearing.

They were remanded in custody to appear at the Old Bailey on July 31.

Four other men were also arrested last week and remain in custody. Officers have
until today to charge, release or apply for a warrant of further detention for
three of them. The other man can be held until Thursday.

LOAD-DATE: July 12, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBTTO


                     Copyright 2012 News International Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                              473 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                              The Herald (Glasgow)

                             July 12, 2012 Thursday
                                   1 Edition

Terror attack trial evidence  jigsaw

BYLINE: NO BYLINE

SECTION: HS - NEWS; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 139 words


THE case against a man allegedly involved in a terror attack in Sweden is based
on  circumstantial evidence , a jury has been told.

Prosecutor Andrew Miller yesterday made his closing speech to jurors at the
trial of Nasserdine Menni at the High Court  in Glasgow.

Menni is charged with being part of a terrorist conspiracy along with Taimour
Adulwahab, who died in an explosion in Stockholm in December 2010.

Mr Miller said the trial was  like a jigsaw  with testimony that could be pieced
together.

The advocate depute added:  This is a case based entirely on circumstantial
evidence.

Mr Miller explained Menni was being prosecuted in Scotland as he had been living
in Glasgow at the time it is claimed he transferred money to allegedly fund
terrorism.

Menni s QC, William Taylor, will give his closing speech on Friday.

The trial continues.

LOAD-DATE: July 12, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: GH


                      Copyright 2012 Newsquest Media Group
                              All Rights Reserved

                              474 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                       July 12, 2012 Thursday 3:53 PM GMT

Irish and al Qaeda terrorists in Olympic threat;
Irish republican terrorists could attack the Olympics while American and Israeli
athletes may be a target for al Qaeda, MI5 fears.

BYLINE: By Tom Whitehead Security Editor

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 576 words


The security service has also warned that foreign rival factions or ethnic
groups could use the world stage of the Games to attack one another.

The threats emerged as a group of MPs said the "unprecedented pressure" the
Olympics has placed on the intelligence and security agencies has put the UK at
greater risk.

The parliamentary Intelligence and Security Committee (ISC) - which oversees the
work of MI5, MI6 and GCHQ - fears the focus on securing the summer event means
other vulnerable areas of the agencies' work are at risk of attack.

In its annual report, the ISC said Jonathan Evans, the director general of MI5,
had highlighted three potential treats to the Olympics.

There were:

: An attack by al Qaeda and its affiliates - particularly on US or Israeli
nationals.

: An attack or a hoax by Irish republican terrorist groups aimed at causing
disruption rather than mass casualties.

: Clashes between rival groups or ethnicities present in London during the Games
who would not normally be considered a security threat to the UK.

The committee heard that staff in the agencies had been taken off lower priority
areas of work so that they could concentrate on the potential threat to the
games.

MI5 is expecting double the normal volume of new intelligence leads - rising to
four times as much in peak periods.

A further burden had been imposed by the need to check the 540,000 applications
for accreditation to the Games from those taking part and the fact MI5 had had
to undertake extensive briefings of foreign intelligence agencies representing
more 200 nations.

The report concluded: "We recognise that the Security Service (MI5) has taken
all possible measures to make available the necessary resources during the
period of the Olympic and Paralympic Games, but remain concerned at the risk
that is being taken in some areas and the vulnerability of the UK at this
critical period.

"The Olympic and Paralympic Games have placed all three agencies (particularly
the Security Service) under unprecedented pressure this year."

A Home Office spokesman said: "The Security Service prioritises its resources to
meet the highest threats day in and day out and has made lengthy and thorough
preparations to meet this summer's security challenges.

"The focus of the Government is to deliver a safe and secure Olympic and
Paralympic Games that London, the UK and the world can enjoy."

In separate matters, the committee said the Government's decision to abandon
control orders for terrorist suspects has increased the risk to national
security.

It said it was "concerned" about the replacement of control orders with the less
draconian Terrorism Prevention and Investigation Measures (TPIMs).

It emerged at the weekend that one terror suspect, who was previously banned
from London under a control order - had been able to move back to the capital
under a Tpim.

He then allegedly breached his new order by travelling through the Olympic park
site on five separate occasions.

The Committee also said MI6 had been "taken by surprise" by the Arab Spring and
had then failed to anticipate how the unrest would spread so quickly.

And the MPs said it was "extraordinary" that MI6 had failed to spot that
secondee Gareth Williams had been missing from work for a week.

Mr Williams' naked body was found in a locked holdall in his London flat in
August 2010. An inquest earlier this year concluded he was "on the balance of
probabilities" killed unlawfully.

LOAD-DATE: July 13, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTNS


                  Copyright 2012 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              475 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                          The Daily Telegraph (London)

                              July 13, 2012 Friday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

Al-Qaeda and Irish terrorists could attack Games, says MI5

BYLINE: Tom Whitehead

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 230 words


IRISH republican terrorists could attack the Olympics while American and Israeli
athletes may be a target for al-Qaeda, MI5 fears.

The security service has also warned that foreign rival factions or ethnic
groups could use the world stage of the Games to attack one another.

The threats emerged as a group of MPs said the "unprecedented pressure" the
Olympics has placed on the intelligence and security agencies has put the UK at
greater risk.

The parliamentary Intelligence and Security Committee (ISC) - which oversees the
work of MI5, MI6 and GCHQ - fears the focus on securing the summer event means
other vulnerable areas of the agencies' work are at risk. In its annual report,
the ISC said Jonathan Evans, the director-general of MI5, had highlighted three
potential threats to the Olympics. They were:

An attack by al Qaeda and its affiliates - particularly on US or Israeli
nationals;

An attack or a hoax by Irish republican terrorist groups aimed at causing
disruption;

Clashes between rival groups or ethnicities.

The committee heard that staff in the agencies had been taken off lower priority
areas of work so that they could concentrate on the potential threats.

A Home Office spokesman said: "The Security Service prioritises its resources to
meet the highest threats day in and day out and has made lengthy and thorough
preparations to meet this summer's security challenges."

LOAD-DATE: July 13, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DTL


                  Copyright 2012 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              476 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                              Spenborough Guardian

                              July 13, 2012 Friday

Driver slashed in knife attack terror

LENGTH: 359  words


A TAXI driver was attacked with a knife by a man who tried to rob him.

Father-of-three Kamran Manzoor was left with cut arteries in his hand after the
man attacked him with a knife, demanding money.

Mr Manzoor, of Hill Top Estate, Heckmondwike, picked up the man from JD's
nightclub in Morley at around 2.40am on July 1.

The man got into Mr Manzoor's Skoda Octavia and asked to be taken to Cottingley.
He then asked the driver to stop on Cottingley Drive while he went to get the
fare from his house.

Mr Manzoor said: "He left his mobile phone in the car while he went to get the
money.

"When he came back to the car he had changed his top - he was wearing a black
t-shirt and now had a dark hoodie on. He took the knife out that was about 10
ins long and said give me money'.

"I was shocked, I couldn't believe it was happening. He tried to put the knife
towards my head and as I tried to move it I cut my hand."

The man then ran off in the direction of Dulverton Place.

Mr Manzoor said: "He ran off when he saw the blood on my hand. I think he was
maybe shocked himself. There was lots of blood and I called for an ambulance and
the police."

The driver's wife, Nazia, said: "He was in theatre for two hours and has had to
have plastic surgery on his hand.

"He won't be able to work for three months and there is little help when you're
self-employed.

"He has worked in Morley for nine years and this is the first time anything like
this has happened.

"He's scared of people now, just in case they have a knife. We all are. Even our
children."

Mr Manzoor's boss at Local Cars in Morley is considering a one-week boycott of
Cottingley following the attack, Mr Manzoor added.

He said the firm may refuse to send cars to the area to send a message that
violence against its drivers was unacceptable and to encourage witnesses to come
forward.

The suspect was described as white, 25-27 years old, about 6ft tall, of thin
build with short dark hair.

He was wearing a pair of blue jeans, a black t-shirt with a motif on the front
and he was carrying a white I LOVE JD's' t-shirt.

Anyone with information should contact Holbeck CID via 101 or call Crimestoppers
on 0800 555111.

LOAD-DATE: July 16, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: NYSG


                       Copyright 2012 Johnston Press Plc
                              All Rights Reserved

                              477 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring South Asia - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                             July 14, 2012 Saturday

Pakistan's Punjab minister says "solid evidence" to link India to terror attacks

LENGTH: 294 words


Text of report published by Pakistani newspaper The Nation website on 14 July

Lahore: Punjab Law Minister Rana Sanaullah has said that the possibility of
Indian hand in terror attacks in the country cannot be ruled out.

"There is solid evidence to suggest that India is behind acts of terrorism in
the country," Sana told a press a conference on Friday [13 July].

The law minister said the recent incidents of terrorism in the Punjab were a
result of the restoration of NATO supplies, which his party opposed for not
being in accordance with the contents and spirit of the parliamentary
resolutions.

Talking about the Thursday's event, the minister expressed sorrow over the
incident and committed to bring the culprits to the law and award them exemplary
punishment. "The national academy operates under the Interior Minister, thus the
responsibility to ensure security of its under training personnel lies with it,"
Sana maintained.

The academy's director general never informed the Punjab government about the
presence of under training prison staff or asked for their security, Sana held.
He, however, said efforts were on for better coordination between provincial and
federal agencies. He added a joint investigation team had started collecting
evidence that would be sent to forensic lab for examination.

The provincial law minister assured the Khyber Pakhtunkhwa government that no
stone would be left unturned to know the truth behind the incident. Replying to
a question about the future of Prime Minister Raja Pervez Ashraf, he said the
decision on the prime minister would be taken according to the law and he might
meet the same fate as his predecessor, if he did not comply with the court's
orders.

Source: The Nation website, Islamabad, in English 14 Jul 12

LOAD-DATE: July 14, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2012 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              478 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                            Daily Post (North Wales)

                             July 14, 2012 Saturday
                              North Wales Edition

DRIVE OF TERROR;
THUGS JAILED FOR HORROR ATTACK  They offer man lift home... then kidnap him,
beat him up and leave him FULLSTO RY scarred for life P5

BYLINE: ERYL CRUMP

SECTION: NEWS; FRONT PAGE; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 54 words


FOUR thugs kidnapped a man and took him on a terrifying car ride before brutally
beating him up.

Aaron Lee Roberts, 26, Mark Anthony Hughes, 24, Daniel Alan Morgan, 22, and Sion
Evans, 19, all of Caernarfon, were jailed yesterday. One of them told victim
Mariuz Lyczak to phone his mum "to say goodbye", a court was told.

LOAD-DATE: July 14, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:  THREE YEARS: Sion Evans, 19 FOUR YEARS: Aaron Roberts, 26 FOUR YEARS:
Daniel Morgan, 22 FOUR YEARS: Mark Hughes, 24

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: dp


                       Copyright 2012 Trinity Mirror plc
                              All Rights Reserved

                              479 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                              Liverpool Daily Echo

                             July 14, 2012 Saturday
                                  1ST Edition

47 YEARS FOR PUB PETROL BOMBERS;
REVEALED How rivalry exploded into terror attacks - Pages 4&5

BYLINE: LUKE TRAYNOR

SECTION: NEWS; FRONT PAGE; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 74 words


REVEALED How rivalry exploded into terror attacks - Pages 4&5 A PUB landlady and
her accomplices were jailed for a total of 47 years for a campaign of arson
aimed at wiping out a successful competitor.

Elizabeth Orr and her partner Mark Barrington organised a series of petrol bomb
attacks, which caused pounds 1.1m of damage to rival boozer the Blue Anchor in
Aintree.

They recruited a gang of "foot soldiers" to carry out the attacks for them.

LOAD-DATE: July 14, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: le


               Copyright 2012 The Liverpool Daily Post & Echo Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                              480 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                       BBC Monitoring Europe - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                              July 16, 2012 Monday

Cyprus police arrest Lebanese on suspicion of involvement in terrorist attacks

LENGTH: 340 words


Text of report in English by Greek Cypriot newspaper Cyprus Mail website on 15
July

[Report by Natalie Hami: "Lebanese Man Suspected of Trying to Carry Out
Terrorist Attacks"]

A Lebanese man in custody on suspicion of involvement in possible terrorist
attacks on Israeli interests had a remand order against him renewed for another
another seven days by Limassol district court on Friday, reports said yesterday.

Police spokesman Andreas Angelides [Angelidis] confirmed the suspect was
arrested in connection with particular serious offences and is now in police
custody.

He also said that he was arrested after the evaluation of certain information
and "as it concerns matters of security no more details or clarifications will
be made".

Reports stated that the suspect, who has a Swedish passport, was arrested last
Saturday at his hotel following an urgent message from foreign secret services.
The 24-year-old suspect was then remanded for five days behind closed doors.

Police have found in his possession certain papers and photos that they are
examining carefully. They suspect he was in Cyprus to monitor and then organize
a terrorist attack against Israeli interests.

The suspect arrived on the island almost two weeks ago.

According to reports he planned on blowing up an aircraft or bus, so police are
currently searching for explosives that he would have potentially used. He was
allegedly hanging around places with Israeli tourists, watching to see what
buses they were using and even looking out for premises that come under Israeli
ownership. Police are also looking into to what extent he was carrying out the
same kind of reconnaissance work in other cities.

Reports also stated that the suspect originally denied any involvement in a
terrorist organization however after further questioning he allegedly admitted
his involvement in a well-known terrorist organization based in Lebanon.

They are also searching for any possible contacts he may have had in Cyprus or
abroad.

Source: Cyprus Mail website, Nicosia, in English 15 Jul 12

LOAD-DATE: July 16, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2012 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              481 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring South Asia - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                              July 16, 2012 Monday

Afghan paper urges UN, human rights activists to stop terror attacks

LENGTH: 726 words


Excerpt from editorial in Pashto entitled "Can UN, international human rights
organization stop killing of Afghans?" published by state-owned Afghan newspaper
Hewad on 15 July

Reports say that a suicide attack cold-bloodedly killed 22 people, including
lower house MP Ahmad Samangani, and wounded 50 others yesterday. The attack was
carried out on a wedding ceremony and the victims were civilians. The spokesman
for the police zone in the north, Lal Mohammad Ahmadzai, said that the blast
killed 50 in Samangan town. Mr Ahmadzai said that the suicide attack was carried
out in a hotel where the wedding ceremony of Ahmad Khan Samangani's daughter was
being held. The Interior Ministry also confirmed this deadly incident. This was
another attack by the enemies of the Afghan people.

Earlier the head of the Women's Affairs Department of Laghman, Hanifa Sapy, was
also killed in a cowardly attack. A bomb was strapped to her vehicle and went
off while she was going to the town with her husband, killing her and wounding
11 civilians, including her husband. Hanifa Sapy was also a student of the 3rd
Year in the Faculty of Law in Ariana University.

The UN special envoy, Yan Kubish, strongly condemned her assassination and said
that Sapy had made strenuous efforts to promote women's rights for the past four
years. According to him, she made tireless efforts to promote women's rights.
Furthermore, her killing was seriously condemned both at national and
international level. This is a sign of cowardice because no one has ever
attacked women in Afghanistan nor are Afghans so cowardly as to attack women. It
is the work of the historic enemy. The enemy always tries to kill Afghans and
impede development activities. It has either misled or hired a few slaves to
carry out such attacks. These cowardly attackers do not care about humanity and
Islam, and take pride in serving their supporters. The attack in Samangan also
shocked compatriots and this serious and ruthless attack on the Afghans is
against all Afghan, humanitarian, moral and humanitarian values. [Passage
omitted: wedding custom of Afghans]

This is another tactic that the historic enemy is testing on civilians. Ahmad
Samangani was not a military or police officer. He was a public representative
and represented his constituency in the lower house. All of the guests were
civilians at the wedding ceremony and were celebrating the wedding. This attack
is against humanity, Islam and Afghan culture. No one should attack a wedding
ceremony. Suicide bombers and terrorists, who are trained for notorious foreign
objectives and ordered to attack civilian and non-civilian targets, attack even
mosques and other religious places besides wedding ceremonies in Afghanistan.
They exploit the sacred name of Islam and undermine the sacred values of Islam.

The enemy is not forgivable because he attacked wedding guests, including women
and children, in Samangan. He has no sympathy with humanity. Whenever the Afghan
people have raised their voices against the enemy, neither the international
community nor human rights activists have lent an ear to it. When school girls
have been poisoned in schools, the human rights activists in Kabul have
condemned the arrest and punishment of the culprits. They say that the National
Directorate of Security [NDS] has exerted pressure on the detainees at a time
when the detainees themselves have admitted their inhumane and anti-Islamic
crimes.

The question is whether the human rights activists will be able to heal the pain
of the victims of the suicide attack in Samangan and other such victims. Will
they identify and punish those behind these serious crimes? Will human rights
activists bring to justice the trainers of suicide bombers and terrorists whom
they know very well? Where are the human rights activists to share the pain with
the victims of the suicide attack in Samangan and punish the culprits in public?
The condemnation of an incident or expression of condolences alone cannot help
the families of the victims. This is not the only incident, but the Afghans are
suffering from other similar attacks. The Afghans expect the UN and human rights
organization to stop such acts by the enemy. Otherwise, they will lose their
trust in the claims of the UN and International Human Rights Organization.

Source: Hewad, Kabul, in Pashto 15 Jul 12

LOAD-DATE: July 16, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2012 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              482 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                       BBC Monitoring Europe - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                              July 16, 2012 Monday

Cyprus minister says case of suspect for terrorist attacks "very serious"

LENGTH: 193 words


Text of report in English by Greek Cypriot news agency CNA

["Case of Suspect for Terrorist Attacks, Very Serious Minister Says" - Cyprus
News Agency headline]

Nicosia, 16 July: Minister of Justice and Public Order Loukas Louka described as
very serious and delicate the case of the 24 year old man who is in custody on
suspicion of involvement in possible terrorist attacks against Israeli interests
in Cyprus.

Speaking to the press on Sunday, Loukas said that any statements may harm the
case, noting that "the authorities should be left to investigate the case before
releasing further information".

Replying to a question, Louka said that the authorities did not collaborate only
with Israel in order to arrest the suspect, "but with foreign authorities with
which there was cooperation and exchange of information".

The 24 year old Lebanese suspect had a remand order against him renewed for
another seven days by Limassol district court on Friday.

According to the police, the suspect was arrested in connection with particular
serious offences following the evaluation of certain information.

Source: Cyprus News Agency, Nicosia, in English 0724 gmt 16 Jul 12

LOAD-DATE: July 16, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2012 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              483 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                               The Sun (England)

                              July 16, 2012 Monday
                                   Edition 1;
                                    Ireland

SUPER 'BITTEN IN HALF ' BY GREAT WHITE;
TERROR AFTER FIFTH OZ ATTACK

BYLINE: STEPHEN BREEN

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 19

LENGTH: 437 words


A MAJOR search was under way in Western Australia last night for a monster shark
that killed a surfer - the fifth fatal attack in the last ten months.

Surfer Ben Linden, 24, from Perth, was BITTEN IN HALF after the five-metre beast
- nicknamed 'Brutus' - struck close to Wedge Island.

Jet-skier Matt Holmes, 22, had a lucky escape after the deadly shark tried to
knock him into the water as he tried to retrieve Ben's body.

Reliving his traumatic encounter with the Great White, Matt told of his terror.

He said: "By the time I got out there half of him had been taken and the shark
was circling.

"When I came back the second time, he took the rest of him."

And terrified Irishman Mark Feenan, 41, originally from Co Down, told how there
was mass panic along Oz's western coast.

The dad-of-one revealed how he often brought his seven-year-old daughter Ciara
to Bunker Bay - around 300km south of Perth - where bodyboarder Kyle Burden, 21,
was killed last September.

Hysteria Mark said: "I've been here for 12 years and have never known so much
hysteria over shark attacks - people are genuinely terrified.

"Everyone is terrified of going back in the water. I won't have my family
anywhere near the beach.

"Everyone is just praying for this beast to be caught."

Fisheries Minister Norman Moore ordered a shark hunt to capture and kill the
beast, adding: "We seriously have got a problem."

Police are also still searching for tragic Ben's remains.

His girlfriend Alana Noakes paid tribute to the surfer, adding: "Ben was the
most amazing man, he lit up the lives of all who knew him."

The killing is an unprecedented fifth shark fatality in the past ten months off
the coast of Western Australia.

On March 31 last, 33-year-old diver Peter Kurmann was taken by a shark near
Busselton in the state's southwest.

A 32-year-old American, George Wainwright, died after being killed by a great
white shark on October 22 last year while diving off the tourist destination of
Rottnest Island near Perth.

Only 12 days earlier, 64-year-old Bryn Martin disappeared while taking his daily
swim at Perth's popular Cottesloe Beach. His tattered Speedos were later found,
with experts saying damage was consistent with a shark attack.

Jet-skier Matt said of the latest tragedy: "This was a massive, massive white
shark. There was blood everywhere. It's still hard to believe this nightmare has
happened.

"I tried to lean off the side and pull him on the back, but as I did, the shark
came back and nudged the jet ski to try to knock me off.

"I just thought about his family. I just wanted to get him to shore. I gave it
everything I had."

stephen.breen@the-sun.ie

LOAD-DATE: July 16, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Tragic ... killed surfer Ben
Terrified ... Mark and Ciara
Jaws of death ... the unlucky Linden was the fifth person killed by a monster
such as this one

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: SUN


                    Copyright 2012 NEWS GROUP NEWSPAPERS LTD
                              All Rights Reserved

                              484 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring Middle East - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                             July 17, 2012 Tuesday

Armed "terrorists" attack Syrian electricity station

LENGTH: 369 words


Text of report in English by state-run Syrian news agency SANA website

["Terrorists Attack Al-Qabun Electricity Station, Authorities Clash with Armed
Groups in al-Midan, Na..." - SANA Headline]

Damascus/Aleppo,(SANA) - An armed terrorist group Tuesday [17 July] at dawn
attacked Al-Qabun third electricity converter station, causing big financial
loss and breaking down three converters.

An official source at Ministry of Electricity said that an armed terrorist group
attacked the station with mortar and RPG shells, leaving material damages
estimated at SYP 300 million due to the harm caused to three converters and
maintenance levers, in addition to the burning of the station.

The source pointed out that maintenance workshops restored the voltage and
replaced the damaged parts to re-operate the station in two days.

The authorities are hunting the terrorist group in the neighbouring area to the
station, the sources pointed out.

Meanwhile, the authorities continue to chase down an armed terrorist group in
the outskirts of al-Midan neighbourhood in Damascus, inflicting heavy losses in
the terrorists' ranks.

On a relevant note, armed terrorist started opening fire and attempted to block
roads in Naher Aisha area, but the security forces dealt with them and cleared
the roads.

Authorities clash with armed terrorist groups destroying 14 vehicles, causing
heavy losses

Authorities on Monday clashed with armed terrorist groups riding in ten vehicles
and attacking residents and law enforcement members in Bethraton and Bayanon in
Aleppo.

An official source told SANA reporter that the clash caused heavy losses among
the terrorists and destroyed the ten cars with the terrorists inside.

The source added that the authorities also clashed with armed terrorist groups
in Aazaz area in the Province, adding that they were blocking roads, stealing
and attacking citizens.

The authorities destroyed four cars supplied with machine guns and caused heavy
losses among the terrorists.

The bodies of the terrorists Muhammad Fawzi Hafiz, Ghazi Mohammad al-Ezzo,
Ismail Hamandoush, Omar Qadour al-Sayyed Ali and Mohammad Akkash were
identified, according to the source.

Source: SANA news agency website, Damascus in English 17 Jul 12

LOAD-DATE: July 17, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2012 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              485 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring Middle East - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                            July 18, 2012 Wednesday

Iran Foreign Ministry strongly condemns "terrorist attack" in Syria

LENGTH: 238 words


Iran's Foreign Ministry has condemned today's "terrorist attack" in Damascus
calling for a halt to the smuggling of weapons to Syria and interference in the
affairs of that country, the Fars news agency reported on 18 July.

According to Fars, the Foreign Ministry in a statement "strongly condemned
today's [18 July] terrorist explosion in Damascus, which left a number of Syrian
officials including the Syrian defence minister dead or injured, and expressed
the condolences of the nation and government of Iran to the families of the
victims and the Syrian nation and government."

A section of the statement said: "As stressed repeatedly in the past, the
Islamic Republic of Iran condemns any form of violence and destructive measures
and believes that the only way to get through the current crisis in Syria is via
dialogue to find political solutions to the current problems because any
instability in Syria can fan the tensions and crisis in the region leading to
more violence and unrest."

"The statement underlined that without a doubt foreign interference and the
smuggling of weapons and ammunition to Syria and the support of some regional
and international sides for the terrorist acts, which target the stability and
security of Syria and its resilient nation, will bear no fruit and these
activities must be stopped immediately", the report said.

Source: Fars News Agency website, Tehran, in Persian 1422 gmt 18 Jul 12

LOAD-DATE: July 18, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2012 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              486 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                      July 18, 2012 Wednesday 10:27 PM GMT

Israel: Bulgaria bus bombing 'an Iranian terrorist attack';
Iran has been blamed for a terrorist attack on an Israeli tourist coach in
Bulgaria that killed up to seven people at Burgas airport on Wednesday.

LENGTH: 24 words


Iran has been blamed for a terrorist attack on an Israeli tourist coach in
Bulgaria that killed up to seven people at Burgas airport on Wednesday.

LOAD-DATE: July 19, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTNS


                  Copyright 2012 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              487 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                      July 18, 2012 Wednesday 7:17 PM GMT

Iran blamed after seven killed in bomb attack on Israeli bus in Bulgaria;
Iran has been blamed for a terrorist attack on an Israeli tourist coach in
Bulgaria that killed up to seven people at Burgas airport on Wednesday.

BYLINE: By Bruno Waterfield

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 577 words


Benjamin Netanyahu, Israel's prime minister, said Tehran was behind the attack
near the popular Black Sea resort of Sunny Beach and warned of retaliatory
measures targeting Iran.

"All the signs lead to Iran. Israel will respond forcefully to Iranian terror,"
he said.

Three buses caught fire after an explosion at around 5.30pm local time ripped
through a coach carrying 44 Israeli tourists, including many teenagers, who had
just landed on a flight from Tel Aviv. Over 30 people were also injured in the
attack.

The blast was confirmed as a terrorist attack linked to the 18th anniversary of
Iran's bombing of a Jewish community centre in the Argentine capital Buenos
Aires that killed 85 people

"Eighteen years exactly after the blast at the Jewish community centre in
Argentina, murderous Iranian terror continues to hit innocent people," said Mr
Netanyahu.

"This is an Iranian terror attack that is spreading throughout the entire world.
Israel will react powerfully against Iranian terror."

"Only in the past few months we have seen Iranian attempts to attack Israelis in
Thailand, India, Georgia, Kenya, Cyprus and other places,"

Local officials indicated that the attack was by a remote controlled bomb in the
bus's luggage compartment, although some reports suggested a man had boarded the
bus, with a huge explosion following immediately afterwards.

"We went through passport control and waiting for us were hotel representatives
who put us in buses. We put the bags in the trunk, and after a few minutes, the
bus exploded in flames," Shoshi, who's full name was not given, told Voice of
Israel radio.

Gal Malka, who also survived the explosion, told Israeli Army Radio: "We sat
down and within a few seconds we heard a huge boom and we ran away. We managed
to escape through a hole on the bus. We saw bodies and many people injured. The
whole bus went up in flames."

Dimitar Nikolov, the mayor of Burgas told the bTV television channel that the
attack was caused by "a very strong explosive that was deliberately placed or
brought into the baggage compartment of the bus".

The US condemned the attack, with President Barack Obama stating his "thoughts
and prayers" were with the victims.

Israelis have been targeted in attacks outside their country, notably in Delhi,
India and Bangkok, Thailand, in February.

Israel suspects Iran of being behind these attacks, which have further added to
tensions between the two countries already exacerbated by Israeli warnings
against Iran's alleged pursuit of a nuclear weapons programme.

The deadly explosion comes after a foiled bomb attack in January targeting a bus
chartered to take Israeli tourists from the Turkish border to a Bulgarian ski
resort earlier this year.

Following an Israeli request, Bulgarian troops were deployed in several ski
resorts frequented by Israeli tourists after the bomb was found.

The foiled attack was thought to be linked to Hizbollah, the Lebanon based Shia
Islamist terror group that receives financial and political support from Iran
and Syria.

Israeli officials have pointed to the timing of the Bulgarian attack on the
anniversary of the 18 July 1994 bombing of the Asociacion Mutual Israelita
Argentina (AMIA; Argentine Israelite Mutual Association) building in Buenos
Aires.

Iran was blamed for that attack and Argentina has issued arrest warrants for
several Iranian nationals including General Ahmad Vahidi, the country's defence
minister and former commander of the Revolutionary Guards.

LOAD-DATE: July 19, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTNS


                  Copyright 2012 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              488 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                      July 18, 2012 Wednesday 5:21 PM GMT

At least seven dead in Bulgaria tourist coach bomb;
At least seven people are thought to have been killed in a terrorist attack on
an Israeli tourist coach at the Burgas airport near Bulgaria's popular Black Sea
resorts.

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 177 words


Bulgarian news websites reported that three buses were in flames after an
explosion ripped through a coach carrying 44 Israeli tourists from Tel Aviv.

Unconfirmed witnesses told Israel's Channel 2 televison channel that a suicide
bomber boarded the bus and a huge explosion immediately followed.

The blast came at 17:30 local time (15:30 BST) and has been confirmed as a
terrorist attack by Bulgarian interior ministry officials.

According to 24 Chasa news people have been admitted in a critical condition to
hospital in Burgas.

"Shoshi", an eyewitness, told Voice of Israel Radio: "We went through passport
control and waiting for us representatives deposited them in buses by the
hotels. We put the bags in the trunk, and after a few minutes, the bus exploded
in flames. Then we returned to the terminal, and now we are trying to determine
who is missing and who is dead. People who survived the explosion escaped from
the window, and could not step over the bodies. The bus was shattered on both
sides."

The number of casualties and injured has not yet been confirmed.

LOAD-DATE: July 19, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTNS


                  Copyright 2012 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              489 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                       BBC Monitoring Africa - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                             July 19, 2012 Thursday

Security at UN offices in Kenya tightened over terror attack fears

LENGTH: 377 words


Text of report by Dave Opiyo entitled "UN tightens security over terror attack
fears" published by Kenyan privately-owned newspaper Daily Nation website on 19
July

The UN has tightened security around its offices in the country following fears
of a terrorist attack.

Confidential documents obtained by the Daily Nation say the UN had received
intelligence that Al-Shabab was planning grenade attacks on one of their offices
in Nairobi.

The terror group, the documents claim, had last month conducted surveillance at
one of the UN offices.

"It is possible that the increase in media reporting on UN aid to Amisom forces
as well as on security at the Dadaab refugee camps could have contributed to
raising the profile and priority of the United Nations as a potential target,"
the report says.

Diplomatic Police Unit Commandant Allan Sangoro said he was not aware of the
intelligence report, but admitted that since Kenya moved into Somalia, terror
threats had increased.

As a result of the intelligence, security officials at UN facilities have been
ordered to carry out thorough searches on all individuals and vehicles entering
the premises.

In previous large-scale attacks against both the UN and other government targets
worldwide, the terrorists breached security by wearing local security uniforms
or used official vehicles, including those belonging to the UN, to gain access.

According to the documents, the UN also says it worried by the possibility of a
large-scale terror attack in Nairobi or Mombasa as well as a conventional attack
on the border areas.

The Al-Shabab militia has thrice threatened to bring down tall buildings in
Nairobi.

The document says the attacks could be planned to coincide with the commencement
of the holy month of Ramadhan, which begins on 21 July.

"Ramadhan also coincides with the anniversary on 7 August of the 1998 US embassy
attack in Nairobi," says the document.

On 22 June, the US embassy issued a warning and barely 48 hours later, three
people were killed in an explosion at Jericho Beer Garden in Mishomoroni,
Mombasa.

On 1 July, there were two hand grenade and small arms attacks on churches in
Garissa [northeastern Kenya] in which 17 people were killed and 60 injured.

Source: Daily Nation website, Nairobi, in English 19 Jul 12

LOAD-DATE: July 19, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2012 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              490 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring Middle East - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                             July 19, 2012 Thursday

Lebanese security forces simulate "terrorist" attack, response

LENGTH: 137 words


Text of report in English by privately-owned Lebanese newspaper The Daily Star
website on 18 July

[Lebanese Security Forces Simulate 'Terrorist' Attack, Response" - The Daily
Star Headline]

Beirut: Security forces, including the Lebanese Army and police, held a military
exercise in Beirut Wednesday [18 July] featuring a mock terrorist attack.

The exercise, dubbed "The work of security forces after a terrorist blast", took
place in Ain al-Remmaneh, east Beirut.

It was carried out by various units of the Lebanese Army, Internal Security
Forces, General Security as well as those of other security and emergency
services.

The exercise included rescue and evacuation measures for people trapped under
the debris following a blast or threatened by a subsequent fire.

Source: The Daily Star website, Beirut, in English 18 Jul 12

LOAD-DATE: July 19, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2012 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              491 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring Middle East - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                             July 19, 2012 Thursday

Israeli court convicts man accused of Al-Nakba ''terror attack''

LENGTH: 426 words


Text of report in English by privately-owned Israeli daily The Jerusalem Post
website on 19 July

[Report by Joanna Paraszczuk: 'Nakba Day' terror attack driver convicted of
murder"]

A truck driver who killed a man and injured 17 others during a terror attack in
Tel Aviv on ''Al-Nakba Day'' last year was pronounced guilty of murder on
Thursday [19 July].

In a unanimous ruling, the Tel Aviv District Court said Ibrahim Islam Issa, a
23-year-old resident of Kfar Kassem, was guilty of premeditated murder after he
swerved his 15-ton Volvo truck into a line of vehicles and pedestrians on a busy
Tel Aviv road on 15 May 2011, the date Palestinians mark as ''Nakba Day'', a day
of mourning coinciding with the anniversary of the founding of the State of
Israel.

According to the indictment, Issa was motivated by nationalist ideology and
planned the attack in advance, aiming to kill as many Jews as possible. Issa
began the attack at 9.30a.m. on Tel Aviv's Bar Lev street, smashing into a car
decorated with an Israeli flag and killing the driver, Avi Morag.

He then smashed into seven more vehicles, including a scooter and a bus before
getting out of his truck and beating passers-by with a blunt object while
shouting "Allahu Akbar" (God is great), and racial epithets against Jews, the
indictment said. Issa's defence argued that he had not intended to kill anyone
and that he had lost control of his truck.

In court, Issa testified that he had fallen asleep at the wheel before hitting
the cars. He said that he was not racist and had never contemplated harming Jews
and denied shouting "Allahu Akbar".

Judges Gilya Ravid, Gilad Neuthal and Meir Yifrach convicted Issa of murder in a
unanimous decision. Under the Penal Code, a murder conviction requires that the
prosecution prove beyond a reasonable doubt that a killing was premeditated.
Ravid said the fact that Issa had crossed a red light at high speed, and slammed
his truck into vehicles at the junction, demonstrated that he had intended to
cause the death of the people in those cars.

"This conclusion is reinforced by the fact that (Issa) did not stop after the
smash and was not interested in what had happened to the passengers affected by
it, and did not try to get help," Judge Ravid said.

Issa was also convicted of attempted murder, causing injury and aggravated
injury, and endangering life on a public highway. The court will sentence Issa
at a later date. A murder conviction attracts a mandatory penalty of life
imprisonment.

Source: The Jerusalem Post website, Jerusalem, in English 19 Jul 12

LOAD-DATE: July 19, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2012 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              492 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                               Independent.co.uk

                       July 19, 2012 Thursday 3:16 PM GMT

Israel will not rush into war with Iran or Hezbollah despite government blaming
'Iranian terror' for Bulgarian bomb attack

BYLINE: Dan Williams

SECTION: EUROPE

LENGTH: 677 words


Israel today signalled it would not rush into any open conflict with Iran or its
Lebanese guerrilla ally Hezbollah despite blaming them for a deadly attack on
its citizens in Bulgaria.

A suicide bomber killed himself, five Israelis and a Bulgarian driver on a
tourist bus in Burgas airport on yesterday. Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin
Netanyahu quickly promised to "react powerfully" to what he called "Iranian
terror".

Sofia officials have yet to say publicly who they think organised the attack and
Iran dismissed as unfounded Israel's accusations that it had played a role. The
bomber was said to have been 36 years old and Bulgarian authorities were trying
to identify him from DNA samples taken from his remains.

In a statement, the Iranian embassy in Bulgaria said Israel's charges were "a
familiar method of the Zionist regime, with a political aim, and is a sign of
the weakness... of the accusers".

Hezbollah has not commented on the bombing.

Israel's allegation, based on suspicions that Iranian and Hezbollah agents have
been trying for years to score a lethal strike on its interests abroad,
triggered speculation in local media that the Netanyahu government might now hit
back hard.

The Israelis have long threatened to resort to military force to curb Tehran's
disputed nuclear programme, but Defence Minister Ehud Barak sounded more
restrained on Thursday about a response to the Bulgaria attack.

Speaking on Israel Radio, he said the country would "do everything possible in
order to find those responsible, and those who dispatched them, and punish them"
- language that appeared to suggest covert action against individuals.

President Shimon Peres said on his Facebook page that Israel would "take action
in every terror nest, worldwide. It has the means to do so, and we are
determined to act in this spirit."

Israel may be reluctant to cross Western partners by rushing into a full-on
confrontation which would stretch its military capabilities and possibly draw
Iranian escalation against U.S. targets in the Gulf and disruptions of the
global oil supply.

A clash with Hezbollah, which the Israeli military says has stockpiled as many
as 80,000 rockets in south Lebanon, carries the risk of igniting that frontier
at a time when the Netanyahu government is worried about turmoil in neighbouring
Syria.

Giora Eiland, a retired Israeli army general who served as national security
adviser from 2003 to 2006, played down the prospects of the Bulgaria bombing
spilling over into war.

"I think that any response, whatever it may be, will not be an immediate
response," Eiland told Israel Radio separately.

"Any response, whatever it may be, will not be in the form of an air force
operation, or strike - certainly not in Iran over this matter, nor in Lebanon."

Barak, whose remarks focused on Hezbollah's alleged role in the Bulgaria
bombing, described it as the most devastating of a series of recent plots
against Israelis, including diplomats.

Some analysts believe Iran is trying to avenge the assassination of scientists
from its nuclear programme, which it blamed on Israel and Western allies. Iran
says its atomic ambitions are peaceful, denying foreign charges of secret
military designs.

Hezbollah has its own scores to settle with Israel. Two years after their 2006
border war, the Lebanese Shi'ite militia lost its commander, Imad Moughniyeh, to
a Damascus car bomb it said was the work of Israeli spies, and vowed revenge.

Netanyahu's national security adviser from 2009 to 2011, Uzi Arad, confirmed
that Israel killed Moughniyeh - though the country has never formally claimed
responsibility for his death nor those of the Iranian scientists.

Speaking to Israel's Army Radio, Arad described the Bulgaria bombing as part of
a "dynamic of escalation" but counselled the Netanyahu government to invest in
better intelligence and security cooperation with foreign partners.

He said "risk management" was required and that Wednesday's bloodshed may be an
"unavoidable price" of the internal and international pressure building on Iran
and its allies.

Reuters

LOAD-DATE: July 20, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBI


           Copyright 2012 Independent Digital News and Media Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              493 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                               Independent.co.uk

                       July 19, 2012 Thursday 9:12 AM GMT

Israel blames Iranian campaign of terror as bus bomb kills tourists;
Attack leaves seven dead in Bulgaria - and is latest in series targeting
Israelis abroad, says Netanyahu

BYLINE: Donald Macintyre

SECTION: EUROPE

LENGTH: 590 words


The Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu blamed Iran last night for a bomb
attack which killed at least seven people and wounded 32 when a bus carrying
mainly young Israeli tourists blew up in a Bulgarian Black Sea resort.

The airport at Burgas, a popular destination for Israeli holidaymakers, was
closed down for civilian flights after the blast. It was not immediately clear
whether it had been caused by a suicide bomber or a remotely detonated explosive
device.

Most of the passengers aboard the bus were thought to be among around 150
Israelis who had arrived on a flight from Tel Aviv which had landed at the
resort's airport at about 4.45pm. The explosion was said by the Israeli Foreign
Ministry to have happened around 40 minutes later as the bus -one of three or
four conveying the Israeli tourists - was preparing to leave the airport.

One eye witness, Gal Malka who was slightly injured in the explosion, told
Israel's Channel 2 TV that she saw someone board the bus before it happened. "We
were at the entrance of the bus and in a few seconds we heard a huge boom," she
said. The Bulgarian news agency Focus reported that an 11-year-old Israeli girl
was among the wounded as well as two pregnant women.

Pictures shown on Israeli and Bulgarian ﻿television showed smoke billowing out
of a car park at the airport, and several buses and cars appeared to be on fire
near the shell of the targeted bus, which was to have taken the tourists to
their hotel.

Another witness, Shosh Eyler, who was on one of the buses that escaped the
explosion, told the Israeli news service Ynet that it took place seconds after
the groups boarded the buses. "The bus next to ours just exploded. There was
smoke everywhere and people were running hysterically. We got off the bus and
local security officers got everyone into the terminal immediately."

Mr Netanyahu said "all the signs point to Iran" and the attack followed others -
carried out or attempted - in India, Georgia, Thailand, Kenya and Cyprus, where
the authorities said this week they had foiled a plot to target Israeli tourists
by the Shia Lebanese guerilla group Hezbollah.

Israel regards Hezbollah's operations outside Lebanon as executed on behalf of
Iran. The Prime Minister added: "This is an Iranian terror attack that is
spreading across the world," he said. "Israel will react strongly to Iran's
terror."

Bulgaria's popularity with Israeli tourists is thought to have further increased
as a result of the breakdown in relations between its neighbour Turkey,
previously favoured destination for holidaymakers from Israel.

The attacks came amid heightening tensions between Israel and its Western allies
on the one hand and Iran on the other over Tehran's nuclear programme, and after
persistent Iranian accusations that Israel and the US has been behind a spate of
assassinations of its nuclear scientists.

Israel has also long braced itself for a reprisal attack by Hezbollah for the
explosion in Damascus in 2008 which killed Imad Mughniyeh, one of its top
military operatives. Israel has never admitted involvement in the assassination.

Washington strongly condemned the attack. The White House press secretary, Jay
Carney, said President Barack Obama's "thoughts and prayers are with the
families of those killed and injured."

Associated Press reported that in Sofia, the Bulgarian capital, which is 250
miles west of the resort where the blast happened, the mayor Yordanka Fandakova
had ordered a stronger police presence at all public places frequented by its
Jewish community.

LOAD-DATE: July 20, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBI


           Copyright 2012 Independent Digital News and Media Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              494 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                  M2 PressWIRE

                             July 19, 2012 Thursday

Today's terrorist attack in Bulgaria must be condemned - Alexander

LENGTH: 64 words


July 18, 2012

Douglas Alexander MP, Labour's Shadow Foreign Secretary, in response to the
terrorist bus attack in Bulgaria, said:

"Today's terrorist attack must be condemned and the perpetrators borough to
justice.

"Although the full details of the tragedy have not yet emerged, our immediate
thoughts are with the families and friends of those killed and injured in
today's attack."

LOAD-DATE: July 19, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newswire

JOURNAL-CODE: M2PW


                      Copyright 2012 Normans Media Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              495 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                       July 19, 2012 Thursday 5:38 PM GMT

Great Olympic Moments: Munich 1972 basketball final stirs lasting resentment
between the USA and Soviet Union;
Memories of the 1972 Munich Games will always be filtered through the sinister
light cast by the Palestinian terrorist attack on the athletes' village. The
tragedy's indelible imprint is such that even the most dramatic sporting moments
of those Olympics have become obscured.

BYLINE: By Jon Henderson

SECTION: SPORT

LENGTH: 337 words


But the most dramatic of all, the highly controversial men's basketball final,
five days after the Palestinian raid, retains a special place in the story of
Munich.

The contest stirred lasting resentment between the United States and the Soviet
Union, who at the time were already the main protagonists in another source of
bitter enmity, the cold war. The Soviet's 51-50 victory made it more frigid
still.

Up to this point the US were unbeaten in 62 Olympic basketball matches, which
included all seven men's finals that had preceded this one in Munich.

Throughout, the final was a mad, mean contest with the Soviets jumping into a
26-21 halftime lead before the US applied a full-court press that slashed their
deficit to one point with 38 seconds left. With less than 10 seconds to go Doug
Collins was badly fouled and, though dazed, coolly sank his free throws to put
the US in front, 50-49, for the first time.

With one second left, and the Americans still one point ahead, the referees
halted the game and Dr William Jones, the British secretary of Fiba,
basketball's world governing body, ordered the clock reset to 0:03. He was
responding to a claim by Soviet team officials that they had signalled for a
time-out between Collins's free throws, but whether Jones was entitled to act as
he did was - and still is - hotly disputed.

The drama still wasn't over. As the Soviets in-bounded the ball, the final
buzzer sounded and the American whooped for joy at retaining their title.

But, no, officials ordered them back on the court because the clock had not been
properly reset. When the anguish and arguing subsided and play resumed, Ivan
Edeshko threw a long pass to Alexander Belov, who pushed past Jim Forbes and
Kevin Joyce to sink the winning layup.

The Americans refused to show up to receive their silver medals. Kenny Davis,
the US captain, said: "We didn't know any other way to protest."

Davis also said that every time he felt sorry for himself "I think of those
Israeli kids who were killed at those Games".

LOAD-DATE: July 20, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTNS


                  Copyright 2012 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              496 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                 BBC Monitoring Former Soviet Union - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                              July 20, 2012 Friday

Russian PM sends condolences to Israel over terror attack in Bulgaria

LENGTH: 120 words


Text of report by corporate-owned Russian news agency Interfax

Moscow, 20 July: Russian Prime Minister Dmitriy Medvedev has sent a telegram to
Israeli Prime Minister Binyamin Netanyahu expressing his condolences over the
killing of Israeli citizens in the terrorist attack in the Bulgarian city of
Burgas, the Russian government's press office has reported.

"This barbarian crime cannot be justified. All people responsible for organizing
it should be brought to severe justice," the telegram said.

Medvedev asked to pass his condolences and words of mourning to the friends and
relatives of the victims and wishes quick recovery to those wounded and injured.

Source: Interfax news agency, Moscow, in Russian 0806 gmt 20 Jul 12

LOAD-DATE: July 20, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2012 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              497 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                          Bradford Telegraph and Argus

                              July 20, 2012 Friday

Man is jailed for plotting deadly terrorist attacks on Jewish community

SECTION: BRADFORD NEWS (BRADFORD NEWS)

LENGTH: 203 words


A couple who formed a "terrorist partnership" and plotted deadly attacks on
Jewish communities were jailed today.

Mohammed Sajid Khan, 33, who is from Bradford, was given an indeterminate
sentence for the public's protection with a minimum term of seven years and six
months.

His wife Shasta Khan, 38, was jailed for eight years.

The couple, who live in Oldham, bought substances and equipment from
supermarkets to assemble an improvised explosive device, Manchester Crown Court
previously heard.

But their plot was foiled when police were called to a domestic dispute at their
home in Foster Street, Oldham, and found a cache of terror-related material.

Passing sentence today, Mr Justice Wilkie told Mohammed Sajid Khan he had been a
"committed Islamic extremist" and was the dominant partner in the relationship
with his wife.

Khan has a long history of previous convictions and has previously spent time in
jail for violent offences, the hearing was told.

The judge added: "Unhappily, by virtue of your previous criminal record, you are
plainly a man who has proved capable of using violence."

Khan, an unemployed car valeter, pleaded guilty to engaging in conduct in
preparation for acts of terrorism at an earlier hearing.

LOAD-DATE: July 20, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2012 NewsQuest Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              498 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                          The Daily Telegraph (London)

                              July 20, 2012 Friday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

Wootton Bassett 'target for Muslim convert9;
Son of teachers who turned into radical 'plotted attacks and helped train
terrorists'

BYLINE: Sam Marsden

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 432 words


A WHITE Muslim convert accused of a terrorism offence discussed attacking Royal
Wootton Bassett and officers from MI5 and MI6, a court heard yesterday.

Richard Dart, 29, is accused with two other men of preparing for acts of
terrorism over a two-year period by travelling to Pakistan for training and
providing information for others about how to do the same.

Westminster magistrates' court heard claims that Mr Dart talked about possible
targets, including Royal Wootton Bassett, the Wiltshire market town that became
known for the crowds that lined its streets to pay respects to the bodies of
British soldiers killed in Afghanistan between 2007 and September last year.

Mr Dart, who wore green Islamic robes under a black fleece jacket, appeared in a
BBC documentary last year made by his brother about his conversion to Islam. The
son of teachers from Weymouth, Dorset, had planned to become a carpenter before
meeting the radical preacher Anjem Choudary.

Mr Dart, of Ealing, west London, was charged with preparing for acts of
terrorism between July 25, 2010 and July 6 this year, with Jahangir Alom, 26, a
former police community support officer from Stratford, east London, and Imran
Mahmood, 21, Northolt, west London.

They are said to have travelled to Pakistan for terrorism training, to have
travelled abroad to commit acts of terrorism, and to have advised and counselled
the commission of terrorist acts by providing information about travel to
Pakistan and terrorism training, and operational security while there.

Ruksana Begum, 22, of Islington, north London, is charged with possession of a
digital memory card containing documents likely to be of use to a terrorist,
including two issues of a jihadist magazine called Inspire. They were all
arrested by officers from the Metropolitan Police's counter terrorism command in
raids at the start of this month. Scotland Yard said none of the alleged
offences were linked to the Olympics.

Howard Riddle, the chief magistrate, remanded all four in custody to appear at
the Old Bailey on July 31. A council worker also appeared at the same court
yesterday charged over a separate counter terrorism investigation.

Khalid Baqa, 47, of Barking, east London, is charged with three counts of
possessing terrorist material and one of disseminating terrorist material after
police allegedly found CDs containing a document called "39 Ways To Support And
Participate In Jihad" and four issues of Inspire.

The revenue officer for Hackney council in east London was remanded in custody
until another hearing at Westminster magistrates' court on July 26.

LOAD-DATE: July 20, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PA/GAVIN RODGERS
Richard Dart allegedly discussed plans to attack Royal Wootton Bassett, left,
where the public mourned fallen troops

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DTL


                  Copyright 2012 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              499 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                             Great Yarmouth Mercury

                              July 20, 2012 Friday

Woman recounts terror dog attack

BYLINE: Anne Edwards

SECTION: ROP

LENGTH: 280 words


A GRANDMOTHER has called for dogs to be kept on leads after her pet was
attacked.

Jo MacDonald was walking her dog, eight-year-old west highland terrier Hamish
along Mill Road in Reedham on Tuesday when he was attacked by another dog,
believed to be a Staffordshire bull terrier.



Mrs MacDonald, a retired school secretary, said: "We were approaching the bridge
and I saw a large dog coming over the top of the bridge. I saw it and I knew it
was going to be trouble. It was a vicious looking dog."

She turned around and started to walk the other way but the other dog started
chasing her.

"It launched itself at my dog and there was no way I could get it off," she
said.

"I was screaming and shouting and kicking. I thought the dog had bitten Hamish's
tail off. I thought Hamish was dead and his eyes had glazed over.

"Hamish didn't bark at the other dog - it was an unprovoked attack."

A passer-by who had stopped to help then drove Mrs MacDonald and her dog to a
vet in Acle.

"The vet kept him in overnight. He had been badly bitten on his shoulder and the
wound required staples and stitches," said the grandmother of four who lives in
Riverside, Reedham.

"I feel very strongly that dogs should be kept on leads. The other dog wasn't on
a lead and it wasn't with anyone.

"When you see a dog which isn't on a lead charging towards you it's a very
frightening experience.

"I'm terrified to take him out for a walk. We have some very nice walks around
Reedham which are secluded and if I had met this dog on one of those walks I
don't know if we would still be here."

Mrs MacDonald has reported the incident to Norfolk Constabulary.

At the time of going to press the police were unable to comment.

LOAD-DATE: July 20, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: GYM


                    Copyright 2012 Archant Regional Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              500 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                               Independent.co.uk

                        July 20, 2012 Friday 6:33 PM GMT

Algerian national Nasserdine Menni guilty of funding Stockholm terror attack

BYLINE: Karrie Gillett

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 629 words


An Algerian national has been found guilty of funding terrorism but cleared of
conspiracy to murder following a suicide bombing in Stockholm.

Nasserdine Menni was convicted of transferring money to Taimour Abdulwahab, who
later blew himself up in the Swedish capital on December 11 2010.

A jury at the High Court in Glasgow found a charge that Menni conspired to
murder members of the Swedish public not proven.

Menni, whose age is not known, was also convicted of immigration and benefit
fraud.

Addressing trial judge Lord Matthews as he left the dock, Menni said: "My Lord,
I thank you very much for the justice in Scotland."

Jurors took just over nine hours to clear Menni of an allegation that he
conspired with Abdulwahab to further terrorist aims in carrying out the bombing
with intent to murder members of the public.

But, following a 12-week trial, he was found guilty of sending a total of £5,725
to a bank account in Abdulwahab's name in the knowledge that it could be used
for terrorism purposes.

Abdulwahab rigged an Audi car with explosives in the hope it would drive people
to Drottninggatan, a busy shopping street about 200 yards away, where he was
waiting to set off two more devices strapped to his chest and back.

The car bomb never went off, and after setting fire to the Audi he was unable to
detonate the other two explosives as planned.

He made his way down a side street off Drottninggatan and, in an apparent
attempt to fix the faulty trigger up his sleeve, set off the bomb on the front
of his body, killing only himself.

David Harvie, director of serious casework for the Crown Office and Procurator
Fiscal Service, said: "Nasserdine Menni has today been brought to justice for a
terrorist act which culminated in the Stockholm suicide bombing of 2010.

"He was involved in the financing of this attack which was intended to murder
members of the public in Sweden. It was only good fortune which prevented
members of the public being killed.

"His guilt has been established by a meticulous and painstaking inquiry by
Scottish law enforcement working with their Swedish and UK counterparts.

"I hope his conviction sends a clear message to the tiny extremist minority, who
are not in any way representative of the Muslim community in Scotland: anyone
contemplating terrorist crimes should know that law enforcement will bring you
to justice."

Menni transferred the money to Abdulwahab between January 2005 and December
2010. He moved to Glasgow in 2009 after living in Luton, where he is believed to
have first met Abdulwahab, for five years.

He was a bogus Kuwaiti asylum seeker, and claimed he was escaping persecution.
He worked in bars and restaurants around the city and lived at an asylum
seeker's hostel.

He obtained a false French passport and identity documents to open a bank
account and later claimed benefits he was not entitled to.

Police swooped on him in February last year following three months of constant
surveillance in which they established contact between the pair.

For five days, he answered every question put to him by detectives with "no
comment".

Menni also transferred £1,000 to the bomber's wife Mona Thwany, 29, after
Abulwahab died.

She claimed in court that it was "a cultural thing" to look after the family
members of someone who had died.

Strathclyde Police's investigation was supported by the FBI, as well as the
Metropolitan Police's anti-terrorism branch and forces in Sweden and France.

A date of birth for Menni is still not known, but officers believe him to be
around 31 or 32 years old.

After the verdicts were returned, Lord Matthews thanked the jury and also
expressed his gratitude to an interpreter who sat beside Menni throughout the
three-month trial.

Menni will be sentenced at the High Court in Glasgow on August 27.

PA

LOAD-DATE: July 21, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBI


           Copyright 2012 Independent Digital News and Media Limited
                              All Rights Reserved



---- End of Request ----
Download Request: Select Items: 1-500
Time Of Request: Wednesday, February 21, 2018  23:03:46

