



Download Request: Select Items: 1501 - 2000
Time Of Request: Wednesday, February 21, 2018  22:47:07
Send To:







Terms: terror!


Source: UK Publications
Project ID: None



                               1 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                               Brentwood Gazette

                               November 26, 2008

Brentwood: A12 missile attack terror;
This week the Gazette calls on police to put an end to the concrete hurling yobs
terrorising our roads after yet another motorist cheated death on the A12.

BYLINE: Paul Dent-Jones

SECTION: Pg. 1

LENGTH: 584  words


On Saturday, a 30-year-old from Brentwood narrowly avoided tragedy when a huge
lump of concrete was thrown onto the road from an overhead bridge at the road's
junction with the A130 at Howe Green, smashing his windscreen and ploughing into
his arm.

Less than an hour later at 7.20pm another driver was targeted at the Brentwood
turn off on the A12.

A giant slab of stone was left in the road and punctured all four tyres of a
grey Honda Civic, but fortunately the 28-year-old driver from Chelmsford escaped
unscathed.

But these sinister attacks follow a spate of 12 similarly terrifying incidents
since the start of November, which have caused horror among the community.

Ken Leader's car was hit by a brick on November 6 when he was driving to work
with a colleague on the A12 towards Brentwood, under the Writtle Road bridge at
around 10.30pm.

But despite the seriousness of the incident he says he was frustrated at the
police's lack of willingness to investigate.

He told the Gazette: "The way I see it this was an attempt on both our lives, we
were nearly murdered and the police failed to react in any way shape or form.

"The incident has left me shaken and financially out of pocket due to the £200
excess on my insurance.

"My real concern though is that something will only be done after someone has
been killed, which to be honest is only a matter of time."

Last week the Gazette revealed how drivers had to swerve to avoid falling debris
along the Brentwood and Chelmsford stretches of the A12 on Wednesday, November
12.

A concrete block smashed through the windscreen of David Greenwood's lorry as he
passed under Church Road, Mountnessing, at the height of rush hour.

The 49-year-old from Middlesbrough suffered a slight shoulder injury and was hit
in the face with flying debris inside the cab. Approximately £7,000 worth of
damage was caused to the truck.

Six more drivers were hit that evening.

And in October we revealed how a taxi driver and his passenger escaped unharmed
when a concrete slab was dropped onto the vehicle as they passed under a bridge
just before Shenfield.

Brentwood and Ongar MP Eric Pickles commended the Gazette's awareness campaign
adding: "Dropping concrete slabs onto a busy roadway like the A12 shows either
complete lack of understanding of normal logic and consequence or negligence and
indifference to human life.

"So far we've had a number of serious incidents but fortunately no one has been
killed but this is a ticking clock and I think we'd expect the perpetrators to
be found, to be stopped, and to be punished."

Officers responded immediately to the most recent incidents, also making use of
the force's helicopter, however no one was caught.

Police have since stepped up patrols and road policing Chief Inspector Tom
Diment said: "These incidents have now progressed from causing criminal damage
to almost breaking the arm of one motorist and next time the outcome could be
fatal.

"Whoever is responsible for these criminal acts needs to be stopped before
someone is killed.

He added: "We are also particularly interested to find out where the concrete is
coming from and would ask anyone who has noticed any going missing, perhaps from
a building site or private house, to contact us as soon as possible."

Chief Superintendent Mick Thwaites, commander of the Mobile Support Division,
said the force was committing its full resources to finding the people
responsible for "these reckless acts."

Anyone with information should call 0300 333 4444 or anonymously on 0800 555
111.

LOAD-DATE: June 11, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: 107


                        Copyright 2008 Brentwood Gazette
                              All Rights Reserved

                               2 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                     Daily Echo (Newsquest Regional Press)

                          November 26, 2008 Wednesday

Middlesex delay flight to India after terror attacks

SECTION: CRICKET (DE CRICKET)

LENGTH: 408 words


Middlesex captain Shaun Udal has revealed the team will not be travelling to
India as planned after a series of terrorist attacks hit Mumbai.

Gunmen launched attacks on a number of hotels in the city, which are reported to
have killed several people.

Middlesex were due to fly out to Mumbai tomorrow morning as they prepare to take
part in the inaugural Twenty20 Champions League, which sees the best teams
across the world compete for a £2.5m prize.

Middlesex won the domestic Twenty20 Cup to qualify for the competition and are
due to take on the Victoria Bushrangers on the opening day of the competition a
week today at Mumbai's Brabourne Stadium.

But Middlesex captain Shaun Udal, formerly of Hampshire, reported: ''All we know
is that our flights have been cancelled in the morning.

''We were due to fly out from Heathrow at 10 o'clock and we had a call tonight
to say that those plans were now cancelled, and the plan is to move the Mumbai
leg to Bangalore.''

With reports of the death count in Mumbai approaching three figures and
broadcast pictures of the mayhem including a fire-stricken scene at the Taj
Mahal Palace hotel Middlesex were due to stay in, Udal is grateful only that the
timing of the terrorist attacks appears to have saved him and his team.

''What has made it particularly disturbing is the fact that we were going to
stay at the Taj Palace Hotel 24 hours later,'' he added.

''That's really brought it to heart.

''If we had gone out 24 hours earlier then that would have been the Middlesex
team. It could have been us. That's what could have happened.''

Meanwhile, the England team were tonight taking advice from the Foreign Office
after the attack at the Taj Mahal Palace hotel - where they will be based in
three weeks' time.

The hotel is where the team began their tour of India three weeks ago and they
are due to return there on December 16 for the final Test starting three days
later.

England have been gathering information on the incidents, and media relations
manager Andrew Walpole confirmed: ''We will be guided by the foreign office and
will await developments. We need to get a clearer idea of what the situation is
before we react further.''

But the incidents are bound to cast doubts on whether England will be happy to
return to Mumbai for the final Test or whether the Champions League fixtures
will go ahead in the city.

England are currently in Cuttack and will be travelling to Guwahati to prepare
for Saturday's

LOAD-DATE: November 26, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2008 NewsQuest Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               3 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                          Press Association Mediapoint

                    November 26, 2008 Wednesday 9:03 PM BST

PM BACKS INDIAN GOVERNMENT OVER TERROR ATTACKS

BYLINE: Press Association Reporters

SECTION: HOME NEWS

LENGTH: 1614 words


Gordon Brown tonight vowed a ``vigorous response'' to attacks in Mumbai which
have left 78 people dead.

The Prime Minister promised to back the Indian government as it responds to the
series of incidents carried out by heavily-armed gunmen.

``These outrageous attacks in Mumbai will be met with a vigorous response,'' Mr
Brown said in a statement.

``I have sent a message to (Indian) Prime Minister (Manmohan) Singh that the UK
stands solidly with his government as they respond, and to offer all necessary
help.

``Urgent action is under way to offer every possible protection to British
citizens in the region.''

Another 200 people were injured when gunmen, described by police as
``terrorists'' opened fire on a crowded Mumbai railway station, luxury hotels
and a restaurant popular with tourists.

Johnny Joseph, chief secretary for Maharashtra state in India, of which Mumbai
is the capital, said the death toll could rise further.

The gunmen attacked the Chhatrapati Shivaji Terminus station in southern Mumbai
and Leopold's restaurant, a Mumbai landmark, along with the Oberoi and Taj Mahal
hotels.

There were unconfirmed reports of an explosion near the city's domestic airport.

Eye-witnesses caught up in the chaos said that gunmen were looking for Britons
and Americans.

Shivraj Patil, minister for home affairs in India told reporters that two
terrorists had been shot and two people arrested.

Indian television reports also claim that the country's anti-terrorism chief,
Hemant Karkare has been killed in the attacks.

There were also reports that Westerners had been taken hostage although a senior
police officer denied this.

India media organisations were reporting that they had received emails from an
unknown group, the Deccan Mujahideen, claiming responsibility for the attacks.

Conservative MEP Sajjad Karim was barricaded in a basement room after he fled
from machine-gun fire in the Taj Mahal hotel.

He said: ``I was in the lobby of the hotel when gunmen came in and people
started running. There were about 25 or 30 of us.

``Some of us split one way and some another. A gunman just stood there spraying
bullets around, right next to me. I managed to turn away and I ran into the
hotel kitchen and then we were shunted into a restaurant in the basement.

``We are now in the dark in this room and we've barricaded all the doors. It's
really bad.''

He said that as he ran from the lobby, he saw people falling but did not know
the extent of any casualties. He said it seemed to be a ``random attack''.

North West MEP Mr Karim is part of a trade delegation visiting Mumbai for talks
but all the other members of the group, which included two British MEPs are now
thought to be safe.

Alex Chamberlain, who works for a sports website and was in the city on
business, told Sky News the gunmen burst into the Oberoi hotel's restaurant and
herded diners upstairs.

He said he believed they were looking for British and American visitors.

``They told everybody to stop and put their hands up and asked if there were any
British or Americans. My friend said to me 'don't be a hero, don't say you are
British'.

``I am sure that is what this is all about. They were talking about British and
Americans specifically.''

He said that he and another man managed to escape the gunmen through a fire exit
and stumbled through smoke that was filling the hotel.

They made their way to the lobby and emerged outside to find fire engines and 20
armed policemen ``looking as scared as we were''.

He said the Indian friend he was dining with was ``still on the roof of that
hotel somewhere''.

A senior police officer said police are fighting the gunmen.

He said ``the terrorists have used automatic weapons and in some places grenades
have been lobbed''.

He said: ``The encounters are still going on and we are trying to overpower
them.''

A spokesman for the Foreign Office said he could not give any indication of the
number of Britons involved in the incident and could not comment on reports that
British people were being targeted.

He said the Foreign Office was advising all British nationals to stay indoors.

British national Liam Butler told the BBC that he was close to the Taj Mahal
hotel when it was attacked.

``We just thought there were some fireworks, we looked up expecting to see some
fireworks, but we then sort of brushed it off,'' he said.

However he was then unable to get back to his taxi and the news of the attack
quickly spread by word of mouth between taxi drivers in the area.

Mr Butler managed to get a taxi away from the area and was later by the domestic
airport when an explosion, which he described as a ``taxi bomb'', went off.

He said it took hours to reach the northern part of the city and it was a
``very, very panicked'' situation.

The Foreign Office warns travellers there is a ``high threat'' of terrorism
throughout India.

Attacks have targeted places of worship and major festivals such as Diwali as
well as areas popular with expatriates and foreign travellers.

Mumbai, known as the financial capital of India, has been among the major cities
targeted in violence across the country in recent years.

On July 11, 2006 there was a series of explosions on commuter trains in western
Mumbai, leaving more than 180 people dead and hundreds injured.

In some areas of the country there are terrorist incidents ``virtually on a
daily basis'', according to the Foreign Office.

As recently as October 30, 11 bombs exploded in Assam where a 30-year insurgency
campaign by an ultranationalist group is taking place, killing 77 people and
injuring more than 300.

In the US, a State Department spokesman said: ``We strongly condemn the
terrorist attacks that have taken place in Mumbai, India.

``Our sympathies go out to the families and friends of those killed and injured,
and to the people of Mumbai.

``We are monitoring the situation very closely and stand ready to support the
Indian authorities as they deal with this horrific series of attacks.

``At this point, we are unaware of any American casualties.''

Foreign Secretary David Miliband also spoke out against the attacks.

``Today's attacks in Mumbai which have claimed many innocent victims, remind us,
yet again, of the threat we face from violent extremists,'' he said in a
statement.

``I condemn these attacks unreservedly. Our thoughts are with the families and
friends of those killed and injured.

``The UK and India will continue their joint efforts to counter the actions of
terrorists.''

Fires could be seen burning in the top floors of the Taj Mahal hotel where
police are reportedly trying to overpower gunmen.

Liberal Democrat leader Nick Clegg said: ``Our immediate thoughts are with those
families who are worried about their loved ones. Everything must be done to help
them at this difficult time.

``When violent terrorism raises its ugly head, it is crucial that the
international community stands together.

``India and Britain have close historical ties which should rightly prompt a
signal of strong support from Britain to the Indian government.''

Middlesex skipper Shaun Udal said that that team has cancelled plans to fly out
to Mumbai tomorrow for the inaugural Twenty20 Champions League in the wake of
the attacks.

Udal confirmed they were postponing their plans by at least 24 hours, telling
Sky Sports News: ``All we know is our flight has been cancelled in the
morning.''

Udal said he understood the tournament was still set to go ahead but with the
Mumbai matches moved to Bangalore.

The Foreign Office later issued an emergency number - 02070080000 - for people
concerned about friends or relatives.

Indian government authorities later said that four terror suspects had been
killed as they tried to escape and nine others were arrested.

Tory leader David Cameron said: ``I utterly condemn the attacks that have taken
place in Mumbai and the terrible loss of life that has occurred.

``My thoughts are with all those who have been caught up in these attacks. India
and Britain stand together at this time in the face of terrorism.''

US president-elect Barack Obama's chief national security spokesman Brooke
Anderson said: ``President-Elect Obama strongly condemns today's terrorist
attacks in Mumbai and his thoughts and prayers are with the victims, their
families, and the people of India.

``These co-ordinated attacks on innocent civilians demonstrate the grave and
urgent threat of terrorism.

``The United States must continue to strengthen our partnerships with India and
nations around the world to root out and destroy terrorist networks.

``We stand with the people of India, whose democracy will prove far more
resilient than the hateful ideology that led to these attacks.''

White House press secretary Dana Perino said President George Bush ``offers his
condolences to the Indian people and the families of the innocent civilians
killed and injured in the attacks''.

``The United States condemns this terrorist attack and we will continue to stand
with the people of India in this time of tragedy,'' she said.

``This afternoon, the White House National Security Council convened officials
from counter-terrorism and intelligence agencies as well as the State and
Defence Departments.

``The US government continues to monitor the situation, including the safety and
security of our citizens, and stands ready to assist and support the Indian
government.''

She added that the president had been ``updated regularly''.

The Muslim Council of Britain (MCB) condemned the attacks in Mumbai.

Secretary general Dr Muhammad Abdul Bari said: ``I condemn this heinous act and
extend my sympathies and condolences to the bereaved.

``Many Britons have deep links with the city of Mumbai and India and I join them
in this hour of sadness and anxiety.''

LOAD-DATE: November 27, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newswire


                  Copyright 2008 The Press Association Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               4 of 500 DOCUMENTS




                          Airline Industry Information

                           November 27, 2008 Thursday

Mumbai airport resumes service following terrorist attacks on city

LENGTH: 143 words


Mumbai's Chhatrapati Shivaji International Airport is now operating normally
following terrorist attacks on buildings across Mumbai.

The attacks started on the night of 26 November are continuing today (27
November). So far 101 people are reported to have been killed in the attacks, in
which armed gunmen burst into various buildings with automatic weapons and
grenades.

According to The Economic Times, India, security has now been increased at the
airport and flights are operating as scheduled.

Air India released a press release stating that it is flying domestic and
international services as usual, as a result of Chhatrapati Shivaji
International Airport as a whole running normally.

The terrorist group responsible for the attacks is not known as yet, although
reports say that a relatively unknown organisation, Deccan Mujahideen, has
claimed involvement.

LOAD-DATE: November 27, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newsletter

JOURNAL-CODE: AII


                     Copyright 2008 M2 Communications Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                               5 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                       BBC Monitoring Trans Caucasus Unit
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                           November 27, 2008 Thursday

Iranian envoy decries Mumbai terror attacks

LENGTH: 147 words


Text of report in English by Iranian news channel Press TV website on 27
November

Iran's Consul General [in Mumbai] has vehemently condemned the recent terror
attacks in the Indian city of Mumbai, which left nearly 100 people dead.

Ali Mohammadi slammed what he called a "complicated and premeditated action",
Mehr news agency reported.

The terror acts began late Wednesday [26 November] as teams of heavily armed
gunmen staged a series of attacks across India's largest city of Mumbai. Gunmen
opened fire at a crowded railway station, two five-star hotels - Oberoi Trident
and Taj - and other sites. So far 101 people have been confirmed dead and an
unknown number of tourists have also been taken hostage. The Iranian Consul
General said there have been no reports indicating that Iranian nationals were
among the casualties.

Source: Press TV website, Tehran, in English 1056 gmt 27 Nov 08

LOAD-DATE: November 27, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2008 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                               6 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                 BBC Monitoring Former Soviet Union - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                           November 27, 2008 Thursday

World terrorist organizations linked to recent Vladikavkaz attack - Russian FSB

LENGTH: 168 words


Text of report by corporate-owned Russian news agency Interfax

Moscow, 27 November: Rebel underground with links to international terrorist
organizations has been involved in the terrorist attack in Vladikavkaz on 6
November, Aleksandr Bortnikov, director of the Russian Federal Security Service
[FSB] and chairman of the National Antiterrorist Committee, has said.

"The terrorist attack committed in Vladikavkaz on 6 November that left 12 people
dead and 43 injured was aimed, first of all, to destabilize the situation,"
Bortnikov said at a meeting with heads of antiterrorist commissions of the
constituent parts of the Russian Federation forming the Central Federal District
in Krasnogorsk [Moscow Region] on Thursday [27 November].

"The involvement of rebel underground linked to international terrorist
organizations in the crime has been established. A search for specific persons
who organized that crime is in progress," Bortnikov said.

Source: Interfax news agency, Moscow, in Russian 0925 gmt 27 Nov 08

LOAD-DATE: November 27, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2008 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                               7 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                    BBC Monitoring Asia Pacific - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                           November 27, 2008 Thursday

Japanese firms halt operations in Mumbai amid terror attacks

LENGTH: 309 words


Text of report in English by Japan's largest news agency Kyodo

Tokyo, Nov. 27 Kyodo - Business operations of Japanese companies in Mumbai were
paralysed Thursday amid a series of attacks in India's financial capital that
began Wednesday night as many firms rushed to suspend operations for safety
concerns.

Major trading houses including Mitsubishi Corp. decided to refrain from having
its employees travel to the region. Mitsui & Co. closed business at its branch
in Mumbai, while Sojitz Corp. ordered its workers to stay home in the city.

Among manufacturers, Canon Inc. suspended operations at its branch in the
suburbs of Mumbai, and NEC Corp. also temporarily shut its office.

According to the Foreign Ministry, more than 80 Japanese firms were operating
businesses in Mumbai as of January this year.

Economic ties between Japan and India have been growing as Japanese firms are
increasing investment in the fast-growing Indian economy.

Finance Ministry data show that Japan's direct investment in India in fiscal
2007 tripled from the previous year to 189.0bn yen. The amount of bilateral
trade totalled 1.24 trillion yen in 2007, about 2.3 times the amount in 2003.

But the terrorist attacks in the financial capital of India could dampen
investment fever among Japanese firms due to concerns over worsening security in
the region, observers say.

Many Japanese companies are positive towards expanding business in Asia. But the
simultaneous attacks in Mumbai following political unrest in Thailand may cast a
shadow on such a business strategy.

An official of a major Japanese chemical company said, "We want to decide what
to do by gathering information."

More than 100 people, including one Japanese businessman, were killed and over
300 people were injured in the series of attacks in Mumbai.

Source: Kyodo News Service, Tokyo, in English 1324 gmt 27 Nov 08

LOAD-DATE: November 27, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2008 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                               8 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                       BBC Monitoring Africa - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                           November 27, 2008 Thursday

SAfrica's Zuma offers condolences to India following Mumbai terror attacks

LENGTH: 209 words


Text of report by website of non-profit South African Press Association (SAPA)
news agency

JOHANNESBURG Nov 27 Sapa

ANC president Jacob Zuma on Thursday offered his condolences to the Indian
government after terrorist attacks in Mumbai.

"We meet under a dark cloud of sadness given the terror attacks in Mumbai,
India, which claimed more than 100 lives," Zuma told a conference of religious
leaders in Kempton Park.

Teams of heavily armed gunmen stormed luxury hotels, a popular restaurant and a
crowded train station in coordinated attacks across India's financial capital on
Wednesday night, firing shots indiscriminately, and taking Westerners hostage.

More than 100 people died in the orchestrated attacks that have paralysed
India's financial hub and biggest city.

"India and South Africa have a historical bond of friendship and solidarity.
What happens in India also affects many South Africans who have relatives and
friends in that country," Zuma said.

He extended condolences to India and wished the Indian government well in
dealing with the situation.

"There can be no justification for such senseless violence."

Government would continue to monitor the situation, he said.

Source: SAPA news agency website, Johannesburg, in English 1537 gmt 27 Nov 08

LOAD-DATE: November 27, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2008 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                               9 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring Middle East - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                           November 27, 2008 Thursday

Iran strongly condemns terrorist attack in Mumbai

LENGTH: 200 words


Text of report in English by Iranian official government news agency IRNA
website

Tehran, 27 November: Foreign Ministry spokesman Hasan Qashqavi in a statement on
Thursday [27 November] strongly condemned the terrorist attacks in Mumbai which
claimed lives of many civilians and injured over 1,000 people.

According to the Information and Press Bureau of the Ministry of Foreign
Affairs, in the statement, Qashqavi voiced the sympathy of the Iranian
government and nation to Indian government, people and the bereaved families of
victims as well as those injured in the terrorist attack. He also underlined
Iran's principled policy of condemning any act of terrorism.

The Islamic Republic of Iran was among the victims of terrorism in the past and
therefore it is ready to fight against the evil phenomenon forcefully, he said.

According to the latest news obtained by Iran's representative mission in India,
all Iranian nationals residing in Mumbai are safe.

More than 100 people including 5 top police officers and six constables were
killed and some 1,000 people injured in the terror attacks in Mumbai Wednesday
night.

Source: Islamic Republic News Agency website, Tehran, in English 1520 gmt 27 Nov
08

LOAD-DATE: November 27, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2008 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              10 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                       BBC Monitoring Africa - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                           November 27, 2008 Thursday

SAfrican Jewish Board of Deputies slams "callous" Mumbai terrorist attacks

LENGTH: 169 words


Text of report by press release service of South African Press Association
(SAPA) news agency

[Statement issued by the South African Jewish Board of Deputies: "Mumbai
Terrorist Attacks: Jewish Board Condemns Terrorism"]

27 November 2008

The callous spate of terrorist attacks in Mumbai on Wednesday 26 November is
indicative of the hate and disrespect of human life, irrespective of race,
religion or creed, that characterises such acts of terrorism. It is an evil that
should be fought wherever it occurs.

The South African Jewish Board of Deputies (SAJBD) adds its voice to those
expressing sympathy for the victims of this attack, and hopes that a speedy
resolution can be found to the crisis.

For comment please contact Zev Krengel on 082 557 9681.

Issued by Zev Krengel National Chairperson SAJDB

Charisse Zeifert Head: Communications SA Jewish Board of Deputies PO Box 87557
Tel: 082 427 2788 Houghton Fax: 086 614 6789 2041 email:charisse@beyachad.co.za

Source: SAPA website, Johannesburg, in English 1309 gmt 27 Nov 08

LOAD-DATE: November 27, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2008 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              11 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                            BBC Monitoring Kiev Unit
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                           November 27, 2008 Thursday

Ukraine condemns Mumbai terror attacks

LENGTH: 90 words


The Ukrainian government has condemned the acts of terrorism in Mumbai, India,
and expressed condolences to the Indian people, the Ukrainian news agency UNIAN
reported on 27 November.

"The Ukrainian government resolutely condemns terrorism in all its
manifestations and is ready to further support efforts by the world democratic
community aimed to root out terrorism, establish ethnic and religious peace and
understanding," a statement of the Ukrainian cabinet of Minister read.

Source: UNIAN news agency, Kiev, in Ukrainian 1558 gmt 27 Nov 08

LOAD-DATE: November 28, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2008 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              12 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                       BBC Monitoring Europe - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                           November 27, 2008 Thursday

Albanian premier condemns Mumbai terror attack

LENGTH: 180 words


Text of report in English by Albanian state news agency ATA

["Premier Berisha Condemns Terrorist Acts in India" -- ATA headline]

Tirana, 27 November (ATA) -- Premier Sali Berisha condemned harshly on Thursday
[27 November] the barbarous terrorist act in Mumbai (India) that claimed the
life of many innocent citizens and wounded hundreds of others.

Council of Ministers press office said Premier Berisha joins deep grief of
victims' families and offers them most sincere condolences wishing quick
recovery for the wounded.

According to press release, Premier Berisha offered deepest condolences and
solidarity to Indian government and Indian people.

"This act is another fact testifying that terrorism remains the main risk to
lives of free citizens and that firm fight against it is decisive to win the
battle against current fiercest enemy.

Albanian government supports all actions of Indian authorities with the full
belief that perpetrators of this tragedy will be punished harshly with the right
response," press release concluded.

Source: ATA, Tirana, in English 1134 gmt 27 Nov 08

LOAD-DATE: November 28, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2008 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              13 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                       BBC Monitoring Europe - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                           November 27, 2008 Thursday

Slovene Foreign Ministry condemns Mumbai terror attacks

LENGTH: 127 words


Text of report in English by Slovene news agency STA,

Ljubljana/Bombay, 27 November (STA) - The Slovenian Foreign Ministry has
strongly condemned the "horrible and inhuman terrorist attacks and hostage
taking" by militants in Mumbai, which have so far seen at least 125 people
killed and several hundred wounded. According to the ministry, no Slovenians
seem to be among the victims.

In a statement issue on Thursday [27 November], the ministry expressed its
support to the Indian authorities in their fight against terrorism. Sincere
condolences have been expressed to the families of the victims, with Foreign
Minister Samuel Zbogar also sending a cable to his Indian colleague Pranab
Mukherjee.

Source: STA news agency, Ljubljana, in English 1910 gmt 27 Nov 08

LOAD-DATE: November 28, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2008 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              14 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring South Asia - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                           November 27, 2008 Thursday

India: Opposition leader calls PM on Mumbai terror attacks

LENGTH: 99 words


Text of report by Indian news agency PTI

New Delhi, 26 November: Leader of the Opposition Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) L
K Advani Wednesday night spoke to Prime Minister Manmohan Singh over phone to
inquire about the terror attacks in Mumbai.

The Prime Minister told Advani that Chief Minister of the western Indian state
of Maharashtra Vilasrao Deshmukh is rushing back to Mumbai and the security
apparatus has been pressed into service to deal with the situation.

Advani asked the people to remain united at this time of emergency.

Source: PTI news agency, New Delhi, in English 1949gmt 26 Nov 08

LOAD-DATE: November 27, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2008 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              15 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring South Asia - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                           November 27, 2008 Thursday

India: PM condemns Mumbai terror attacks

LENGTH: 171 words


Text of report headlined "PM condemns terror attacks in Mumbai" published by
Indian news agency PTI on 27 November

New Delhi, 27 November -- Prime Minister Manmohan Singh on Wednesday night
condemned the terror attacks in Mumbai and assured all help to Maharashtra in
meeting the situation.

The Prime Minister's Office said Singh was in touch with Maharashtra Chief
Minister Vilasrao Deshmukh and was monitoring the situation.

Deshmukh also said that he was in touch with the central [federal] government
which had assured all help to meet the "very serious" situation.

He said he had talked to Home Minister Shivraj Patil, who assured that the
Centre [federal government] would provide all the assistance required by
Maharashtra.

The Centre has immediately decided to dispatch National Security Guard commandos
to supplement the efforts being made by local police and CRPF [Central Reserve
Police Force], Deshmukh said.

"We are trying to control the situation," he said

Source: PTI news agency, New Delhi, in English 0000gmt 27 Nov 08

LOAD-DATE: November 27, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2008 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              16 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                    BBC Monitoring Asia Pacific - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                           November 27, 2008 Thursday

Chinese premier, FM send condolences message over India terror attacks

LENGTH: 162 words


Text of report in English by official Chinese news agency Xinhua (New China News
Agency)

[Xinhua: "Chinese Premier Sends Condolences Message Over India Terror Attacks"]

BEIJING, Nov. 27 (Xinhua) - Chinese Premier Wen Jiabao on Thursday sent a
message of condolences to his Indian counterpart Manmohan Singh concerning the
coordinated terrorist attacks that killed more than 100 people in India's
financial capital of Mumbai.

In his message, Wen said the Chinese government strongly condemned Wednesday's
attacks, noting that the government is firmly opposed to terrorism of any form.

On behalf of the Chinese government and himself, Wen expressed deep grief for
the victims of the attacks and conveyed sincere condolences to the relatives of
the victims and those wounded in the violence.

Chinese Foreign Minister Yang Jiechi on Thursday also sent a condolences message
to his Indian counterpart Pranab Mukherjee.

Source: Xinhua news agency, Beijing, in English 1147 gmt 27 Nov 08

LOAD-DATE: November 27, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2008 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              17 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                BreakingNews.ie

                    November 27, 2008 Thursday 02:48 PM GMT

International condemnation of Mumbai terrorist attacks

SECTION: WORLD NEWS

LENGTH: 112 words


There has been international condemnation for terrorist attacks in Mumbai in
which at least 100 people have been killed.

The violence began last night when gunmen opened fire in a restaurant, the main
train station, and a hospital.

Foreigners have been taken hostage in two five-star hotels.

At least one Irish person, Geraldine Larkin from Co Offaly, was caught up in the
siege at the Taj Mahal hotel for a number of hours.

The Department of Foreign Affairs has said that it is setting up a crisis centre
for Irish citizens in Mumbai.

Meanwhile, the British Prime Minister Gordon Brown has said that he is appalled
by the violence, in which one person from the UK has been killed.

LOAD-DATE: November 27, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication


                    Copyright 2008 Thomas Crosbie Media Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              18 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                          Chemical News & Intelligence

                           November 27, 2008 Thursday

Mumbai in shock after terror attacks

LENGTH: 470 words


By Mahua Chakravarty

SINGAPORE (ICIS news)--Indian business sentiment has been hit by the recent
co-ordinated terror attacks on the country's commercial centre Mumbai, which
left an estimated 100 or more people dead and hundreds wounded, petrochemical
traders and a producer said on Thursday.

"The atmosphere is bad. Schools and colleges are closed and offices in the prime
area are also closed. We heard that 50 people have been taken hostage at the
Oberoi (hotel) and six to seven people at the Taj (hotel), and most of them are
foreigners," said a senior executive of a European petrochemical company.

He had been having dinner with colleagues about 400 metres from the Chatrapati
Shiraji Terminus, a main train terminal which was also attacked on Wednesday
night.

"I came out to take my laptop from the car and was told there were bombs about
400 metres away, so I ran into the restaurant to get all my colleagues to
leave," he said.

"Every month there is something (like that) happening. The common citizen knows
that the government can't protect their lives, but what can we do?" he added.

"Most of our staff travel by train, and I do not think any one will be commuting
in this situation," an Indian toluene trader said.

Trains were still running but due to the continuing hostage situation in the two
hotels people would be scared to venture out on the streets, he added.

Flights were being delayed or cancelled at present, while the Mumbai stock
exchange has suspended trading on Thursday, they said.

"This type of attack focussing on the prime business locations is unprecedented.
There is a feeling of helplessness at present ...the anger will come later. No
one wants to be caught on the road today so everything in south Mumbai is shut
including businesses, stock exchange and schools," said a base oils trader.

"Toluene trading here, in Mumbai, will commence after 12:30-1 pm Indian time, so
we won't be able to see the full extent of the impact prior to that," said a
second toluene trader, based in Mumbai.

Among those who were caught in the mayhem were senior executives from the global
consumer goods giant [1]Unilever Group, including CEO Patrick Cescau and
CEO-elect Paul Polman, according to newswire reports which placed them at one of
the hotels which was targeted.

The company officials, including the CEO was safe at this time, a company source
in Singapore confirmed.

With contributions from Chow Bee Lin, Steve Tan and Anu Agarwal

For more information on aromatics, visit [2]ICIS chemical intelligence

Please visit the complete [3]ICIS plants and projects database

To discuss issues facing the chemical industry go to [4]ICIS connect

References

1. http://www.unilever.com/ 2.
http://www.icis.com/v2/chemicals/intelligence.aspx 3.
http://www.icis.com/v2/directory/default.aspx 4.
http://www.icis.com/icisconnect/

LOAD-DATE: December 4, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                Copyright 2008 Reed Business Information Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              19 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                          Chemical News & Intelligence

                           November 27, 2008 Thursday

Reliance HQ closed after Mumbai terror attack

LENGTH: 203 words


SINGAPORE (ICIS news)--India's largest petrochemical producer Reliance has
closed its head office in southern Mumbai, a company source said on Thursday, a
day after [1]coordinated terror attacks left the city in a state of shock with
over a hundred people reported dead.

"Our HQ at Nariman Point is within walking distance from the hotels which were
attacked, and the areas surrounding these hotels have been cordoned off by the
police," the source said.

"We heard that gun fire between the terrorist and the police are still going on
now," he said.

Reliance's head office was expected to remain closed until the hostage crisis at
the hotels was resolved, but business was expected to continue from the
company's other offices in the suburbs, the source said.

An estimated 40-50 people including foreigners had been held hostage at the Taj
and Oberoi Hotels in Mumbai, according to media reports. For more on Reliance
Industries visit [2]ICIS company intelligence To discuss issues facing the
chemical industry go to [3]ICIS connect

References

1.
http://www.icis.com/Articles/2008/11/27/9174921/mumbai-in-shock-after-terror-att
acks.html 2. http://www.icis.com/v2/companies/companies_a-z.aspx 3.
http://www.icis.com/icisconnect/

LOAD-DATE: December 5, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                Copyright 2008 Reed Business Information Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              20 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                                  Daily Record

                          November 27, 2008, Thursday

CITY OF TERROR;
80MASSACRED IN INDIAN ATTACKS DEATH SQUADS TARGET BRIT TOURISTS HOSTAGES HELD IN
BLAZING HOTELS

BYLINE: By John Ferguson

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 964 words


TERRORISTS hunting British and American victims unleashed a wave of murder in
the Indian city of Mumbai last night.

At least 80 people were feared dead and reports claimed more than 900 had been
wounded.

The gunmen were believed to be holding dozens of hostages at two top hotels in
the city. The Taj Mahal and the Oberoi were in flames as police and soldiers
fought gun battles with the terrorists.

Witnesses from the two hotels told how the gunmen tried to single out Britons
and Americans.

Rakesh Patel, a UK citizen who managed to escape from the Taj Mahal, said: "They
were after the foreigners.

They were asking for British or American passports. They had bombs.

"They were young boys, maybe 20, 25 years old."

Police said between seven and 15 foreigners were prisoners at the Taj Mahal.
More hostages were feared to be captive at the Oberoi.

The gunmen, believed to be Muslim extremists, struck at least seven targets in
the city with AK47 assault rifles and grenades. Shooting went on for hours.

A spokesman at the main police control room said: "We have reports of 80 people
dead and at least 250 injured. Many have serious injuries and the toll will go
up."

Indian press reports put the number of wounded at 900.

The co-ordinated attacks had the hallmarks of terrorists linked to al-Qaeda.

Alittle-known Indian-based group calling themselves the Deccan Mujahideen
claimed responsibility.

Officials at one local hospital said a Japanese man had died there and nine
Europeans were being treated.

Three of the victims were critically ill with gunshot wounds. All had come from
the Taj Mahal.

At least two explosions were reported at the hotel, a historic Mumbai landmark.

A huge pall of smoke rose as the building caught fire and screams were heard as
firefighters sprayed water on the blaze.

Witnesses told how gunmen ran into the lobby and opened fire indiscriminately
with automatic weapons. One horrified onlooker said: "I saw people hitting the
floor, people right next to me."

Tory Euro MP Sajjad Karim found himself under siege in the hotel basement as the
terrorists ran amok.

He and others barricaded themselves into a room in a bid to save themselves.

Karim spoke to journalists on a mobile phone from his bolthole.

He said: "I was in the lobby of the hotel when gunmen came in and people started
running. There were about 25 or 30 of us.

"Some of us split one way and some another. A gunman just stood there spraying
bullets around, right next to me.

"I managed to turn away and ran into the kitchen and then we were shunted into a
restaurant in the basement.

"We are now in the dark in this room and we've barricaded all the doors."

Karim, an MEP from north-east England, was visitingMumbai in the runup to a
summit between the EU and India.

He was believed still to be trapped in the bowels of the hotel, along with
several other MEPs from the Continent, last night. He texted reporters to say he
"could not speak".

Soldiers surrounded the Taj Mahal as the chaos continued and there were new
reports of shooting and explosions inside the blazing building.

Firefighters were trying to rescue guests from top-floor windows.

A Briton who escaped from the Oberoi told how armed fanatics burst into the
hotel's restaurant looking for Britons and Americans.

Alex Chamberlain, who fled the building through a fire escape, said: "They told
everybody to stop and put their hands up and asked if there were any British or
Americans. My friend said to me, 'Don't be ahero, don't say you are British.' "I
thought, 'Fine, they're going to shoot me if they ask me anything.' Thank God
they didn't."

Several hours after the attacks began, 100 elite police commandos stormed the
Oberoi. Firing was quickly heard from inside.

The terrorists had begun the onslaught hours earlier by attacking a railway
station in the south of the city at 10.30pm local time (5.30GMT). Police said:
"They entered the passenger hub and started firing."

The terrorists sprayed bullets into a crowd of passengers, leaving the floor of
the concourse covered with blood. A nearby petrol station was blown up.

The fanatics also targeted a police station and set off a car bomb at Mumbai's
main domestic airport.

More attacks were reported at the Trident Hotel, the Marriott, the Ville Parte
and the city's famous Leopold Cafe.

At the Leopold, a favourite destination for foreigners, the walls were left
riddled with bullet holes.

The floor was smeared with blood and littered with shoes left behind by fleeing
customers.

Some sources said people were being held hostage at the city's Cama Hospital,
while other reports said gunmen were surrounded in the building.

There were fears last night that a group of Royal Bank of Scotland employees, on
a business trip to Mumbai, could be caught up in the mayhem in the city.

The head of the Mumbai police anti-terrorist squad and two other senior officers
were reportedly killed in shootouts with the fanatics.

Police said two attackers had been killed at the Taj Mahal and four others had
been shot dead as they tried to flee in cars. Nine terrorists had been captured.

The Deccan Mujahideen are believed to be based in the south of India.

A group called the Indian Mujahideen has been blamed for a recent wave of
attacks in the country. They threatened recently to attack Mumbai, claiming
Muslims were being harassed by the police there.

Prime Minister Gordon Brown said last night: "These outrageous attacks in Mumbai
will be met with a vigorous response.

"The UK stands solidly with the Indian government as they respond. Urgent action
is under way to offer every possible protection to British citizens."

The Foreign Office advised UK citizens in Mumbai to stay indoors. Officials
issued an emergency number - 0207 008 0000 - for people worried about relatives.

'They asked for the British and the Americans'

LOAD-DATE: November 27, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: INFERNO: The Taj hotel burns
RAMPAGE: One of the gunmen in Mumbai last night
RIPPED APART: Acar lies wrecked after a grenade road blast. An injured security
guard hides behind a wall
HURT: A policeman gives a sip of water to tiny victim
HORROR: The railway station. Below right, the scene after two suspects were
killed by cops. Below left, the Taj Mahal

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


            Copyright 2008 Scottish Daily Record & Sunday Mail Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              21 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                              Daily Mail (London)

                           November 27, 2008 Thursday
                                  1ST Edition

Britons are held hostage in terror attack on Bombay

BYLINE: Nick McDermott, Caroline Grant, Ryan Kisiel

SECTION: Pg. 2

LENGTH: 691 words


UP to 40 Britons were being held hostage in Bombay last night after a wave of
deadly terror attacks.

An armed gang targeted seven tourist locations in the Indian city seeking anyone
with a British or American passport.

At least 80 were killed and more than 900 injured after the gunmen opened fire
indiscriminately.

Police engaged them in running gun battles after the initial attacks.

Seven British hostages were seized at the central Taj Mahal hotel, one of two
targeted along with a hospital.

Rakesh Patel, a Briton who works for HSBC and was staying in the hotel, said:
'There was a lot of smoke and they had guns. They came through the restaurant
and they took us up the stairs.

'They wanted all those with a British or American passport.' He said the gunmen
were in their 20s and carrying bombs.

'They told everyone to drop their phones and to come with them and then at that
point the blast hap- pened,' he added.

'So we decided to run outside but around 15 were taken, not just British and
Americans but Indians as well. They were taken up to the 20th floor but we had
run outside.' Alex Chamberlain, a Briton in Bombay on business, was in the
restaurant of the exclusive Oberoi hotel when gunmen burst in and herded 80
diners upstairs.

'They told everybody to stop and put their hands up and asked if there were any
British or Americans,' he said. 'My friend said to me, don't be a hero, don't
say you are British.' The pair managed to escape through a fire door where they
stayed for about 15 minutes.

Mr Chamberlain, who works for cricket's Indian Premier League, said: 'I phoned
my girlfriend and told her I loved her and thought it would be the last time I
would talk to anyone.' There was also an attack on Cafe Leopold, the city's most
famous restaurant.

Shivraj Patel, India's home minister, said: 'They have kept explosives in their
clothes, and they are firing at people in hotels. In the Taj four to five
terrorists were there. The were also four to five in the Oberoi.

'They are trying to throw explosives from the roof of another building. They
have attacked the hospital. They attacked the railway station.' Conservative MEP
Sajjad Karim - in Bombay for trade talks - was also in the Taj

Mahal. 'I was in the lobby of the hotel when gunmen came in and people started
running,' he said. 'There were about 25 or 30 of us.

'Some of us split one way and some another. A gunman just stood there spraying
bullets around, right next to me.

'I managed to turn away and I ran into the hotel kitchen and then we were
shunted into a restaurant in the basement.' A still image broadcast on Indian
television showed a young terrorist storming a hotel armed with an AK47.

The city's police commissioner said two terrorists were gunned down and two
arrested by his officers.

However, Hemant Karkare, an anti-terror police chief, was reportedly shot dead
tackling the gunmen.

Gordon Brown promised to back the Indian government in its response to the
outrage.

'These outrageous attacks in Mumbai will be met with a vigorous response,' said
the Prime Minister in a statement.

The England cricket team's tour of India is in doubt because the side had booked
to stay in the Taj from December 16. The Middlesex county side are due in the
hotel next week.

Bombay, now known as Mumbai, is the financial capital of India and has an
estimated 13million inhabitants..

MILITANT GROUP'S CLAIM

A MUSLIM terror group calling itself the Deccan Mujahideen claimed last night
that it was behind the attacks in Bombay.

Islamist militants have repeatedly targeted India's bustling film and financial
centre in the last 20 years.

But they now appear to have switched to attacking foreigners in an attempt to
cause maximum damage to India's economy and international reputation. India has
blamed most of the recent terror attacks on its soil on Islamist militant groups
based in Pakistan or Bangladesh.

Islamic militants have been blamed for all recent attacks on Bombay, including
multiple bombings of trains and railways stations that killed more than 180
people in 2006.

Al Qaeda has repeatedly threatened to attack India in revenge for its policies
in the divided territory of Kashmir..

LOAD-DATE: November 27, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Scene of terror: This Bombay railway station was among last night's
targets

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Papers


                   Copyright 2008 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              22 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                            Daily Post (North Wales)

                           November 27, 2008 Thursday
                                 Mersey Edition

Terrorist attacks kill 78 in India;
Brown promises 'vigorous response

BYLINE: LIAM CHRISTOPHER Daily Post Correspondent

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 409 words


GORDON BROWN last night vowed a "vigorous response" to attacks in Mumbai which
have left 78 people dead.

The Prime Minister promised to back the Indian government as it responds to the
series of incidents carried out by heavily-armed gunmen.

"These outrageous attacks in Mumbai will be met with a vigorous response," Mr
Brown said.

"Urgent action is under way to offer every possible protection to British
citizens in the region."

Another 200 people were injured when gunmen, described by police as
"terrorists", opened fire on a crowded Mumbai railway station, luxury hotels and
a restaurant popular with tourists.

Officials said the death toll could rise further.

The gunmen attacked the Chhatrapati Shivaji Terminus station, in southern
Mumbai, and Leopold's restaurant, a Mumbai landmark, along with the Oberoi and
Taj Mahal hotels.

There were unconfirmed reports of an explosion near the city's domestic airport.

Eyewitnesses caught up in the chaos said that gunmen were looking for Britons
and Americans.

Shivraj Patil, minister for home affairs in India told reporters that two
terrorists had been shot and two people arrested.

There were also reports that Westerners had been taken hostage.

India media organisations were reporting that they had received emails from an
unknown group, the Deccan Mujahideen, claiming responsibility.

North West Conservative MEP Sajjad Karim was barricaded in a basement room after
he fled from machine-gun fire in the Taj Mahal hotel.

He said: "I was in the lobby of the hotel when gunmen came in and people started
running. There were about 25 or 30 of us.

"Some of us split one way and some another. A gunman just stood there spraying
bullets around, right next to me. I managed to turn away and I ran into the
hotel kitchen and then we were shunted into a restaurant in the basement.

"We are now in the dark in this room and we've barricaded all the doors. It's
really bad."

He said that as he ran from the lobby, he saw people falling but did not know
the extent of any casualties. He said it seemed to be a "random attack".

Mr Karim is part of a trade delegation visiting Mumbai for talks, but all the
other members of the group, which included two British MEPs, are now thought to
be safe.

Alex Chamberlain, who was in the city on business, said the gunmen burst into
the Oberoi hotel's restaurant and herded diners upstairs.

He said he believed they were looking for British and US visitor

LOAD-DATE: November 27, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:  Passengers' luggage lies scattered on a blood-splattered platform at
the Chhatrapati Shivaji Terminus railway station, in Mumbai, India: MEP Sajjad
Karim

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2008 Trinity Mirror plc
                              All Rights Reserved

                              23 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                             Daily Record (PM) - UK

                           November 27, 2008 Thursday
                                  East Edition

BRIT KILLED IN MUMBAI TERROR ATTACK RAMPAGE;
Carnage in India as gunmen target tourists

BYLINE: Martin Cameron

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 946 words


A BRITON was confirmed dead today after terrorists went on the rampage in the
Indian city of Mumbai killing at least 100 people.

Hundreds more were wounded after gunmen stormed two luxury hotels, a train
station, a hospital and a restaurant in a co-ordinated series of attacks last
night.The bloodbath continued this morning as Indian troops surrounded the
TajMahal Palace and Oberoi Trident hotels where hundreds ofWesterners were being
held hostage.

There was a series of explosions at both buildings and bursts of gunfire were
heard.

Later Indian troops said they had cleared the Taj Mahal hotel of terrorists and
bodies and hostages began to be brought out from the building.

Witnesses from the two five-star hotels said the heavily-armed militants had
tried to single out Britons and Americans in the wave of violence.

Rakesh Patel, a UK citizen who managed to escape from the TajMahal, said: "They
were after foreigners. They were asking for British or American passports. They
had bombs. They were young boys, maybe 20,25 years old."

Another Brit who escaped from the Oberoi told how the armed fanatics burst into
the hotel's restaurant looking for Britons and Americans.

Alex Chamberlain, who fled the building through a fire escape, said: "They told
everybody to stop and put their hands up and asked if there were any British or
Americans.

"My friend said to me, 'Don't be a hero, don't say you are British.' I thought,
'Fine, they're going to shoot me if they ask me anything.' Thank God they
didn't."

The gunmen, believed to be Muslim extremists, struck at least seven targets in
the city with AK47 assault rifles and grenades. Shooting went on for hours.

An Indian police spokesman said today that at least one Briton was among the
dead. Seven more Brits were wounded.

Pradeep Indulkar, a senior official at the Maharashtra state Home Ministry said
101 people were killed and 314 injured.

He added that at least one British, Australian and Japanese national were among
the dead.

Briton FionnaMurphy was one of five westerners taken to Bombay Hospital.

The others named were Michael Rudder, Helen Connolly, 49, John Davies, 20, John
Pike, 28.

Prime Minister Gordon Brown described the attacks as "outrageous" and vowed to
back the Indian government's response to the atrocity.

State Home Minister R.R. Patil revealed nine people had been arrested and
pledged that the authorities would hunt down those responsible. He added "We're
going to catch them dead or alive. An attack on Mumbai is an attack on the rest
of the country."

Police said four attackers had been killed at the Taj Mahal hotel and four
others had been shot dead as they tried to flee in cars.

The head of the Mumbai police anti-terrorist squad and two other senior officers
were killed in shootouts with the fanatics.

Indian Prime Minister Manmohan Singh said the people of the country were united
against the attacks.

He added: "Existing laws will be tightened to ensure there are no loopholes
available to terrorists to escape the clutches of the law."

Today it was feared there may be more Brits among the dead and injured as the
scale of the attacks became clearer.

The British High Commissioner in India, Sir Richard Stagg, said: "We have met
seven British victims who are in hospital at the moment and we understand there
is likely to be some others of British nationality.

"It is a very difficult and tense situation.

Clearly there has been a massive and carefully planned operation which has
changed the way in which terrorism has been operated in India and it will make
everybody here reflect on how best to deal with this scourge."

There were also fears last night that a group of Royal Bank of Scotland
employees, on a business trip to Mumbai, could be caught up in the mayhem. It
was not clear today whether they were safe.

The co-ordinated attacks in the city formerly known as Bombay had the hallmarks
of terrorists linked to al-Qaeda.

A little-known Indian-based group calling themselves the Deccan Mujahideen
claimed responsibility.

The terrorists began their onslaught by attacking a railway station in the south
of the city at 10.30pm local time last night (5.30pm GMT).

They sprayed bullets into a crowd of passengers, leaving the floor of the
concourse covered with blood.

The fanatics also targeted a police station and set off a car bomb at Mumbai's
main domestic airport. A nearby petrol station was also blown up.

At the Leopold Cafe, a restaurant popular whith foreigners, the walls were left
riddled with bullet holes.

The floor was smeared with blood and littered with shoes left behind by fleeing
customers. There were also reports of an attack at Cama Hospital.

The Taj Mahal hotel, a historic landmark in the city of Mumbai, caught fire
during the rampage.

Tory Euro MP Sajjad Karim found himself under siege in the hotel basement as the
miltants ran amok.

He said: "I was in the lobby of the hotel when gunmen came in and people started
running. There were about 25 or 30 of us.

"Some of us split one way and some another. A gunman just stood there spraying
bullets around, right next to me.

"I managed to turn away and ran into the kitchen and then we were shunted into
the basement."

Karim, who was visiting Mumbai in the run-up to a summit between the EU and
India, said security forces fought gunmen "floor by floor and room by room" to
gain control of the hotel.

He added: "The situation in the city is still ongoing but at the Taj I think it
is is over."

The Foreign Office advised UK citizens in Mumbai to stay indoors. Officials
issued an emergency number - 0207 008 0000 - for people worried about relatives
and friends.

LOAD-DATE: November 27, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:  TRAUMA: Avictim is taken to a local hospital
 HORROR: The railway station. Below right, the scene after two suspects were
killed by cops. Below left, the Taj Mahal
 HURT: A policeman gives a sip of water to tiny victim
 RIPPED APART: Acar lies wrecked after a grenade road blast. An injured security
guard hides behind a wall

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                           Copyright 2008 MGN Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              24 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                                  Ealing Times

                           November 27, 2008 Thursday

Sharma condemns Indian terror attacks

SECTION: NEWS (NEWS)

LENGTH: 271 words


A LOCAL MP has condemned the Mumbai terrorist attacks and asked: "Where will it
stop?" (writes Neil Wilson) Virendra Sharma MP (Lab/Ealing Southall) has spoken
out against the shootings that have claimed over 100 lives so far, and left many
more injured.

Terrorists opened fire at several major tourist sites in the Indian city last
night, taking scores hostage.

Although some of the hostages have been released, the gunmen are thought to have
been singling out British passport holders.

Mr Sharma said: "It is an attack on democracy, tolerance and equality.

"It is sad so many innocent lives have been lost, but it is nothing new."

The attacks are yet another in a long line of bombings and incidents that have
rocked the world's largest democracy in the last few years.

The Labour MP, who has tabled motions in Parliament to condemn terrorist actions
in the past, is calling "on all those who believe in humanity, democracy and
tolerance to condemn these attacks."

Southall has a large Indian population and he said: "The news is affecting the
general morale of the community.

"My phone has been ringing continously, there is concern about what's happening.
Where will it stop?"

Mayor of London Boris Johnson has also expressed his condemnation of events in
India.

He said: "I am shocked and saddened at such violence and terror, which cannot be
tolerated anywhere, at any time.

"London has a large Indian population and historic ties to that wonderful
country and I wish to offer our city's sympathy and support at this difficult
moment."

The Foreign Office has issued an emergency number for people with relatives in
Mumbai: 0207 008 0000.

LOAD-DATE: November 27, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2008 NewsQuest Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              25 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                         The Evening Standard (London)

                           November 27, 2008 Thursday
                                   C Edition

Terror attacks shut India's exchange;
IN BRIEF

SECTION: Pg. 28

LENGTH: 64 words


TERRORIST attacks that killed more than 100 people in Mumbai shut India's stock
market today for the first time in more than three years.

Investors feared the attacks would hit share prices. Bond and commodities
exchanges were also shut. India's main shares index, the Sensex, is already 56%
down this year its worst performance on record. The markets are expected to
reopen tomorrow..

LOAD-DATE: November 27, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2008 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              26 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                         The Evening Standard (London)

                           November 27, 2008 Thursday
                                   B Edition

SLAUGHTER OF THE TOURISTS;
Britons hostage in Mumbai hotel terror attacks

SECTION: Pg. 1

LOAD-DATE: November 27, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Innocent victims: bodies of tourists lie beside the pool at a five-star
hotel in Mumbai after terrorist attacks on the Indian city. Many Britons were
still held today as gun battles raged with security forces Pages 2, 3, 4, 5 & 13

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2008 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              27 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                         The Evening Standard (London)

                           November 27, 2008 Thursday
                                   B Edition

Terror attacks shut Indian exchange;
MARKETS

SECTION: Pg. 29

LENGTH: 207 words


TERRORIST attacks that killed more than 100 people in Mumbai caused the closure
of the Indian stock market today for the first time in more than three years.

Other markets, including the bond and commodities exchanges, were also shut.
Investors feared the attacks, which appear to be targeting US and British
visitors, would hammer share prices.

India's main shares index, the Sensex, is already 56% down this year its worst
performance on record.

There were also concerns about the impact the attacks will have on the Indian
currency, the rupee.

So-called credit-default swaps, which insure against companies failing to meet
debt repayments, rose 20 basis points in price for the government-controlled
Indian lender, the State Bank of India to 440.

But futures markets trading bets from abroad were not in absolute free fall. In
Singapore, Indian stock index futures were only down 2.4%, with rupee futures
about 0.8% lower.

Traders said these were fairly illiquid markets and the true impact will not be
known until Mumbai's bourses opene for business again, which is expected
tomorrow.

Ajay Bodke, fund manager at IDFC Assets Management in Mumbai, said: "The
terrorist attack was in the financial hub. India needs to deal with this with an
iron hand."

LOAD-DATE: November 27, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2008 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              28 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                         The Evening Standard (London)

                           November 27, 2008 Thursday
                                   A Edition

(1) England tour in doubt after terrorist attacks in Mumbai (2) Test series in
doubt after outrages in Mumbai;
(1) One day series abandoned as talks on Tests continue (2) Middlesex's trip for
the Champions League threatened

BYLINE: DAVID LLOYD

SECTION: Pg. 54

LENGTH: 422 words


ENGLAND'S cricket tour of India was put on hold today and could be abandoned
following the terrorist attacks in Mumbai which left more than 100 people dead.

Middlesex, who were due to arrive in the city tonight and stay in one of the
targeted hotels ahead of next week's Champions League, postponed plans to fly
out of Heathrow this morning.

And the England team, staying in Bhubaneswar, 850 miles from the scene of the
outrages, are waiting to hear whether their tour will go ahead.

The last two one-day internationals, in Guwahati on Saturday and in Delhi next
Tuesday, have already been called off and the fate of the two Test matches
including one in Mumbai next month is in the balance.

It was thought Kevin Pietersen's squad might fly home today. Instead, they will
remain in Bhubaneswar for at least the next 24 hours while senior England and
India officials discuss the situation.

Hugh Morris, managing director of England Cricket and travelling with
Pietersen's team, is among those in talks while ECB bosses in London have been
liaising with the Foreign Office. "The safety and security of the team is
paramount," said one ECB spokesman.

The one-day series has ended with India 5-0 ahead. As for the Tests, much may
depend on whether Pietersen and his team want to remain in India, although the
security situation may Test series in doubt after outrages in Mumbai take the
matter out of their hands. They became aware of the atrocities in Mumbai last
night soon after losing in Cuttack.

Their sense of shock was increased because they were in Mumbai only a fortnight
ago and stayed in the Taj Mahal Palace hotel, which was attacked by terrorists
last night and was still being held by them earlier today.

England are due back at the hotel on 16 December for the Second Test against
India. At the very least those plans will have to change although there must be
a real possibility, that the rest of the tour will be cancelled.

Middlesex cricketers would have been at the centre of the horror if they had
travelled to Mumbai 24 hours later.

England's Twenty20 champions were due to stay at the Taj hotel from tonight
ahead of next Wednesday's opening Champions League match against Victoria in
Mumbai.

"I've been watching it on TV and it's horrific," said skipper Shaun Udal." Our
first thoughts are with those involved.

"What has made it particularly disturbing is the fact we were going to stop at
the Taj Mahal Palace hotel. If we had gone 24 hours earlier then that would be
the place where we would have been. It could have been us."

LOAD-DATE: November 27, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: On guard: a soldier patrols the grounds of England's hotel in
Bhubaneswar today, as security is stepped up following the attacks

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2008 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              29 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                         The Evening Standard (London)

                           November 27, 2008 Thursday
                                   A Edition

MUMBAI TERROR ATTACKS: BRITONS HOSTAGE;
Tourists die in gun fights

BYLINE: AMAR SINGH, SHEKHAR BHATIA

SECTION: Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1162 words


AT LEAST one Briton was killed and dozens were feared to be hostages today
following an extraordinary series of terror attacks on Mumbai.

Seven Britons are among hundreds wounded as terrorists targeted tourist hubs in
India's financial capital. At least 200 people were trapped in two five-star
hotels as gun battles and explosions rocked the city.

Britain's High Commissioner to India, Sir Richard Stagg, confirmed today that
one British citizen had been killed. More than 100 ' Hands up if you are British
or American' people were confirmed dead as gunmen wielding AK- 47s attacked a
hospital and the main railway station where they fired indiscriminately at
passengers on the concourse of the Chhatrapati Shivaji Terminus, causing a
stampede, injuring around 250 people .

In the Taj Mahal hotel, guests were freed early today but at the Oberoi Trident
Hotel running battles continued between the Indian security forces and scores of
gunmen.

Earlier today, helicopter gunships were circling over the hotels.

The city's director general of police, A N Roy, said the terror attacks had been
a " very well planned and large operation".

" This is an unprecedented, very cowardly, dastardly attack. It is an attack on
the entire country, the innocent population," he said.

The sophisticated tactics used for the the attacks and their audacity have led
police to suspect that a wider terrorist organisation was involved.

Experts were split over possible links to al Qaeda terror training camps in
Pakistan or Kashmiri insurgents such as Lashkar- e- Taiba. While it involved ..
..co- ordinated attacks on high profile targets, there were no sign of suicide
bombers. Hostage taking is also not al Qaeda's usual modus operandi.

The situation was described as " highly volatile" as commandoes and marksmen
were drafted in with police believing the terrorists would not be easily led
into negotiations to secure the release of those being held.

Mumbai police confirmed that at least six foreigners were among the 101 people
killed. A police source said: " There are 40 or 50 hostages still being held. It
is a live situation so we are in no position to give names, although we know
that British and Americans are among them.

There are still stand- offs taking place." Western tourists were apparently
specifically targeted as hostages. Eyewitnesses said the gunmen asked for
British and American passport holders in the hotel. Alex Chamberlain, who works
for a sports website and was in the city on business, said the gunmen burst into
the Oberoi hotel's restaurant and herded diners upstairs.

He said he believed they were looking for British and American visitors.

" They told everybody to stop and put their hands up and asked if there were any
British or Americans. My friend said to me, ' don't be a hero, don't say you are
British'.

" I am sure that is what this is all about. They were talking about British and
Americans specifically." He said that he and another man managed to escape
through a fire exit and stumbled through smoke that was filling the hotel. They
made their way to the lobby and emerged outside to find fire engines and 20
armed policemen " looking as scared as we were".

He said the Indian friend he was dining with was " still on the roof of that
hotel somewhere".

Another Briton, Liam Butler, was close to the Taj Mahal hotel when it was
attacked. " We just thought there were some fireworks, we looked up expecting to
see some fireworks, but we then sort of brushed it off," he said.

However he was then unable to get back to his taxi as news of the attack quickly
spread by word of mouth between taxi drivers in the area.

Conservative MEP Sajjad Karim, who is in India with a group of other Euro MPs,
was in the Taj Mahal hotel and he and others had to flee from machinegun fire. "
I was in the lobby of the hotel when gunmen came in and people started running.
There were about 25 or 30 of us. Some of us split one way and some another. A
gunman just stood there spraying bullets around, right next to me.

" I ran into the kitchen and then we were shunted into a restaurant in the
basement. We are now in the dark in this room and we've barricaded all the
doors. It's really bad." They also attacked the Santa Cruz domestic airport and
Cama and GT Hospitals, where many of the dead and injured were taken.

Another siege was taking place at Nariman House, a nearby apartment building
owned by a Jewish organisation which includes a synagogue.

Five familes were believed to have been held hostage there. There were also
reports of shootings at Leopold's Cafe a popular haunt with foreign backpackers
and ex- pats.

The Foreign Office today advised against all Britons travelling to India.

The England Cricket team, cancelled two remaining one day internationals against
India and stayed in Bhubaneshwar today, as the ECB considered bringing the
players home.

Mumbai.'s stock exchange was closed, along with schools and businesses as both
Gordon Brown and Barack Obama condemned the attacks .

Flights into the city were cancelled, trains stopped from running, roads were
gridlocked. The Indian cabinet, led by Prime Minister Manmohan Singh, went into
emergency meeting with the PM expected to address the nation later.

Security was also stepped up in potential flash points such as Kashmir and New
Delhi in fear of further attacks .

India's head of anti- terrorism Hemant Karkare was also gunned down in what was
believed to have been one of the terrorists' main targets. Four gunmen were
killed and nine more were under arrest.

A group calling itself the Deccan Mujahideen claimed responsibility for the
attacks via emails sent to media o u t l e t s in Mumbai.

The Foreign Office issued a phone number for people worried about friends or
relatives: 020 7008 0000

'HOLY WARRIORS' BEHIND ATTACKS

A GROUP calling itself the Deccan Mujahideen claimed responsibility for the
Mumbai attacks in emails to the media.

Analysts said that while it is not clear whether the claim is genuine, the
attacks were most likely carried out by the Indian Mujahideen.

Deccan refers to a southern Indian plateau and Mujahideen is a Muslim term for "
holy warriors", so the attackers could be from this area.

Indian police say the Indian Mujahideen is an off- shoot of the banned Students'
Islamic Movement of India. This group has been blamed for almost every major
bomb attack in India, including explosions on Mumbai. commuter trains two years
ago that killed 187.

In an email to the media in September, the group denounced Mumbai's police anti-
terrorist squad, accusing it of harassing Muslims.

" If this is the degree your arrogance has reached& then let the Indian
Mujahideen warn all the people of Mumbai that whatever deadly attacks Mumbaikars
( residents of the city) will face in future, their responsibility would lie
with the Mumbai ATS and their guardians," it said.

Experts also said the use of such a large number of gunmen were the hallmarks of
Kashmiri anti- India insurgents Lashkar- e- Tayyaba.

LOAD-DATE: November 27, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: (1) Assassin: one of the gunmen who attacked tourist hubs in Mumbai.
Explosions rocked the city (2) Led to safety: shocked tourists in the street
outside the hotel. Some said the gunmen demanded British and American passports.
Security forces, right, were faced with gunmen armed with AK47 rifles and
grenades (3) Desperate escape: guests and staff used knotted curtains to flee
the Taj Mahal hotel where there were battles between gunmen and security forces.
Hostages were freed early today but sieges carried on elsewhere in the city (4)
Rescued: a tourist leaves her hotel

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2008 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              30 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                         The Evening Standard (London)

                           November 27, 2008 Thursday
                                   A Edition

Terror attacks shut Indian exchange;
MARKETS

SECTION: Pg. 29

LENGTH: 248 words


THE Indian stock market was closed today for the first time in more than three
years after the terrorist attacks which killed more than 100 people and left
hundreds injured in the financial hub of Mumbai last night.

Other markets, including the bond and commodities exchanges, were also closed as
negotiations to free up to 200 Western hostages continued.

Investors feared the attacks, which appear to be targeting US and British
visitors, would hammer share prices.

India's main shares index, the Sensex, is already 56% down this year its worst
performance on record.

There were also concerns about the impact the attacks will have on the Indian
currency, the rupee.

So-called credit-default swaps, which insure against companies failing to meet
debt repayments, rose 20 basis points in price for the government-controlled
Indian lender, the State Bank of India to 440.

But futures markets trading bets on the Indian markets from abroad were not in
absolute free fall. In Singapore, Indian stock index futures were only down 2.5%
while futures on the rupee were down about 0.8%.

However, traders cautioned that these were fairly illiquid markets and that the
true impact would not be known until Mumbai's bourses opened for business again,
which is expected tomorrow.

Ajay Bodke, fund manager at IDFC Assets Management in Mumbai, said: "We will see
a ripple effect in terms of investor sentiment as the terrorist attack was in
the financial hub.

"India needs to deal with this with an iron hand."

LOAD-DATE: November 27, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2008 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              31 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                  Guardian.com

                               November 27, 2008

Dozens still held hostage in Mumbai after night of terror attacks

LENGTH: 698 words


Dozens of people were being kept hostage by gunmen in India's financial capital
Mumbai today, more than 12 hours after the city suffered a coordinated series of
attacks on luxury hotels, popular restaurants, a rail terminus and an
ultra-orthodox Jewish centre.Maharashtra state police chief AN Roy said that the
hostage situation had ended at the Taj Mahal hotel, but that there were still
apparently hostages in the Oberoi hotel.

The death toll in the audacious attack has now risen to 101 with more than 300
people injured. Police and gunmen exchanged heavy gunfire early this morning,
and a number of people managed to flee the Taj hotel, the roof of which was
burned to a cinder after heavy fires raged through the night.

"People who were held up there [Taj hotel], they have all been rescued," Roy
told the NDTV news channel. "But there are guests in the rooms, we don't know
how many."

He said some people were still apparently being held hostage at the Oberoi
hotel.

"That is why the operation is being conducted more sensitively to ensure there
are no casualties of innocent people."At noon local time (6.30am GMT), two
bodies covered with white sheets were wheeled out of the Taj entrance and put in
ambulances. Earlier in the night a series of explosions had rocked the building.
At the nearby Oberoi hotel, soldiers could be seen on the roof of neighboring
buildings. A banner hanging out of one window read "Save us".

"We did not know anything, we just heard gun shots. It was a long night for us,"
said Nasim Desai, a South African visiting her family in India.

Indian television reported that a Singaporean woman had called her embassy and
asked Indian security forces not to attack the Oberoi or the terrorists would
kill her.Officials at Bombay hospital, speaking on condition of anonymity, said
a Japanese man had died there and nine Europeans had been admitted, three of
them in critical condition with gunshot wounds. All had come from the Taj Mahal,
the officials said.Terrorist gunmen also seized the Mumbai headquarters of the
ultra-orthodox Jewish outreach group Chabad Lubavitch. Indian commandos had
surrounded the building this morning and witnesses said gunfire could be heard
from the building.

A spokesman for the Lubavitch movement in New York, Rabbi Zalman Shmotkin, said
attackers "stormed the Chabad house" in Mumbai.

"It seems that the terrorists commandeered a police vehicle which allowed them
easy access to the area of the Chabad house and threw a grenade at a gas pump
nearby," he said.

The home secretary for Maharashtra state, Bipin Shrimali, said four suspects had
been killed in two incidents in Mumbai when they tried to flee in cars, while
four more gunmen were reported killed at the Taj Mahal. Officials said nine more
had been arrested, giving no further details.

The motive for the onslaught was not immediately clear, but Mumbai has
frequently been targeted in terrorist attacks blamed on Islamist militants,
including a series of bombings in July 2006 that killed 187 people.An Indian
media report said a previously unknown group calling itself the Deccan
Mujahideen had claimed responsibility for the attacks in e-mails to several
media outlets. There was no way to verify that claim.

Mumbai was today turned into a ghost town, with the normally chaotic and crowded
streets eerily still. The only movement was by police, army and commando units
making their way through labyrinthine back alleys. The state government ordered
schools and colleges and the Bombay Stock Exchange to close for the day."We
blame the intelligence - the government spends so much money and nothing
happens. Then these people come and do whatever they want," said one local
resident, Richard Madhavan, 34. Many Mumbai residents have experienced violence
before, either in the form of occasional gunfights between mobsters and police,
or bombings. But no one was prepared for the running gun battles or the
coordinated execution of last night's violence."Bombay's streets are used to
violence," said Dinesh Bhandari, 41. "Tomorrow we'll be back to work." * The
Foreign Office has advised those concerned about their British friends and
relatives to call +44 (0)20 700 800 00

LOAD-DATE: November 27, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


      Copyright  2008  Guardian Unlimited (© Guardian Newspapers Limited)
                              All rights reserved

                              32 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                  Guardian.com

                               November 27, 2008

Mumbai attacks: domestic Indian terrorism with a global twist

LENGTH: 441 words


The claim of responsibility came from a group no one had heard of before, the
Deccan Mujahideen. The Deccan plateau is a huge area of central and southern
India, and mujahideen is the Arab word for Islamic holy warriors.

The name suggests a domestic agenda with foreign inspiration. The claim may of
course be bogus, or the name could be a cover for another group, but it looks a
fair guess at this very early stage that this represents home-grown terrorism
with an imported twist.

India is one of the principal targets of terrorism. According to the US state
department, 2,300 people died in terrorist attacks in the country during the
course of 2007. There are Maoist groups in the east and centre and nationalists
in the north east.

In this case, it looks like Islamist extremism. Mumbai has been a particular
target over the years. More than 250 people were killed there in a series of 13
bomb blasts in 1993, blamed on Muslim militants. And two years ago, more than
200 people were killed by bomb attacks on trains and railway stations. The
police charged about 30 suspects belonging to a Pakistan-based group called
Lashkar-i-Taiba and a northern group called Students Islamic Moveemnt of India.

The violence is fuelled by longstanding ethnic tension, that was inflamed by
riots in Gujarat State near Mumbai six years ago in which nearly 2,000 people,
most of them Muslims, were killed. The most serious attacks followed those
riots.

On the other hand, there is clearly something different about this attack. It
has relied not on bombs, but instead on a coordinated assault by men with rifles
who seem to have arrived at some of their targets by boat. They appear to be on
a suicide mission. In at least one instance they singled out Britons and
Americans, and one of their targets was a Orthodox Jewish centre. So clearly
there is outside influence on the strategy and ideology involved.

It is too early to say whether there is an al-Qaida connection, and such links
can take many forms, from active training and assistance in planning and
logistics, to simple internet inspiration.

What is likely is that the attacks will get blamed on Pakistan and its
Inter-Services Intelligence agency (ISI), as previous Islamic attacks have been.
US counter-terrorism officials believe that some ISI members played a role in an
attack earlier this year on the Indian embassy in Afghanistan.

This attack is the latest of many outrages that have their roots in recent
Indian history, but the targeting of westerners suggest that this tradition
violence is becoming globalised, intertwined with a brand of violent extremism,
emanating from Pakistan and Afghanistan.

LOAD-DATE: November 27, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


      Copyright  2008  Guardian Unlimited (© Guardian Newspapers Limited)
                              All rights reserved

                              33 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                  Guardian.com

                               November 27, 2008

Cricketers' safety is paramount amid fallout of Mumbai terror attacks

LENGTH: 1065 words


The Foreign Office advice about India warns today that particular caution should
be shown in areas frequented by tourists. There were worse places therefore than
the east coast city of Bhubaneshwar for England's cricketers to go to ground. It
is a surprisingly well-ordered city with a strong sense of civic pride, but
foreign tourism is not its strong point.

The majority of England's players were too exhausted on Wednesday night,
following defeat against India, to search out information about the Mumbai
atrocities, which reports suggest have left more than 100 people dead and 250
injured.

Those who left their phones on were awoken by worried relatives watching news
reports back in the UK, and encouraging them to return home. For most, however,
it was only when they awoke in the five-star Mayfair Hotel the next morning, and
for once turned to the news channels rather than the sport, that the full horror
became apparent.

England's cricketers live with the threat of terrorism, and are surrounded by
security to a suffocating degree, but the deliberate targeting of affluent
Western tourists has made this atrocity more disturbing to them than the
political assassinations, or random explosions, that had unsettled them in the
past. The sense that they could be targeted is stronger this time.

The Taj Hotel in Mumbai has housed England teams for a generation and more,
lulling them into a sense of security with its genteel colonial splendour. It
serves a restorative purpose, an escape from the bedlam that takes place
incessantly outside its doors; that sense of retreat has now been utterly
destroyed. A braver England cricketer might get as far as Leopolds bar, just
down the road. The Brabourne Stadium, venue for the first Test, is in a mass of
narrow streets less than a mile away.

The England squad held an emergency meeting at the Mayfair Hotel by mid-morning.
Reg Dickinson, their security adviser, briefed them on the situation. The Indian
board was quickly advised that England had "serious reservations'' about
continuing the tour and it was agreed that, although the one-day series should
be abandoned, the two Tests that follow should be examined in detail in the next
24 hours. But the announcement by Lalit Modi today that the Champions League
Twenty20 has been postponed surely suggests that the Test series must be
cancelled too. The Champions League Twenty20 final was due to be played on
December 10 - how can the England players now be expected to play in a match,
the first Test, which is scheduled to start around 12 hours later?

England will discuss the matter with "expert sources''. The players will be
pressurised down mobile phone lines by inexpert sources, who have seen the TV
and imagine that the whole of India is ablaze.

The decision to call off the rest of the one-day series was inevitable. It was
not just the forlorn mood of an England side 5-0 down with two to play. They had
been due to take a special charter flight to Guwahati, on the southern bank of
the Brahmaputra river, by lunchtime, but they have been griping about it since
the tour itinerary was released.

That attitude hardened when about 80 people were killed and nearly 400 injured
in serial blasts in Guwahati at the end of October, blasts attributed to Islamic
terrorism. Kevin Pietersen, England's captain, tried to suggest after a match
affected by bad light in Kanpur that Guwahati should be dropped because "it goes
dark by 3.30[pm]''. Amazingly, the Indian board resisted pressure to shift the
match to Mohali.

The England team did not travel to Guwahati, but the speed of their decision was
such that some supporters had to catch their early-morning flights regardless.
Among them were the Patel family - father, mother and fiancée of Samit, the
England all-rounder on his first tour. They have loyally trekked around India
from the outset, independently coping with a harsh itinerary that others have
avoided. Ronnie Patel has mixed emotional highs with an occasional wish to be
back in his Nottingham newsagents. That feeling will have been at its strongest
when he touched down in Guwahati and heard the news.

The immediate reaction of many England players has been that the whole tour
should be abandoned. A tour not scheduled to get them back to England until
Christmas Eve has its family tensions. The fact that the Mumbai terrorism was
not just a brief, solitary explosion, but was heading towards its second day has
made that feeling even more entrenched.

But second thoughts always complicate things. If India is unsafe now, will it be
any less unsafe when an England player is offered a huge pay-day to play in the
Indian Premier League? How can they square that? And as much as the ECB does
regard players' safety as paramount, what is an acceptable risk especially when
cricketing relations between England and India are at a delicate stage? A few -
not many - may even concur that to flee from Islamic terrorism is not a moral
option. These thoughts will stray into the minds of players and officials alike.

That England will not travel to Mumbai for the pre-Christmas Test is surely
inevitable. The Foreign Office advice has stiffened. "We advise against all
non-essential travel to Mumbai until further notice. If you are currently in
Mumbai we advise you to stay indoors and monitor the media.'' Their advice to
England will have been to avoid Mumbai until more is known.

But Ahmedabad, too, the venue for the first Test, suffered from terrorist
explosions in July. Bangalore, floated already as an alternative venue, was
bombed in August. Bombs in India are now a fact of life - yet so far India,
unlike Pakistan, has retained the loyalty of its cricketing opponents.

On the journey from Bhubaneshwar to Cuttack, venue for the fifth ODI, the dual
carriageway crossed several broad river deltas. Orissa survives primarily on
agriculture, providing 10% of India's rice production. Cows and wading birds
wander across irrigated fields and it is all rather pretty.

I made that journey yesterday. Suddenly there was a blaring of horns and a
cavalcade of police and army in a hotch-potch of vehicles came flying past.
Somewhere in the middle was the England coach. The chance for quiet
contemplation was sucked away, replaced by the din of high security. It struck
me not for the first time that this generation of England cricketers will never
see the true nature of India.

LOAD-DATE: November 27, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


      Copyright  2008  Guardian Unlimited (© Guardian Newspapers Limited)
                              All rights reserved

                              34 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                  Guardian.com

                               November 27, 2008

Timeline of terror attacks on the sub-continent

LENGTH: 238 words


1984 England's tour of India goes ahead, despite the assassinations of Indira
Ghandi, the Indian prime minister, and Sir Percy Norris, the British high
commissioner of western India, and the subsequent rioting that engulfed the
country

1987 New Zealand call off their tour of Sri Lanka after a blast killed 100
people in Colombo

1993 A suicide bomber's assassination of a Sri Lankan navy officer outside New
Zealand's Colombo hotel leads them to abandon their tour

1996 West Indies and Sri Lanka forfeit their group games against Sri Lanka at
the World Cup rather than play in Colombo, which had been shook by Tamil Tiger
bombs a fortnight earlier

2001 West Indies and New Zealand cancel tours of Pakistan after the September 11
attacks

2002 A suicide bomber kills 11 people and shatters the window of the New Zealand
team's hotel in Karachi three hours before the start of the second Test. The New
Zealand side immediately fly home, cancelling the tour

2005 England play their third ODI in Karachi despite a car bomb killing three
people in a KFC restaurant across the street from their planned hotel a month
earlier

2008 Australia refuse to tour Pakistan because of security concerns, these
concerns also lead to the ICC's Champions Trophy being postponed for a year

2008 Cricket Australia commissions an urgent review of the security situation in
India after five synchronised bombs in New Delhi killed 20 people. The tour goes
ahead

LOAD-DATE: November 27, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


      Copyright  2008  Guardian Unlimited (© Guardian Newspapers Limited)
                              All rights reserved

                              35 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                  Guardian.com

                               November 27, 2008

Mumbai terror attacks: travel advice

LENGTH: 527 words


Tour operators to India are currently diverting travellers away from Mumbai and
repatriating those caught up in the terrorist attacks last night, which targeted
British and American nationals. The two hotels that were attacked - the Taj
Mahal Palace and the Oberoi Trident - are popular with tourist and businesses
travellers to the city.

Cox & Kings, the India specialist tour operator which takes around 3,000 clients
to the country each year, reported that two of its clients, a British couple,
were staying in the Taj Mahal Palace Hotel in Mumbai when the terrorist attacks
took place. The couple were evacuated this morning, and their repatriation to
the UK is being organised by the British High Commission.

Cox & Kings director Philip Hamilton-Grierson, said: "The British Foreign &
Commonwealth Office (FCO) is now advising against all non-essential travel to
Mumbai and we will be contacting all affected clients - a relatively low number
- to discuss alternative arrangements."

Because of the FCO advisory, clients who are due to fly in to Mumbai in the next
week are being re-routed to other airports in India, and those that have it on
their tour itinerary will be offered alternative destinations by tour operators.

"Mumbai is not one of the major tourist centres in India and although some of
our clients pass through Mumbai en route to other destinations, relatively few
actually stay in the city," said Hamilton-Grierson. "I don't see it as an attack
on tourism - there are more obvious cities to target - more an attack on western
businesses and values."

Some 734,000 British tourists visit India every year according to the Bureau of
Immigration, and Mumbai is a major gateway to the country, being a popular
stop-over en route to the beaches of Goa or Kerala's backwaters. As the economic
powerhouse of the nation, it is seen more as a business travel destination.

But Tim Durham, managing director of tailor-made India specialists Colours of
India, said that Mumbai - India's largest city with a population of 13 million -
has become increasingly popular with travellers because of its glamorous
connections with Bollywood, the music and fashion industries.

Tom Marchant, managing director of independent travel operator Black Tomato,
which sends around 100 people to India every year, said: "We are reviewing India
as a whole and talking with our guys on the ground at the moment to determine
the level of risk. The significant difference this time (to previous terrorist
activity out there) has been the active targeting of luxury properties and
westerners and we need to get comfort that this risk will not pervade throughout
the country."

The FCO advisory warns of a "high threat of terrorism throughout India. Attacks
have targeted public places ... They have also targeted places frequented by
expatriates and foreign travellers, most recently in Delhi, Ahmedabad and
Bangalore."

There have been eight bomb attacks in Indian cities this year, and in 2006,
there were a series of explosions on commuter trains in western Mumbai in which
more than 180 people died and many hundreds were injured.

* For up-to-date travel advise check the FCO website

LOAD-DATE: November 27, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


      Copyright  2008  Guardian Unlimited (© Guardian Newspapers Limited)
                              All rights reserved

                              36 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                  Guardian.com

                               November 27, 2008

How Twitter and Flickr recorded the Mumbai terror attacks

LENGTH: 420 words


The effectiveness of the web showed itself once more with the terrorist attacks
in Mumbai - with the photo-sharing site Flickr and the microblogging system
Twitter both providing a kaleidoscope of what was going on within minutes of the
attacks beginning.

As India's financial capital, Mumbai is home to a number of the country's most
computer-literate users - who have been quick to adopt the microblogging format
of Twitter, which limits messages to a text message-length 140 characters.

Flickr was soon host to a set of photos from Vinukumar Ranganathan, who grabbed
his camera and headed out into the street; his set of pictures taken on the
night contained 112 photos with dramatic scenes of the aftermaths the attacks in
the district of Colaba.

Twitter meanwhile provided a constant stream of information through its search
function, allied to the use of tags - #mumbai being the favourite as the
situation developed. The first notes of the attacks came from Indian users of
Twitter (though the site's search facility doesn't go far back enough to show
them).

In fact the Indian government became so concerned about the amount of
information being spread through Twitter that it asked for the site to be
temporarily blocked.

A Google Maps page and Wikipedia page were quickly set up - but what they
couldn't tell people was whether their loved ones were safe.

For that, conventional systems still seem to be the robust ones. But the
strength of Twitter for passing on details of what's happening (if not for
echoing it, which only added to the noise) may carry important lessons for
larger organisations trying to keep track of widely-spaced emergencies. Twitter
is, in essence, a text-messaging facility; it's been used to great effect with
natural disasters such as fires. The means that wherever there's a phone,
there's the same utility.

Which only makes it a pity that Twitter is still struggling to find a commercial
model that would let it be broadcast to those who want it via text message.
After withdrawing its text message broadcast service in the UK (though you can
still text updates to it), it has now done the same in Canada. As it starts to
look like an increasingly useful system (because text messages don't need as
much bandwidth as a voice call, and so can better survive the failure of parts
of the mobile network; and 'tweets' can be sent via text message. But if you
can't receive those messages, the network's usefulness falls.

(Related: Jessica Reed rounds up citizen journalism on the Mumbai attacks.)

LOAD-DATE: November 27, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


      Copyright  2008  Guardian Unlimited (© Guardian Newspapers Limited)
                              All rights reserved

                              37 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                  Guardian.com

                               November 27, 2008

Gordon Brown condemns Mumbai terror attacks

LENGTH: 742 words


Gordon Brown said the world had responded with "shock and outrage" to the
terrorist attacks in Mumbai.

Speaking after visiting staff at a Foreign Office emergency response centre, the
prime minister promised that the government would do everything possible to help
the Indian authorities deal with the crisis.

He also said that the government's emergency Cobra committee had met to discuss
the attacks.

"We will do whatever is necessary to protect British citizens and ensure the
world is a safer place," Brown said.

"This is a horrific incident which has shocked and outraged people around the
world; this is the loss of innocent lives, people just going about their daily
business. We've got to do everything we can now to help the Indian authorities."

Brown, who was speaking before the death of a Briton in the attacks had been
confirmed, said: "There are obviously British casualties and the high
commissioner is visiting those people who are injured in the hospitals of
Mumbai. It is clear that a lot of people are also caught up in the hotel and we
must make sure that they are safe."

He went on: "Our determination is to make sure that those people who are caught
up are safe, that those people who are injured are taken care of.

"Whatever information we can give, we will give at the appropriate moment when
we have all the information to hand."

He added: "I have already sent my sympathy and support to Prime Minister
[Manmohan] Singh of India and said we will do everything we can to help the
Indian government.

"Our first duty is towards British citizens who are caught up in this. The high
commissioner has gone from Delhi to visit all those who are injured in
hospitals.

"What I can assure you is that we are doing everything in our power. We have
opened a crisis centre in the Foreign Office where British citizens can call
in."

Brown said the centre, which he had visited, had already had 800 calls.

"Our second responsibility is obviously to root out terrorism and help the
Indian government with their action and that is why, at the same time as giving
support to the Indian prime minister, we are sending police emergency teams that
are well versed in dealing with terrorism and we will try to give all the
support we can through British police and security officials.

"That's in addition to the expert staff who have been sent out to help British
nationals."

He said that Cobra had met twice in the immediate wake of the incident and that
he was "in touch with a number of world leaders".

"In time we will assess which group has been responsible - we don't have all the
details - and what the implications are for the rest of the world."

David Cameron, the Conservative leader, said: "These are absolutely horrific
attacks and the pictures on our television screens are dreadful and our sympathy
must be with the victims, of course, but also our support for the Indian
government at this time.

"And we must stand together absolutely steadfast, saying these terrorists will
never win.

"They want to separate countries like Britain and India and we should be saying
our trade, our tourism, everything we do together, our relationship together,
will get stronger and we will stand together and defeat these terrorists."

The Liberal Democrat leader, Nick Clegg, said: "Our immediate thoughts are with
those families who are worried about their loved ones. Everything must be done
to help them at this difficult time.

"When violent terrorism raises its ugly head, it is crucial that the
international community stands together. India and Britain have close historical
ties which should rightly prompt a signal of strong support from Britain to the
Indian government."

David Miliband, the foreign secretary, said the attacks were reminder of the
threat posed by violent extremists

"I condemn these attacks unreservedly. Our thoughts are with the families and
friends of those killed and injured," Miliband said.

"The UK and India will continue their joint efforts to counter the actions of
terrorists."

The attacks have also been strongly condemned by the Muslim Council of Britain.

The organisation's secretary general, Muhammad Abdul Bari, said: "I condemn this
heinous act and extend my sympathies and condolences to the bereaved. Many
Britons have deep links with the city of Mumbai and India and I join them in
this hour of sadness and anxiety."

The Foreign Office has set up an emergency number for people worried about
friends or relatives. It is 020 7008 0000.

LOAD-DATE: November 27, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


      Copyright  2008  Guardian Unlimited (© Guardian Newspapers Limited)
                              All rights reserved

                              38 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                  Guardian.com

                               November 27, 2008

Gordon Brown condemns Mumbai terror attacks

LENGTH: 337 words


Gordon Brown has condemned the terrorist attacks in Mumbai and promised that
Britain will offer "all necessary help" to the Indian government.

"These outrageous attacks in Mumbai will be met with a vigorous response," the
prime minister said in a statement.

"I have sent a message to Prime Minister Singh that the UK stands solidly with
his government as they respond, and to offer all necessary help. Urgent action
is underway to offer every possible protection to British citizens in the
region."

David Cameron, the Conservative leader, said he "utterly condemned" the attacks
and the "terrible loss of life" that had occurred.

"My thoughts are with all those who have been caught up in these attacks. India
and Britain stand together at this time in the face of terrorism," he said.

The Liberal Democrat leader, Nick Clegg, said: "Our immediate thoughts are with
those families who are worried about their loved ones. Everything must be done
to help them at this difficult time.

"When violent terrorism raises its ugly head, it is crucial that the
international community stands together. India and Britain have close historical
ties which should rightly prompt a signal of strong support from Britain to the
Indian government."

David Miliband, the foreign secretary, said the attacks were reminder of the
threat posed by violent extremists

"I condemn these attacks unreservedly. Our thoughts are with the families and
friends of those killed and injured," Miliband said.

"The UK and India will continue their joint efforts to counter the actions of
terrorists."

The attacks have also been strongly condemned by the Muslim Council of Britain.

The organisation's secretary general, Dr Muhammad Abdul Bari, said: "I condemn
this heinous act and extend my sympathies and condolences to the bereaved.

"Many Britons have deep links with the city of Mumbai and India and I join them
in this hour of sadness and anxiety."

The Foreign Office has set up an emergency number for people worried about
friends or relatives. It is 020 7008 0000.

LOAD-DATE: November 27, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


      Copyright  2008  Guardian Unlimited (© Guardian Newspapers Limited)
                              All rights reserved

                              39 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                          The Guardian - Final Edition

                           November 27, 2008 Thursday

Front: Indian terror attacks: My friend said to me 'don't be a hero, don't say
you're British': Hotel guests tell of chaos amid flames as terrorists attack

BYLINE: Thomas Bruce, Mumbai and Ben Quinn

SECTION: GUARDIAN HOME PAGES; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 872 words


Survivors of the coordinated terror attacks in India's financial capital Mumbai
told yesterday how they fled as gunmen opened fire at sites where local people
and tourists were gathered.

A British MEP saw a man open fire in the lobby of the Taj Mahal hotel, where he
and other European politicians were staying ahead of an EU-India summit. "All I
saw was one man on foot carrying a machine-gun type of weapon - which I then saw
him firing from and I saw people hitting the floor, people right next to me,"
said Sajjad Karim, MEP for the north-west of England. "I was in the lobby of the
hotel when gunmen came in and people started running. There were about 25 or 30
of us," said the Tory MEP, speaking by mobile phone from a barricaded basement
room. "Some of us split one way and some another. A gunman just stood there
spraying bullets around, right next to me.

"I managed to turn away and I ran into the hotel kitchen and then we were
shunted into a restaurant in the basement of the hotel. We are now in the dark
in this room and we've barricaded all the doors. It's really bad."

Guests at the hotel, including Britons, were moved from one place to another
amid confusion as at least one explosion rocked the building after the initial
gun attacks. The 105-year-old, 600-room waterfront hotel, described as one of
Mumbai's architectural marvels, was to have been the base for the England
cricket team next month after a previous stay two weeks ago.

The string of attacks is thought to have started at around 10pm local time. At
the Oberoi Trident hotel, a British man working in Mumbai described how the
gunmen burst into the hotel's Kandahar restaurant, where they rounded up diners.

Alex Chamberlain, who works for the Indian Premier League website, said: "A guy
burst in with a machine gun. He was in western dress wearing jeans and he asked
for British and American tourists.

"They told everybody to stop and put their hands up and asked if there were any
British or Americans. My friend said to me, 'don't be a hero, don't say you are
British'. I am sure that is what this is all about," he told Sky News.

He said that he and another man managed to escaped through a fire exit and
stumbled through the smoke that filled the hotel.

They made their way to the lobby and emerged outside to find fire engines and 20
armed policemen "looking as scared as we were".

Another British businessman, Colin Tungate, was in a lift which reached the
hotel lobby amid the gunfire. "We took the lift to the lobby and heard bangs as
the door opened. A Japanese man in the lift, was shot and wounded at that
precise moment. I frantically pressed the 'close door' button but had to move
the shot man's foot for the doors to close," he said. Tungate and his colleagues
were told by staff to head for another part of the hotel where they waited for
an hour before being escorted from the hotel.

Another guest fleeing from the Oberoi hotel was Mangho Kripalni, 84, who moved
from India to New York as a young man and was taking his two daughters and
granddaughter to India for the first time.

"It was sheer panic. I was in my room, lying down, when I heard loud explosions.
I thought it was fireworks, but soon realised something was wrong and that there
was gunshots too. I got on my bathrobe and went outside the room," he told the
Guardian. "I just came here to show my family India but now I don't know why I
did that." His daughters were still inside the hotel, he said.

Meanwhile a separate attack was launched at the Cafe Leopold, a popular tourist
restaurant nearby. Sourav Mishra, a Reuters reporter, was at the cafe when
gunmen opened fire. "I was with my friends. Something hit me. I ran away and
fell on the road. Then somebody picked me up. I have injuries below my
shoulder," he said later from a hospital bed he was sharing with three other
people.

Elsewhere, police battled gunmen at the Chhatrapati Shivaji railway station,
where grenades were thrown and at least 10 people were said to have been killed.

Police also said that at least three people were killed in a bomb explosion in a
taxi on Mazegaon dockyard road, while firing was reported at the Cama hospital
in south Mumbai.

As the fighting raged, hotel guests who had barricaded themselves inside rooms
attempted to contact those on the outside.

Another Tory MEP, Said Kamal, told the Guardian that he had left the Taj hotel
earlier to go out for dinner and had received a call from a colleague warning
him not to return.

"It seems like these attacks were deliberately targeting locations where
foreigners were staying," said Kamal, who added that a Hungarian working with
the MEPs was among the injured. "I've been receiving texts from a German MEP who
told me that she is hiding in one of the hotel kitchens. She just said 'it's
dangerous and I'm in hiding'."

Indian television later showed pictures of the lobbies of both the Taj and the
Oberoi Trident hotels on fire, and of people being evacuated from the Oberoi
with their hands on their heads. Some of the injured were evacuated from the Taj
on luggage carts. Early this morning, as the army moved in to take control,
gunmen were continuing to hold out in the two hotels and the Cama hospital, and
were said to be holding hostages.

LOAD-DATE: November 27, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2008 Guardian Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              40 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                          The Guardian - Final Edition

                           November 27, 2008 Thursday

Front: Indian terror attacks: 'I got shot and thrown to ground': Stream of
injured: Hospitals packed

BYLINE: Thomas Bruce, Mumbai

SECTION: GUARDIAN HOME PAGES; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 285 words


Mumbai's two main hospitals were overwhelmed last night as victims from
yesterday's attacks flooded the emergency wards.

At Guru Tejpal hospital, a woman lay in the corridor waiting for treatment and
passing in and out of consciousness. She had a bullet wound to her leg and was
covered in blood. She was unaware that her dead baby daughter lay next to her.

At Jamshedjee Jeejebhoy hospital, the injured tried to get treatment as anxious
relatives thronged the wards, searching for loved ones.

"I was at Chhatrapati Shivaji station and the terrorists started shooting," said
Manthan Mehta, a 35-year-old office worker.

"I got shot in the arm and got thrown to the ground. The next thing I am aware
of is being in this hospital. I am more worried about my daughter, who was with
me on the platform. I lost her when treatment arrived."

At least 20 travellers on local trains were injured in the crossfire during

the gun attack at the station. Survivors said they had been waiting for a train
on platform 13 to the city's northern suburbs when gunmen started firing,
apparently at random.

Both hospitals struggled to cope with the stream of seriously injured people.
Victims of the blast at the

city's Marriott hotel were taken to Cooper hospital in Vile Parle, in the Mumbai
suburbs. Boards outside all hospital wards asked for citizens to donate blood.

"So far we have had 30 seriously wounded people," said a casualty

doctor at JJ hospital ."Two are dead, but we are expecting many more."

A doctor at Guru Tejpal hospital said the building was not equipped for so many
wounded, and that they had already run out of beds.

As ambulances continued to arrive through the night it was unclear where the
injured would be treated.

LOAD-DATE: November 27, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2008 Guardian Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              41 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                          The Guardian - Final Edition

                           November 27, 2008 Thursday

Front: Indian terror attacks: Suspects: Coordinated shootings point to shadowy
Islamist group linked to earlier bombings

BYLINE: Gethin Chamberlain

SECTION: GUARDIAN HOME PAGES; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 619 words


With India in the grip of a wave of terrorist attacks that have claimed more
than 200 lives this year, it was only a question of when, rather than if, Mumbai
would be hit.

Despite claims by India's security forces to have rounded up many of those
involved in the bombings that struck Delhi in September, there appeared to be
little national confidence that the killings were at an end.

As recently as Sunday, Manmohan

Singh, India's prime minister, when announcing the formation of a taskforce to
tackle terrorism, warned of the scale of the threat facing the country.

"I only wish to emphasise here that time is not on our side," he said. "We
cannot afford a repetition of the kind of terrorist attacks that have recently
taken place in Delhi, Hyderabad, Bangalore, Mumbai, Ahmedabad, Surat, Guwahati
and some other urban centres."

Although yesterday's killings involved gunmen rather than bombs, the degree of
coordination involved pointed to the same hand at work.

Last night a previously unknown group calling itself the Deccan Mujahideen
claimed responsibility for the attack, but the Indian authorities are likely to
investigate the possible involvement of another faction, the Indian Mujahideen,
itself an offshoot of the banned Students Islamic Movement of India (Simi).

It claimed responsibility for the bombings in Delhi, Bangalore, Jaipur and
Ahmedabad, and after the Delhi bombings it had said that Mumbai would be next.

In an email it accused the city's

anti-terrorism squad of harassing Muslims. "You should know that your acts are
not at all left unnoticed; rather we are closely keeping an eye on you and just
waiting for the proper time to execute your bloodshed," it said. "You are
already on our hit list and this time very, very seriously."

One name that will be at the forefront of the investigators' minds is Abdul
Subhan Qureshi, also known as Tauqeer, a Mumbai-educated member of the Indian
Mujahideen credited with masterminding several attacks.

Reports from India's intelligence agencies claim he has been able to use his
expertise as a computer engineer to stay one step ahead of his pursuers and to
coordinate attacks.

His name also cropped up in the an investigation into a series of bombings in
Assam, in the north-east of the country, with intelligence agencies claiming to
have intercepted several congratulatory emails. He first came to the attention
of the authorities after the 2006 train bombings in Mumbai in 2006 and was
suspected of involvement in the Ahmedabad and Delhi attacks

Statistics from India's home ministry show that there have been 64 bomb attacks
in six months, killing more than 215 people and injuring 900.

Mumbai has been a regular target for terrorists since 1993, when 15

coordinated bomb attacks left at least 257 dead and more than 1,000 injured.

Since then there have been a string of major attacks, including a wave of
bombings on the city's western railway line, which killed 200 people and injured
more than 700.

After other recent attacks, security sources suggested that Pakistan and
Bangladesh had assisted the bombers, and it seems likely that investigators
would again look at possible links with those countries in the latest attacks.

However the authorities also acknowledge the existence of a

domestic terrorist threat.

One estimate suggests that Maoist Naxalite guerrillas are active across 55% of
the country .

On Sunday Singh described the Naxalites as the "most serious internal security
threat" facing India today.

He warned a conference of the country's most senior police officers that "the
inability of intelligence

agencies and the police to obtain

pinpoint and actionable intelligence on time has enabled these outfits to carry
out some high-profile attacks."

LOAD-DATE: November 27, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2008 Guardian Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              42 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                          The Guardian - Final Edition

                           November 27, 2008 Thursday

International: Indian terror attacks: 'A gunman just stood spraying bullets':
Witnesses to wave of attacks tell of carnage caused by bombs and guns

BYLINE: Ben Quinn and agencies

SECTION: GUARDIAN INTERNATIONAL PAGES; Pg. 28

LENGTH: 748 words


Survivors of a series of coordinated terror attacks in India's financial
capital, Mumbai, told yesterday how they fled as gunmen opened fire at sites
where locals and tourists were gathered.

A British MEP saw a gunman opening fire in the lobby of Taj Mahal hotel, where
he and other European politicians were staying ahead of an EU-India summit. "All
I saw was one man on foot carrying a machine-gun type of weapon - which I then
saw him firing from and I saw people hitting the floor, people right next to
me," said Sajjad Karim, an MEP for the north-west of England.

"There were about 25 or 30 of us," said the Tory MEP, speaking by mobile phone
from a barricaded basement room. "Some of us split one way and some another. A
gunman just stood there spraying bullets around, right next to me. I managed to
turn away and I ran into the hotel kitchen and then we were shunted into a
restaurant in the basement. We are now in the dark in this room and we've
barricaded all the doors. It's really bad."

Guests at the hotel, including Britons, were moved from one place to another
amid confusion as at least one explosion rocked the building after the initial
gun attacks. The 105-year-old, 600-room waterfront hotel is said to be one of
Mumbai's architectural marvels. Located on the seafront, it was to have been the
base for the England cricket team next month after a previous stay two weeks
ago.

Two British men working in Mumbai described how the gunmen burst into the
Kandahar restaurant at another hotel, the Oberoi, and rounded up diners.

Alex Chamberlain, who works for the Indian Premier League website, said: "A guy
burst into the Kandahar with a machine gun. He was in western dress wearing
jeans and he asked for British and American tourists. They told everybody to
stop and put their hands up and asked if there were any British or Americans. My
friend said to me, 'don't be a hero, don't say you are British'. I am sure that
is what this is all about. They were talking about British and Americans
specifically."

He said that he and another man escaped through a fire exit and emerged outside
to find fire engines and 20 armed policemen "looking as scared as we were".

Rajesh Patel, who works for HSBC, added: "Three men came into the restaurant.
They were young, around 20 years old. And they started rounding up foreigners
that were eating there. They told everyone to drop their phones and to 'come
with us' and then at that point the blast happened. So we decided to run outside
but around 15 were taken, not just British and Americans but Indians as well.
The were taken up to the 20th floor but we had run outside."

One woman, who gave her name as Souad, told al-Jazeera that she had escaped an
attack on the Oberoi. "We heard no alarms, nothing. My husband opened the door
and we couldn't see outside - it was so dark with all the smoke - we couldn't
breathe. We were on the 17th floor of the hotel and we used towels to protect
ourselves and then ran and got a taxi and then we just drove as far away as we
could."

Another Tory MEP, Said Kamal, told the Guardian that he had left the same Taj
Mahal hotel earlier to go out for dinner and had received a call from a
colleague warning him not to return. "It seems like these attacks were
deliberately targeting locations where foreigners were staying," said Kamal, who
added that a Hungarian working with MEPs was among the injured. "I've been
receiving texts from a German MEP who told me that she is hiding in one of the
hotel kitchens. She just said 'it's dangerous and I'm in hiding'."

Indian television showed pictures of the lobbies of both the Taj and the Oberoi
hotels on fire, and of people being evacuated from the Oberoi with their hands
on their heads. Some of the injured were evacuated from the Taj on luggage
carts.

Police said that attacks at Chhatrapati Shivaji railway station claimed 10
lives. AK Sharma, Mumbai general railway police commissioner, said: "The
terrorists have used automatic weapons and in some places grenades have been
lobbed. The encounters are still going on and we are trying to overpower them."

There was also shooting outside the Cafe Leopold, a popular tourist restaurant.
Sourav Mishra, a Reuters reporter, was at the cafe when gunmen opened fire. "I
heard some gunshots around 9.30pm. I was with my friends. Something hit me. I
ran away and fell on the road. Then somebody picked me up. I have injuries below
my shoulder," he said from a hospital bed he was sharing with three other
people.

LOAD-DATE: November 27, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2008 Guardian Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              43 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                          The Guardian - Final Edition

                           November 27, 2008 Thursday

International: Indian terror attacks: History of attacks

SECTION: GUARDIAN INTERNATIONAL PAGES; Pg. 29

LENGTH: 258 words


March 12 1993

257 killed and more than 1,000 injured in 15 coordinated bomb attacks in Mumbai.
The attacks were seen as retaliation for earlier anti-Muslim riots that left
hundreds dead

February 14 1998

46 people killed and more than 200 injured in 13 car bombs in the city of
Coimbatore, Tamil Nadu. The attacks were blamed on "Al Umma" Islamist group

December 13 2001

Seven killed when five gunmen, one wearing a suicide vest, attacked the
parliament complex in New Delhi. The assailants all died in the attack, and four
members of the Pakistan-based Islamist group Jaish-e-Mohammed were later
convicted for their part in the plot

August 25 2003

At least 45 people killed and 150 injured when twin car bombs exploded, one near
the Taj Mahal hotel, and the other in a jewellery market near the Mumba Devi
temple in central Mumbai. No group claimed responsibility, but authorities
blamed the Kashmiri Islamist group Lashkar-e-Taiba

October 29 2005

61 killed and at least 210 injured when three bombs exploded in markets in New
Delhi two days before the Hindu festival of Diwali. A little-known Kashmiri
militant organisation, Islami Inqilabi Mahaz (Islamic Revolutionary Group)
claimed responsibility, but authorities blamed Lashkar-e-Taiba

July 11 2006

At least 200 killed and 700 injured when seven bombs exploded in crowded
commuter trains during the evening rush hour near Mumbai. Police blamed
Lashkar-e-Taiba and Students Islamic Movement of India

August 25 2007

At least 42 people killed when two bombs exploded in Hyderabad's Lumbini park
and a restaurant

LOAD-DATE: November 27, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2008 Guardian Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              44 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                          The Guardian - Final Edition

                           November 27, 2008 Thursday

International: Indian terror attacks: Suspects: Coordinated nature of shootings
points to shadowy Islamist group

BYLINE: Gethin Chamberlain

SECTION: GUARDIAN INTERNATIONAL PAGES; Pg. 29

LENGTH: 582 words


With India in the grip of a wave of terrorist attacks that have claimed more
than 200 lives already this year, it was only a question of when, rather than
if, Mumbai would be hit.

Despite claims by India's security forces to have rounded up many of those
involved in the bombings that struck Delhi in September, there appeared to be
little national confidence that the killings were at an end.

It was only on Sunday that the Indian prime minister, Manmohan Singh, announcing
the formation of a taskforce to tackle terrorism, warned of the scale of the
threat facing the country.

"I only wish to emphasise here that time is not on our side," he said. "We
cannot afford a repetition of the kind of terrorist attacks that have recently
taken place in Delhi, Hyderabad, Bangalore, Mumbai, Ahmedabad, Surat, Guwahati
and some other urban centres."

Although yesterday's killings involved gunmen rather than bombs, the degree of
coordination involved points to the same hand at work.

The most obvious suspect will be a group calling itself the Indian Mujahideen,
an offshoot of the banned Students Islamic Movement of India (SIMI). It claimed
responsibility for the bombings in Delhi, Bangalore, Jaipur and Ahmedabad, and
after the Delhi bombings it threatened that Mumbai would be next.

In an email it accused the city's anti-terrorism squad of harassing Muslims.
"You should know that your acts are not at all left unnoticed; rather we are
closely keeping an eye on you and just waiting for the proper time to execute
your bloodshed," it said. "You are already on our hit list and this time very,
very seriously."

One name that will be at the forefront of the investigators' minds is that of
Abdul Subhan Qureshi, also known as Tauqeer, a Mumbai-educated member of the
Indian Mujahideen credited with masterminding several attacks. His name also
cropped up in an investigation into bombings in Assam, with intelligence
agencies claiming to have intercepted several congratulatory emails. He first
came to the attention of the authorities after the train bombings in Mumbai in
2006 and was suspected of involvement in the Ahmedabad and Delhi attacks

Figures from India's home ministry show that there have been 64 bomb attacks in
six months, killing more than 215 people and injuring 900.

Mumbai has been a regular target for terrorists since 1993, with six major
attacks since then.

In July 2006 200 people were killed and more than 700 injured in sven bomb
attacks on the city's Western Railway line. In August 2003 46 people died in two
explosions and in March 2003 bomb blasts killed 257 people and injured about
700. In that attack the terrorists also targeted hotels, along with the Bombay
stock exchange, theatres, and a number of other sites.

After other recent attacks, security sources suggested that Pakistan and
Bangladesh had assisted the bombers and it seems likely that investigators will
again look at possible links with those countries to the latest attacks.

Following the Delhi bombs in September Muslims protested in the capital, blaming
SIMI and demanding that Pakistan abstain from involvement in terrorism in India.

The Indian authorities have acknowledged that the country has its own home-grown
terrorist problem. One estimate suggests that Maoist Naxalite guerrillas who are
fighting a long-running war that has claimed thousands of lives are active in
55% of the country. On Sunday the prime minister described the Naxalites as the
"most serious internal security threat" facing India.

LOAD-DATE: November 27, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2008 Guardian Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              45 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                          The Guardian - Final Edition

                           November 27, 2008 Thursday

National: Weak states are major threat to British security, report warns:
Ungoverned areas could be source of terror attacks: UK not ready for nuclear
expansion and pandemics

BYLINE: Richard Norton-Taylor

SECTION: GUARDIAN HOME PAGES; Pg. 23

LENGTH: 624 words


Britain faces a greater threat from the rising number of weak states than from
strong ones, and is not adequately prepared to respond to new dangers of violent
conflict, nuclear proliferation and global pandemics, a major report warns
today.

It identifies more than 20 weak or failed states which it says now outnumber
strong ones by more than two to one and have a combined population of 880
million people. They include nuclear-armed Pakistan and increasingly important
energy states such as Nigeria.

These states, and the ungoverned areas they allow to develop, could become
"jumping-off points for direct threats to the UK via terrorism or transnational
crime", the report warns.

There exists an "arc of instability stretching from the coast of west Africa,
right across the continent and up through the Persian Gulf region and into
central Asia", says the report. It was drawn up by the Commission on National
Security in the 21st Century, which is sponsored by the left-leaning thinktank
the Institute for Public Policy Research.

The list of 20 failed states is headed by Somalia, where drought and al-Qaida
influence are now compounded by the increasing threat of piracy, and includes
Ethiopia, Zimbabwe, Haiti, Bangladesh, Afghanistan, Pakistan and Nigeria.

The "huge concentration" of weak states that poses a threat to Britain's
national security is in sub-Saharan Africa, it says. "Storm clouds are
gathering, creating profound and direct challenges to UK and wider international
security, and forcing UK policymakers to go well beyond current preoccupations
with Iraq and Afghanistan."

It says "weak, corrupt, and failing states have become bigger security risks
than strong states" and will remain a highly visible feature of the security
landscape for decades to come. They are the targets of transnational criminal
networks which are expanding their drugs, arms and people trafficking
operations.

"Massive global poverty" is contributing to the problem, to which existing,
uncoordinated British policies cannot adequately respond. Britain must engage
much more positively with these countries through financial, economic and
diplomatic means, or what the report calls "non-military preventative action",
and by promoting good governance.

The IPPR says Britain should seize on Barack Obama's US election victory to
change key elements of its national security policy. While it says Iran must be
prevented from securing a nuclear weapon, confronting nuclear proliferation on a
case by case basis or relying on nuclear deterrence theory is no longer enough.
Britain should become a more energetic ally in pursuit of Obama's goal of a
nuclear weapons-free world, it says.

"Nuclear deterrence is no longer a sound basis upon which to base a long-term
security strategy and the world urgently needs rapid cuts in existing nuclear
arsenals," says the report.

It says Britain should:

* Promote a new treaty, what it calls a "global compact for infectious
diseases", and other measures to counter pandemics and bio-terrorism.

* Work with the new US administration to promote peace in Afghanistan through a
regional conference involving Iran, Russia, Pakistan and China.

* Appoint a cabinet minister with sole responsibility for "security diplomacy".

The commission is chaired by Lords Robertson and Ashdown, respectively the
former Nato secretary general and the former UN high representative in Bosnia.

Ian Kearns, the commission's deputy chair, said last night: "Given the growing
dangers associated with nuclear weapons, it is no longer safe for the world to
rely on nuclear deterrence as a matter of choice. Though delivery of the goal
will not be easy, it is time for serious-minded people to focus on the creation
of a world free of nuclear weapons."

LOAD-DATE: November 27, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2008 Guardian Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              46 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                          The Guardian - Final Edition

                           November 27, 2008 Thursday

Cricket: Mumbai terrorist attacks throw England cricket tour into doubt:
Middlesex were due to fly to targeted hotel today: Champions League may be off
amid security fears

BYLINE: Sean Ingle, James Callow and Dileep Premachandran, Bangalore

SECTION: GUARDIAN SPORT PAGES; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 778 words


England's tour of India and the Twenty20 Champions League, which was due to
feature Middlesex, are in doubt after the Mumbai hotel in which both teams had
planned to stay was bombed and occupied by terrorists as part of a series of
attacks throughout the city that left at least 80 dead yesterday.

The England cricket team have said they will not make a decision about whether
to remain on tour until they have been fully briefed by the Foreign Office, but
it is understood that the issue will be discussed at a team meeting today.

Middlesex, meanwhile, cancelled plans to fly out to Mumbai this morning and will
wait for government advice before deciding whether to travel direct on an Indian
JetAir flight to Bangalore, where the three Mumbai Twenty20 matches have been
rescheduled, tomorrow or Saturday. They are scheduled to open with a game
against the Australian team Victoria Bushrangers next Wednesday.

Middlesex were due to fly out at 10am this morning and stay at the Taj Mahal
Palace hotel, where terrorists shot at least three members of staff and took
hostages before setting fire to the structure. England had also planned to use
the hotel, where international cricket teams usually stay while on tour, during
the second Test against India next month.

The participation of the two Australian teams due to compete in the Champions
League - the other is Western Warriors - is also in doubt after Cricket
Australia decided to suspend all travel to India while it takes security advice.
Several Australian cricketers who are due to play for Indian teams in the
tournament, such as Shane Warne, Matthew Hayden and Mike Hussey, are also in
limbo, with Warne stopping in Singapore after being told to delay his journey to
Mumbai.

Middlesex's coach Toby Radford, in London, said he believed the Champions
League, a 10-day tournament with a prize of £2.5m for the winners, was in
question. "Our bags are packed but you have to say that this is very worrying,"
he said. "Our participation and the tournament itself must be in some doubt.
Personally I would rather not be anywhere near there."

Shaun Udal, the Middlesex captain, said: "What has made it particularly
disturbing is the fact that we were going to stop at the Taj Mahal Palace hotel.
If we had gone 24 hours earlier then that would be the place where we would have
been, so that's really brought it home."

The former England spinner added that Middlesex would travel to India only if
their safety can be assured. "The main thing is that people are going on a trip
out there with their families, and you just want to know that the people that go
out there will come back," he said. "If we are told it is safe to go then we
will go. We want to play, but there are more serious issues to consider.

"The phone has been ringing non-stop with the players wanting to know what is
going to happen. We don't know if it is cricket-related or not but it is an
enormous coincidence."

An individual who escaped from the hotel told NDTV 24x7, one of India's most
popular English-language channels, that two gunmen were specifically asking for
those with British and US passports.

The England team's spokesman, Andrew Walpole, said there would be consultations
with the government before any decision is made about the tour, which is
scheduled to include two more one-day internationals, the first in Guwahati on
Saturday, and two Tests, the second in Mumbai next month. "We will be guided by
the Foreign Office and will await developments," he said. "We need to get a
clearer idea of what the situation is before we react further."

An official from the Board of Control for Cricket in India said: "This has been
a terrible day for India but at the moment it's far too early to talk about
cancelling England's tour or the Champions League."

But Radford was understandably concerned last night. "We watched this unfold
ourselves and it is very worrying," he said. "We are waiting for the ECB
(England and Wales Cricket Board), the Foreign Office or the competition
organisers to tell us whether it is safe. We also have to consider whether
players and their families are happy with us travelling. Can you go somewhere
and feel safe when so many people have died just 24 hours before?"

Those worries are reflected by Cricket Australia in its instructions to players
not to travel for the time being. A spokesman said: "In circumstances like these
it always takes at least 12 hours for details to emerge, and we will review all
information available. Given the circumstances, CA has put a hold on all
CA-related travel to India."

An organisation calling itself the Deccan Mujahideen has claimed to be behind
the attacks.

Mike Selvey, page 9

LOAD-DATE: November 27, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2008 Guardian Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              47 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                                   Irish News

                           November 27, 2008 Thursday

78 die in India terror attacks

SECTION: Pg. 20

LENGTH: 103 words


At least 78 people were killed and 200 injured yesterday when gunmen opened fire
on a crowded Mumbai railway station, luxury hotels and a restaurant popular with
tourists.

Johnny Joseph, chief secretary for Maharashtra state in India, of which Mumbai
is the capital, says the death toll could rise further.

The gunmen attacked the Chhatrapati Shivaji Terminus station in southern Mumbai
and Leopold's restaurant, a Mumbai landmark, along with the Oberoi and Taj Mahal
hotels.

The motive for the attacks was not immediately clear but Mumbai has frequently
been targeted in terrorist attacks, often blamed on Muslim militants.

LOAD-DATE: November 27, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2008 The Irish News Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              48 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                              Liverpool Daily Echo

                           November 27, 2008 Thursday
                                  1ST Edition

MY UNCLE WAS SHOT DEAD IN TERROR ATTACK

BYLINE: MARY MURTAGH & CATHERINE JONES

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 386 words


A LIVERPOOL student today told how her high-ranking police officer uncle was
shot dead in the Mumbai massacre.

Bhoopali Kaduskar was due to fly home to India for her father's funeral when she
learned about the terrorist attacks.

The 26-year-old, from Minster Court, on the edge of Liverpool city centre, found
out about her uncle's death in a 3am phone call.

Miss Kaduskar, who spent two years studying for her MBA at Liverpool university,
said: "Everyone back home is just shocked. I never thought anything like this
could ever happen in India. I just can't believe it.

"I have lots of family in Mumbai including my grandparents and fiance.

"They are OK but my aunt called in the early hours and told me my uncle, who was
a very senior officer, was dead.

"There is some confusion over what happened but I've been told that 18 police
officers have been killed and he was one of them."

Miss Kaduskar was due to board a flight from London Heathrow to Mumbai today.

She said: "I am flying via Qatar but no one knows if I will be able to land at
Mumbai.

"I am just getting on the plane and hoping I get there."

Miss Kaduskar is a friend of the Mattas family which runs Mattas international
food store in Bold Street.

Liverpool barrister Zia Chaudhry is the brother-in-law of North West MEP Sajjad
Karim who was caught up in the gun battle at the Taj Mahal hotel.

Mr Chaudhry, 39, said: "He had his telephone with him where he was in the
basement and managed to text his wife.

His battery was running out so that was one of many worries. But he let us know
he was OK.

"He was with several others hiding in the basement and it was just a question of
waiting until they were rescued. That didn't happen until midnight our time.

"It was very frightening."

Mohammed An war, a leading member of Liverpool's Muslim community, is Mr Karim's
uncle.

He said: "I had several text messages - the first was when I was driving to
Manchester last night and the last one said he was safe.

"I just kept on praying. There's a lot of relief in the family today."

Dr Shiv Pande, secretary of the British Indo Association in the north and
originally from Mumbai, said the news was "devastating".

He said: "It's completely soul-destroying. You can't describe it in any simple
way than saying it's an act against humanity."

LOAD-DATE: November 27, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


               Copyright 2008 The Liverpool Daily Post & Echo Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                              49 of 500 DOCUMENTS




                                  M2 PressWIRE

                           November 27, 2008 Thursday

NATO: The Secretary General condemns terrorist attacks in India

LENGTH: 145 words


RDATE:27112008

The Secretary General of NATO, Mr. Jaap de Hoop Scheffer said today:

"I condemn in the strongest possible terms the mindless and indiscriminate
terrorist attacks in Mumbai. Attacking innocent people, tourists, and patients
in hospitals is despicable and cowardly. On behalf of the AllianceI am relaying
the sincerest words of solidarity and sympathy to the Indian authorities, to
Indian people, and especially families of the victims. NATO, as part of the
international community, is determined to spare no effort to fight the scourge
of terrorism which should have no place in the XXIst century."

((M2 Communications Ltd disclaims all liability for information provided within
M2 PressWIRE. Data supplied by named party/parties. Further information on M2
PressWIRE can be obtained at http://www.presswire.net on the world wide web.
Inquiries to info@m2.com)).

LOAD-DATE: November 27, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSWIRE

JOURNAL-CODE: M2P


                      Copyright 2008 Normans Media Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              50 of 500 DOCUMENTS




                                  M2 PressWIRE

                           November 27, 2008 Thursday

Norwegian Government: Norway condemns terrorist attacks in India

LENGTH: 155 words


RDATE:27112008

"The Norwegian Government condemns the brutal terrorist attacks against several
targets in Mumbai in India yesterday, attacks that have claimed the life of more
than a hundre persons", Prime Minister Jens Stoltenberg says.

"Our thoughts are with the victims. Norway and India have excellent and close
relations. I have sent a personal message to the Government of India, expressing
our sympathy in this difficult situation", Prime Minister Stoltenberg says.

Prime Ministers Office, Akersgt. 42, P.O. Box 8001 Dep, 0030 Oslo, Norway

CONTACT: Prime Ministers Office, Norwegian Government Tel: +47 22 24 90 90 Fax:
+47 22 24 95 00 e-mail: postmottak@smk.dep.no

((M2 Communications Ltd disclaims all liability for information provided within
M2 PressWIRE. Data supplied by named party/parties. Further information on M2
PressWIRE can be obtained at http://www.presswire.net on the world wide web.
Inquiries to info@m2.com)).

LOAD-DATE: November 27, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSWIRE

JOURNAL-CODE: M2P


                      Copyright 2008 Normans Media Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              51 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                   Metro (UK)

                           November 27, 2008 Thursday
                                 Dublin Edition

TERRORISTS TARGET TOURISTS IN ATTACK;
80 MURDERED IN MUMBAI MASSACRE

BYLINE: PHIL SMITH

SECTION: Pg. 14

LENGTH: 335 words


AT LEAST 80 people were killed in a series of terrorist attacks apparently aimed
at tourists in Indias financial capital Mumbai last night.

At least 250 people were wounded, police said. Reports also said Westerners were
being held hostage at two five-star hotels.

A terrorist organisation calling itself the Deccan Mujahideen claimed
responsibility for the atrocities.

There was also an attack on the Cafe Leopold, perhaps the most famous city
restaurant for tourists, and at hospitals and railway stations.

I guess they were after foreigners, because they were asking for British or
American passports, said Rakesh Patel, a British witness who lives in Hong Kong
and was staying at The Taj Mahal Hotel on business. They had bombs. They came
from the restaurant and took us up the stairs young boys, maybe 20 years old, 25
years old. They had two guns. People were also evacuated from the Oberoi hotel
with their hands on their heads.

The situation is grave, Vilasrao Deshmukh, the chief minister, said. Our men are
on the job. Attackers fired machine guns indiscriminately and used grenades.
These are terrorist strikes in at least seven places, said police.

Some of the injured people were evacuated from The Taj on the hotels golden
luggage carts, while waiters in black and white formal wear and chefs were seen
leaving the Oberoi. Vehicles and street vendors barrows were used to keep locals
away as military vehicles arrived at the Cafe Leopold, while the chief of
anti-terrorism Hemant Karkare was also killed by the attackers.

Later reports stated four of the suspected terrorists were arrested and two were
shot dead on a beach.

British MEP Sajjad Karim was barricaded in a basement room. I was in the lobby
of the hotel when gunmen came in and people started running. Some of us split
one way and some another. A gunman just stood there spraying bullets around,
right next to me. I managed to turn away and I ran.We are now in the dark in
this room and weve barricaded all the doors. Its really bad, he said.

LOAD-DATE: November 27, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: A policeman helps an elderly man at a railway station. Inset: A child
has blood wiped from his face

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2008 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              52 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                PA Regional Newswire of English Regions: LONDON

                     November 27, 2008 Thursday 7:10 PM BST

DEAD BRITON HAD DESCRIBED HOTEL ATTACK TERROR

SECTION: PA Regional Newswire for English Regions

LENGTH: 347 words


As terrorists attacked Mumbai, a London yacht tycoon caught up in the panic
described the chaos: ``The hotel is shaking every time a bomb goes off.
Everybody is just living on their nerves.''

Later that night Andreas Liveras was dead.

As guests were sent to the basement for their protection when the five-star Taj
hotel was raided by terrorists, the entrepreneur spoke to the BBC about the
terrifying attacks.

The 73-year-old Cypriot-born businessman, who emigrated to London in 1963, said:
``As we sat at the table we heard the machine gun fire outside in the corridor.

``We hid under the table and then they switched all the lights off. But the
machine gun kept going, and they took us into the kitchen, and from there into a
basement, before we came up into a salon where we are now.

``There must be more than 1,000 people here. There are residents and tourists
and locals. We are not hiding, we are locked in here - nobody tells us anything,
the doors are locked and we are inside.

``Hotel staff are helping us a lot, providing water and sandwiches - but nobody
is eating really, people are frightened. At this moment it's very quiet. The
last bomb exploded about 45 minutes ago and it shook the hotel up. Nobody comes
in this room and nobody goes out, and we don't really know.

``All we know is the bombs are next door and the hotel is shaking every time a
bomb goes off. Everybody is just living on their nerves.''

Mr Liveras ran a chartered yacht company in Monaco where he advertised ``the
world's most impressive private yachts to the charter community''. In his online
biography he describes his life as a ``classic rags-to-riches tale''.

When he arrived in London he began working for a small bakery as a delivery man.
Mr Liveras later bought the bakery and transformed it into one of largest
independent manufacturers of frozen gateaux desserts in Europe. It was later
sold in an eight-figure multimillion-pound deal, allowing him to move into the
yachting business. He cites his other passion in life as flying and, as a
qualified pilot, regularly flew his own fixed-wing plane. end

LOAD-DATE: November 27, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newswire


                  Copyright 2008 The Press Association Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              53 of 500 DOCUMENTS



              PA Regional Newswire of English Regions: SOUTH EAST

                     November 27, 2008 Thursday 4:02 PM BST

BRITON FEARED DEATH IN INDIA TERROR ATTACKS

SECTION: PA Regional Newswire for English Regions

LENGTH: 145 words


A woman from Southampton caught up in the terror attacks in Mumbai, India, said
she thought she would die before she escaped from the crisis.

Lawyer Tasneem Jeevanjee, 42, had only been in the Taj Hotel for a few hours
when it was attacked.

She and other hostages were locked in a room but one person smashed a window and
they fled.

Ms Jeevanjee's mother Sara, who is from Southampton, told the Southern Daily
Echo: ``She was locked in the room with four other people by the terrorists.

``The whole room was filled with smoke and they couldn't breathe. She told us
that at that point she was minutes from death.

``But luckily one of the men managed to break a window in the room.''

The window was by a road and the five escaped.

Ms Jeevanjee was then able to text her family to tell them she was safe. But she
has suffered smoke inhalation and is in shock, her family added. end

LOAD-DATE: November 27, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newswire


                  Copyright 2008 The Press Association Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              54 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                            PA Newswire: Sport News

                     November 27, 2008 Thursday 3:16 PM BST

CHAMPIONS LEAGUE TO BE RESCHEDULED AFTER TERROR ATTACKS

BYLINE: PA Sport staff

LENGTH: 1102 words


The inaugural Champions League Twenty20 will be re-scheduled for early 2009
following the terrorist attacks which rocked Mumbai.

According to tournament chairman Lalit Modi, the eight-team event will be
rearranged and remain in India.

Middlesex, England's reigning Twenty20 champions, are among the teams taking
part in the multi-million pound extravaganza and aborted their flight to the
subcontinent this morning - they were due to stay in one of the hotels besieged
by gunmen last night.

However, Modi told Sky Sports News: ``All the teams wanted to come and start as
scheduled at an alternative venue but the Board of Control for Cricket in India
could not reschedule at such a short time as the games were due to start next
Wednesday.

``The inaugural year will be postponed for a few months but will still be played
in India.

``They (the participating teams) were all ready to come today so I don't think
they will have a problem coming back.''

The decision to postpone was taken by the tournament's governing council after
they held discussions with the BCCI, and its fellow stakeholders Cricket
Australia and Cricket South Africa.

``It was agreed that in the best interests of all concerned, the inaugural
edition of the Champions League 2020 should be postponed,'' said Modi.

``We very strongly condemn this dastardly and heinous criminal act of a few
which has resulted in the loss of precious lives and injury to hundreds.

``We offer our heartfelt condolences to the bereaved families and we are with
them in their hour of grief.''

More than 100 people were killed in the attacks, in which an unspecified number
of others were taken hostage, with Britons and Americans said to be specific
targets.

Middlesex captain Shaun Udal said: ``It's probably a sensible decision to
postpone it for now. I don't see any point carrying on with the tournament in
such circumstances.

``The atrocities are terrible and you feel for everyone involved. It was surreal
watching the pictures last night.

``I know the hotel well, England were based there. It could have been us if we
had gone 24 hours earlier. We would have been right in the thick of it. Awful,
awful stuff that has been going on.

``There was talk of switching venues but I think the correct decision has been
made.''

Teams from five countries - England, Australia, South Africa, Pakistan and India
- were due to take part in the week-long tournament from December 3-10.

Nashua Titans and Nashua Dolphins were representing South Africa while Graeme
Smith and Makhaya Ntini were due to play for Indian Premier League franchises
Rajasthan Royals and Chennai Super Kings respectively.

Tony Irish, chief executive of the South African Cricketers' Association,
commented: ``It is disappointing from a player's point of view because the
players were looking forward to testing their abilities against the best players
from domestic teams of other countries.

``It is a massive blow to everyone financially, Cricket South Africa, the
franchises and the players, but it is the correct decision to make in this
situation, because the safety and security of the teams and players is the most
important factor.''

CSA chief executive Gerald Majola added: ``It is a very sad day not just for
cricket but for everybody affected by what has occurred in Mumbai.

``It is regrettable that the governing council of the Champions League had to
take this decision but they had no choice in the circumstances. The safety of
the players is of paramount importance at all times.

``It obviously has negative financial connotations for everybody involved and it
is a huge disappointment for the franchise players from the Nashua Dolphins and
the Nashua Titans who were looking forward to the opportunity of competing on a
bigger stage.''

The Champions League was originally scheduled to take place from September
29-October 8 but was moved to December due to its close proximity to the
Champions Trophy, an event which was also later postponed.

Middlesex captain Shaun Udal believes the correct decision has been made.

Udal told Sky Sports News: ``It's probably a sensible decision to postpone it
for now. I don't see any point carrying on with the tournament in such
circumstances.''

Middlesex, the English Twenty20 champions, were due to fly to India this morning
but announced last night they would not travel and await developments.

Udal added: ``The atrocities are terrible and you feel for everyone involved. It
was surreal watching the pictures last night.

``I know the hotel well, England were based there. It could have been us if we
had gone 24 hours earlier. We would have been right in the thick of it. Awful,
awful stuff that has been going on.

``There was talk of switching venues but I think the correct decision has been
made.''

Udal now hopes the event can be rearranged at a future date.

He said: ``It was only a week's worth of cricket. I would hope very much that we
can squeeze it in because the cricket would have been fantastic.''

Teams from five countries - England, Australia, South Africa, Pakistan and India
- were due to take place in the week-long tournament from December 3-10.

Cricket Australia (CA) and Cricket South Africa (CSA) had earlier indicated they
were waiting on security reports before deciding on whether to send their teams.

The Victoria Bushrangers and Western Australia Warriors were due to represent
Australia.

``The sense in Australia is that we have put everything on hold,'' CA head of
public affairs Peter Young told Sky Sports News.

``We are pausing everything while we take stock of what has happened. We are
seeking independent advice from security advisors and government officials.
Safety first is the fundamental principal of Cricket Australia.

``We have one of our officials at BCCI premises. We have been talking to our
staff and to the state teams that are due to travel.

``What we have to remember is that there has been a significant human tragedy.''

CSA chief executive Gerald Majola also voiced his concerns with the Nashua
Titans and the Nashua Dolphins involved.

South Africa captain Graeme Smith, and paceman Makhaya Ntini, were also due to
play in the competition with Indian Premier League sides Rajasthan Royals and
Chennai Super Kings respectively.

``The safety of our players is of paramount concern to us at all times,'' Majola
said.

``I would like to express sympathy to those who have been injured or lost loved
ones in this tragic incident.''

The Champions League was originally scheduled to take place from September
29-October 8 but moved to December due to its close proximity to the ICC
Champions Trophy, an event which was also later postponed.

LOAD-DATE: November 27, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newswire


                  Copyright 2008 The Press Association Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              55 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                          Press Association Mediapoint

                     November 27, 2008 Thursday 6:58 PM BST

DEAD BRITON HAD DESCRIBED HOTEL ATTACK TERROR

BYLINE: Tom Rayner, Press Association

SECTION: HOME NEWS

LENGTH: 457 words


As terrorists attacked Mumbai, a British yacht tycoon caught up in the panic
described the chaos: ``The hotel is shaking every time a bomb goes off.
Everybody is just living on their nerves.''

Later that night Andreas Liveras was dead.

As guests were sent to the basement for their protection when the five-star Taj
hotel was raided by terrorists, the entrepreneur spoke to the BBC about the
terrifying attacks.

The 73-year-old Cypriot-born businessman, who emigrated to London in 1963, said:
``As we sat at the table we heard the machine gun fire outside in the corridor.

``We hid under the table and then they switched all the lights off. But the
machine gun kept going, and they took us into the kitchen, and from there into a
basement, before we came up into a salon where we are now.

``There must be more than 1,000 people here. There are residents and tourists
and locals. We are not hiding, we are locked in here - nobody tells us anything,
the doors are locked and we are inside.

``Hotel staff are helping us a lot, providing water and sandwiches - but nobody
is eating really, people are frightened.

``At this moment it's very quiet. The last bomb exploded about 45 minutes ago
and it shook the hotel up. Nobody comes in this room and nobody goes out, and we
don't really know.

``All we know is the bombs are next door and the hotel is shaking every time a
bomb goes off. Everybody is just living on their nerves.''

Mr Liveras ran a chartered yacht company in Monaco where he advertised ``the
world's most impressive private yachts to the charter community''.

In his online biography he describes his life as a ``classic rags-to-riches
tale''.

When he arrived in London he began working for a small bakery as a delivery man.

Mr Liveras later bought the bakery and transformed it into one of largest
independent manufacturers of frozen gateaux desserts in Europe. It was later
sold in an eight-figure multimillion-pound deal, allowing him to move into the
yachting business.

He cites his other passion in life as flying and, as a qualified pilot,
regularly flew his own fixed-wing plane.

Phaedon Anastasiou, from the Cypriot Foreign Ministry, said: ``I received a
phone call from Andreas' brother, Theopanis, who lives in Nicosia. He was
concerned and wanted news - I think he had heard reports.

``I phoned the British consulate in Mumbai and they confirmed Andreas Liveras
was dead.

``It was a hard call to tell him his brother was dead - difficult, very sad -
but I promised I would let him know his brother's condition.''

Mr Liveras was pronounced dead on arrival at St George's Hospital in the city at
9.30pm local time last night, a spokesman for the hospital said.

A post-mortem examination was being carried out on Mr Liveras at Mumbai's JJ
Hospital.

LOAD-DATE: November 28, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newswire


                  Copyright 2008 The Press Association Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              56 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                          Press Association Mediapoint

                     November 27, 2008 Thursday 2:45 AM BST

TERROR ATTACKS IN INDIA

BYLINE: Robert Dex, Press Association

SECTION: HOME NEWS

LENGTH: 337 words


More than 600 people have been killed and hundreds injured in terrorist attacks
in India in the last six years.

This is a timeline of the major terrorist attacks in the country.

Mumbai, November 26, 2008: Several killed and many more injured in seven terror
attacks targeting hotels used by foreigners and the railway station.

Assam, October 30, 2008: At least 45 killed and more than 100 injured in 18
terror bombings across Assam.

Imphal, October 21, 2008: 17 killed in a powerful blast near Manipur Police
Commando complex.

Kanpur, October 14, 2008: Eight people injured after bomb planted on a rented
bicycle went off Colonelganj market.

Malegaon, Maharashtra, September 29, 2008: Five people died after a motorbike
bomb went off in a crowded market.

Modasa, Gujarat, September 29 2008: One killed and several injured after a
motorbike bomb went off near a mosque.

New Delhi, September 27, 2008: Three people killed after a bomb was thrown in a
busy market in Mehrauli.

New Delhi, September 13, 2008: 26 people killed in six blasts across the city.

Ahmedabad, July 26, 2008: 57 people killed after more than 20 bombs went off
within less than two hours.

Bangalore, July 25, 2008: One person killed in a bomb explosion.

Jaipur, May 13, 2008: 68 people killed in bombings.

Hyderabad, August 25, 2007: 42 people killed in two blasts, at a restaurant and
a public park.

Samjhauta Express, February 19, 2007: 66 people killed after two firebombs went
off on the India-Pakistan friendship train.

Malegaon, Maharashtra, September 8, 2006: 40 people killed in two blasts.

Mumbai, July 11, 2006: 209 people killed in seven blasts on suburban trains and
stations.

Varanasi, March 7, 2006: 21 people killed in three blasts including one at a
temple and another at a railway station.

New Delhi, October 29, 2005: 61 people killed in three blasts on the eve of
Diwali.

Mumbai, August 25, 2003: 46 people killed in two blasts including one near the
Gateway of India.

Gandhinagar, September 24, 2002: 34 people killed in the attack on the
Akshardham temple.

LOAD-DATE: November 27, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newswire


                  Copyright 2008 The Press Association Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              57 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                               South Wales Argus

                           November 27, 2008 Thursday

TERROR ATTACKS: Briton killed in Mumbai massacre

BYLINE: South Wales Argus Newsdesk

SECTION: LATEST NEWS (SWA NEWS)

LENGTH: 509 words


One Briton was killed and at least seven were injured in devastating
co-ordinated attacks on Mumbai that left more than 100 dead, officials said
today.

Gunmen opened fire yesterday on a series of civilian targets in the heart of
India's financial capital, including two luxury hotels and a packed railway
station.

Violence continued for a second day as terrorists holding hostages exchanged
fire with Indian commandos.

The Foreign and Commonwealth Office (FCO) confirmed one Briton died and said
next of kin had been informed, but would not give any more details.

Sir Richard Stagg, the British High Commissioner in India, said he had seen
three or four injured Britons in hospital but admitted the total "must be
significantly more''.

Earlier he said he knew of at least seven British casualties.

Prime Minister Gordon Brown said the horrific attacks had been met by "shock and
outrage'' around the world and pledged all possible UK support for the Indian
authorities.

He went on: "This is the loss of innocent lives, people just going about their
daily business. We've got to do everything we can now to help.'' Mr Brown
revealed the Government's emergency Cobra committee met twice immediately after
the incident and said he was in touch with "a number'' of world leaders.

"In time we will assess which group has been responsible - we don't have all the
details - and what the implications are for the rest of the world,'' he said.

An FCO rapid deployment team, including two British Red Cross workers, flew to
Mumbai this morning to help Britons caught up in the attacks.

UK police and security officials with anti-terror experience also travelled to
India to support British High Commission staff, and Indian officials if
required.

Speaking from Mumbai, Sir Richard told Sky News: "It's a pretty confused
situation still.

"The crisis at the Oberoi hotel is continuing and I think the Indians have been
focusing very much on bringing the terrorist incident to a conclusion and on
getting the injured people to hospitals as quickly as possible.

"Those that I saw appeared to be being looked after well.'' A British woman who
was shot during the attacks recounted today how she held her husband as he
slipped out of consciousness.

Retired teachers Diane and Michael Murphy, from near Hexham in Northumberland,
are on holiday in India and had only been in Mumbai for one day when the
terrorists struck.

Mrs Murphy, 58, was shot in the foot and her husband, 59, took a bullet in the
ribs when the terrorists stormed the packed Leopold Cafe.

Mr Murphy needed to have his spleen removed and remains in intensive care.

His wife, who is still in hospital, recalled: "All of a sudden there was
automatic gunfire. The whole place fell apart.

"It was tremendously loud. My husband and I were hit, as were lots of people.
Everybody was down on the ground. The gunfire stopped for a few seconds then
started again.

"We had to wait - it seemed like an age - for the police to arrive.

"I stayed with my husband because I could tell he was seriously injured. He was
losing consciousness.''

LOAD-DATE: November 27, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2008 NewsQuest Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              58 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                               South Wales Argus

                           November 27, 2008 Thursday

TERROR ATTACKS: Brits tell of harrowing wait in room

BYLINE: South Wales Argus Newsdesk

SECTION: LATEST NEWS (SWA NEWS)

LENGTH: 165 words


British nationals Alistair Francis and fiancee Nicole Griffen told of their
terrifying night in Mumbai.

They were in their 15th floor bedroom of the Taj Hotel at the time of the
attack.

Mr Francis told Sky News: "We heard something - I thought it was just fireworks
or something like that.

Then about 20 minutes later we got a telephone call saying turn off the TV, turn
off the lights - there is a guy with a gun.

"I assumed it was one guy with a gun.'' The couple stayed in the room and began
to get a clearer idea of the scale of the attack via the internet.

At around 6am they heard a knock at the door and were told by security men to go
to the ground floor.

Ms Griffen said: "Unfortunately along the way we saw a couple of sites where the
terrorists had left their mark. It was very harrowing to learn how many
employees of the Taj were lost, how many policemen were then lost.

"The real saddening part is, as a tourist, you can get over something like this,
but so many lives were affected.''

LOAD-DATE: November 27, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2008 NewsQuest Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              59 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                               South Wales Argus

                           November 27, 2008 Thursday

TERROR ATTACKS: Do you know Newport survivor?

BYLINE: South Wales Argus Newsdesk

SECTION: LATEST NEWS (SWA NEWS)

LENGTH: 39 words


LET us know if you know anyone affected or if you are in Mumbai.

Contact us through the link below, or via mobile on 80360 with the message ARGUS
NEWS. Alternatively, to speak to a reporter, call newsdesk on 01633 777226.

E-mail newsdesk

LOAD-DATE: April 26, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2008 NewsQuest Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              60 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                            Stroud News and Journal

                           November 27, 2008 Thursday

JUST IN: Local woman runs for life in terrorist attacks

BYLINE: David Wiles

SECTION: NEWS (SNJ NEWS)

LENGTH: 44 words


A TOURIST from the Stroud Valleys had to run for her life during the terrorist
attacks in Mumbai yesterday.

Mo Grills, 27, was in a bar with her boyfriend Ed Mitson, 28, only minutes
before it was targeted by extremists.

Read her eye witness account in Wednesday's SNJ.

LOAD-DATE: August 23, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2008 NewsQuest Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              61 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                                Watford Observer

                           November 27, 2008 Thursday

Cricketer grounded after Mumbai terror attacks

BYLINE: Michael Pickard

SECTION: NEWS (NEWS)

LENGTH: 226 words


A county cricket player from Watford, who was due to fly today to Mumbai to
compete in the Twenty20 Champions League, has been grounded following last
night's terror attacks in the Indian city.

Gunmen targeted a number of hotels in the city last night, reportedly killing
more than 100 people and taking several hostages.

Steve Finn, a bowler for Middlesex County Cricket Club, was to fly out with
teammates this morning ahead of the start of the inaugural competition next
week.

The club, however, have postponed their flights and are now awaiting advice from
both the Foreign Office and the ECB (English Cricket Board).

The club had qualified for the tournament after winning the Twenty20 Cup and
were due to line up against the best teams across the world for the chance to
win £2.5million.

Middlesex are due to play the Victoria Bushrangers in the opening game of the
tournament at Mumbai's Brabourne Stadium, but their participation has been
thrown into doubt following the attacks.

They were also due to stay at the Taj Mahal Palace hotel, the scene of gunfire,
explosions and a reported siege.

Middlesex's Chief Executive, Vinny Codrington, said: "The situation is very
fluid and will no doubt change over the next 24 hours. Clearly the players'
safety is our top priority."

Do you have any family or friends in Mumbai? Telephone the newsdesk on 01923
216298.

LOAD-DATE: November 27, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2008 NewsQuest Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              62 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                                The Western Mail

                           November 27, 2008 Thursday
                                 Second Edition

Scores massacred in Mumbai terror attacks;
Dozens 'being held hostage' at target hotels

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 784 words


GUNMEN stormed luxury hotels, a popular restaurant, hospitals and a crowded
station in co-ordinated attacks across India's financial capital yesterday,
killing at least 78 people and taking Westerners hostage.

The attackers specifically targeted Britons and Americans, witnesses said. Fires
burned and gunfire was heard for hours. Officials said at least 200 people were
wounded.

A previously unknown group, apparently Muslim militants, reportedly said it
carried out the attacks in Mumbai.

A raging fire and explosions struck one of the hotels, the landmark Taj Mahal.
Screams could be heard and enormous clouds of black smoke rose from the
century-old edifice on Mumbai's waterfront.

Last night, government authorities said four suspects had been killed in two
incidents when they tried to flee in cars. Nine more were arrested.

The motive for the onslaught was not immediately clear, but Mumbai has
frequently been targeted in terrorist attacks blamed on Islamic extremists,
including a series of bombings in July 2007 that killed 187 people.

An Indian media report said a previously unknown group calling itself the Deccan
Mujahideen had claimed responsibility for the attacks in emails to media
outlets.

Police reported hostages being held at the Taj Mahal and Oberoi hotels, two of
the best-known upscale destinations in the crowded, wealthy city.

Gunmen who burst into the Taj "were targeting foreigners. They kept shouting,
'Who hasUSorUK passports?'," said Ashok Patel, a UK citizen who fled from the
hotel.

Authorities believed seven to 15 foreigners were prisoners at the Taj Mahal
hotel, but it was not immediately clear if hostages at the Oberoi were Indians
or foreigners, said Anees Ahmed, a top state official.

It was also unclear where the hostages were in the Taj Mahal, which is divided
into an older wing, which was in flames, andamodern tower that was not on fire.

Johnny Joseph, chief secretary for Maharashtra state, of which Mumbai is the
capital, said 78 people had been killed and 200 had been wounded.

Officials at Bombay Hospital said a Japanese man had died there and nine
Europeans had been admitted, three of them in a critical condition with gunshot
wounds.

All had come from the Taj Mahal, the officials said.

At least three top Indian police officers - including the chief of the
anti-terror squad - were among those killed, a police official said.

Blood smeared the floor of the Chhatrapati Shivaji station, where attackers
sprayed bullets into the crowded terminal.

Other gunmen attacked Leopold's restaurant, a landmark popular with foreigners,
and the police headquarters in southern Mumbai, the area where most of the
attacks took place.

The restaurant was riddled with bullet holes and there was blood on the floor
and shoes left by fleeing customers. Gunmen also attacked Cama and Albless
Hospital and GT Hospital, though it was not immediately clear if anyone was
killed.

Briton Alex Chamberlain, who was dining at the Oberoi hotel said the gunmen who
struck there singled out Britons and Americans.

He said a gunman, a young man of 22 or 23, ushered 30 or 40 people from the
restaurant into a stairway and ordered everyone to put up their hands.

"They were talking about British and Americans specifically."

Mr Chamberlain said he managed to slip away as the patrons were forced to walk
upstairs, but he thought much of the group was being held hostage.

Early this morning, several European politicians were among people who
barricaded themselves inside the Taj, a century-old seaside hotel complex and
one of the city's best-known destinations.

The Foreign Office said it was advising all British citizens in Mumbai to stay
indoors.

The Foreign Office later issued an emergency number - 020 7008 0000 - for people
concerned about friends or relatives

Brown pledges support for Indian government

GORDON BROWN last night vowed a "vigorous response" to attacks in Mumbai which
have left 78 people dead. The Prime Minister promised to back the Indian
government as it responds to the series of attacks by heavily-armed gunmen.

"These outrageous attacks in Mumbai will be met with a vigorous response," Mr
Brown said in a statement. "I have sent a message to (Indian) Prime Minister
(Manmohan) Singh that the UK stands solidly with his government as they respond,
and to offer all necessary help.

In the US, a State Department spokesman strongly condemned the attacks.

"Our sympathies go out to the families and friends of those killed and injured,
and to the people of Mumbai.

"We are monitoring the situation very closely and stand ready to support the
Indian authorities as they deal with this horrific series of attacks," he said.

LOAD-DATE: December 2, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:  AFTERMATH: The remains of a vehicle mark one of the sites of the
attacks in Mumbai last night.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                    Copyright 2008 Western Mail and Echo Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                              63 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                                The Western Mail

                           November 27, 2008 Thursday
                                 First Edition

Scores massacred in Mumbai terror attacks;
Dozens 'being held hostage' at target hotel

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 790 words


AT LEAST 78 people were killed and 200 injured yesterday when gunmen opened fire
on a crowded Mumbai railway station, luxury hotels and a restaurant popular with
tourists.

Johnny Joseph, chief secretary for Maharashtra state in India, of which Mumbai
is the capital, says the death toll could rise further.

One report also said about 40 people were being held hostage at one of the
hotels which was attacked.

The gunmen attacked the Chhatrapati Shivaji Terminus station in southern Mumbai
and Leopold's restaurant, a Mumbai landmark, along with the Oberoi and Taj Mahal
hotels.

Indian television reports said that the Mumbai area anti-terrorism chief, Hemant
Karkare, has been killed in the attacks.

Eye-witnesses caught up in the chaos said that gunmen were looking for Britons
and Americans.

The motive for the attacks was not immediately clear but Mumbai has frequently
been targeted in terror attacks, often blamed on Muslim militants, including a
series of blasts in July last year that killed 187 people.

Shivraj Patil, the Indian Minister for Home Affairs told reporters that two
terrorists had been shot and two people arrested.

Several European MEPs were among those barricaded inside the Taj, a century-old
seaside hotel complex and one of the city's best-known destinations.

Sajjad Karim, part of a delegation of MEPs visiting Mumbai ahead of a
forthcoming EU-India summit, said: "I was in the main lobby and there was all of
a sudden a lot of firing outside."

He turned to get away "and all of a sudden another gunman appeared in front of
us, carrying machine gun-type weapons. And he just started firing at us ... I
just turned and ran in the opposite direction," he said.

Hours later, he remained holed up in the hotel, unsure if the incident was over,
and whether it was safe to come out.

Tony Robinson, spokesperson for the socialist groups in the European Parliament
said that one administrator in the delegation was injured but not seriously.

"Our main concern is that everybody is safe. While there are still battles going
on I don't think suppose there is anything very practical that can be done," he
said.

Arvind Kodekar was at a wedding reception at the Taj Mahal when an explosion
rang out.

He said: "When we heard the sound of the blast, everyone - the bride, the groom,
everyone - just ran. We heard the sound of two blasts and we just ran."

At the Oberoi, police officer P I Patil said shots were fired inside and the
hotel had been cordoned off.

Mumbai General Railway Police Commissioner A K Sharma said several men armed
with rifles and grenades were holed up in the railway station.

Leopold's restaurant,aMumbai landmark, was riddled with bullet holes and there
were blood stains on the floor and shoes left by fleeing customers.

India has been wracked by deadlybombattacks in recent years, which police blame
on Muslim militants intent on destabilising the largely Hindu country.

Since October 2005, nearly 700 people have died in the bombings.

And since May a militant group calling itself the Indian Mujahideen has taken
credit for a string of blasts that have killed more than 130.

The most recent was in September when a series of explosions struck a park and
crowded shopping areas in the capital, New Delhi, killing 21 people and wounding
about 100 others.

Mumbai has been hit repeatedly by terror attacks since March 1993, when Muslim
underworld figures tied to Pakistani militants allegedly carried out a series of
bombings on Mumbai's stock exchange, trains, hotels and petrol stations.

Authorities said those attacks, which killed 257 people and wounded more than
1,100, were carried out to avenge the deaths of hundreds of Muslims in religious
riots which swept India.

The Foreign Office later issued an emergency number - 020 7008 0000 - for people
concerned about friends or relatives

Brown pledges support for Indian government

GORDON BROWN last night vowed a "vigorous response" to attacks in Mumbai which
have left 78 people dead. The Prime Minister promised to back the Indian
government as it responds to the series of attacks by heavily-armed gunmen.

"These outrageous attacks in Mumbai will be met with a vigorous response," Mr
Brown said in a statement. "I have sent a message to (Indian) Prime Minister
(Manmohan) Singh that the UK stands solidly with his government as they respond,
and to offer all necessary help.

In the US, a State Department spokesman strongly condemned the attacks.

"Our sympathies go out to the families and friends of those killed and injured,
and to the people of Mumbai.

"We are monitoring the situation very closely and stand ready to support the
Indian authorities as they deal with this horrific series of attacks," he said.

LOAD-DATE: December 2, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:  ATTACK: An injured man lies on a hotel's baggage trolley in Mumbai in
this picture from a TV report

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                    Copyright 2008 Western Mail and Echo Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                              64 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                      Western Morning News (Plymouth, UK)

                           November 27, 2008 Thursday

MEPs caught up in mumbai terror attacks;
Gordon Brown last night vowed a "vigorous response" to attacks in Mumbai which
have left 78 people dead.

SECTION: Pg. 1

LENGTH: 802 words


The Prime Minister promised to back the Indian government as it responds to the
series of attacks carried out by heavily-armed gunmen.

"These outrageous attacks in Mumbai will be met with a vigorous response," said
Mr Brown. "I have sent a message to Indian Prime Minister Manmohan Singh that
the UK stands solidly with his government as they respond, and to offer all
necessary help. Urgent action is under way to offer every possible protection to
British citizens in the region."

At least 200 people were injured when gunmen, described by police as
"terrorists", opened fire on a crowded Mumbai railway station, luxury hotels and
a restaurant popular with tourists.

Johnny Joseph, chief secretary for Maharashtra state in India, of which Mumbai
is the capital, said the death toll could rise further.

The gunmen attacked the Chhatrapati Shivaji Terminus station in southern Mumbai
and Leopold's restaurant, a Mumbai landmark, along with the Oberoi and Taj Mahal
hotels. There were unconfirmed reports of an explosion near the city's domestic
airport.

Eye-witnesses caught up in the chaos said that gunmen were looking for Britons
and Americans.

Shivraj Patil, minister for home affairs in India, told reporters that two
terrorists had been shot and two people arrested. Indian television reports also
claim that the country's anti-terrorism chief, Hemant Karkare, was killed in the
attacks.

There were also reports that Westerners had been taken hostage, although a
senior police officer denied this.

India media organisations were reporting that they had received emails from an
unknown group, the Deccan Mujahideen, claiming responsibility for the attacks.

Conservative MEP Sajjad Karim was barricaded in a basement room after he fled
from machine-gun fire in the Taj Mahal hotel. He said: "I was in the lobby of
the hotel when gunmen came in and people started running. There were about 25 or
30 of us. Some of us split one way and some another. A gunman just stood there
spraying bullets around, right next to me. I managed to turn away and I ran into
the hotel kitchen and then we were shunted into a restaurant in the basement. We
are now in the dark in this room and we've barricaded all the doors. It's really
bad."

He said that as he ran from the lobby, he saw people falling but did not know
the extent of any casualties. He said it seemed to be a "random attack".

North West MEP Mr Karim is part of a trade delegation visiting Mumbai for talks
but all the other members of the group, which included two British MEPs, are now
thought to be safe.

Fires could be seen burning in the top floors of the Taj Mahal hotel last night.

Alex Chamberlain, who works for a sports website and was in the city on
business, said the gunmen burst into the Oberoi hotel's restaurant and herded
diners upstairs.

He said he believed they were looking for British and American visitors.

"They told everybody to stop and put their hands up and asked if there were any
British or Americans. My friend said to me 'don't be a hero, don't say you are
British'. I am sure that is what this is all about. They were talking about
British and Americans specifically."

A senior police officer said: "The terrorists have used automatic weapons and in
some places grenades have been lobbed. We are trying to overpower them."

A spokesman for the Foreign Office said he could not give any indication of the
number of Britons involved in the incident and could not comment on reports that
British people were being targeted.

He said the Foreign Office was advising all British nationals to stay indoors.

British national Liam Butler told the BBC that he was close to the Taj Mahal
hotel when it was attacked.

"We just thought there were some fireworks, we looked up expecting to see some
fireworks, but we then sort of brushed it off," he said.

However, he was then unable to get back to his taxi and the news of the attack
quickly spread by word of mouth between taxi drivers in the area.

Mr Butler managed to get a taxi away from the area and was later near the
domestic airport when an explosion, which he described as a "taxi bomb", went
off.

He said it took hours to reach the northern part of the city and it was a "very,
very panicked" situation.

The Foreign Office warns travellers there is a "high threat" of terrorism
throughout India.

Attacks have targeted places of worship and major festivals such as Diwali as
well as areas popular with expatriates and foreign travellers.

Mumbai, known as the financial capital of India, has been among the major cities
targeted in violence across the country in recent years. In July 2006 a series
of explosions on commuter trains in Mumbai left more than 180 people dead and
hundreds injured.

In some areas of the country there are terrorist incidents "virtually on a daily
basis", according to the Foreign Office.

LOAD-DATE: November 28, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: 83


                 Copyright 2008 Western Morning News (Plymouth)
                              All Rights Reserved

                              65 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                      Western Morning News (Plymouth, UK)

                           November 27, 2008 Thursday

MEPs caught up in mumbai terror attacks;
Gordon Brown last night vowed a "vigorous response" to attacks in Mumbai which
have left 78 people dead.

SECTION: Pg. 1

LENGTH: 802 words


The Prime Minister promised to back the Indian government as it responds to the
series of attacks carried out by heavily-armed gunmen.

"These outrageous attacks in Mumbai will be met with a vigorous response," said
Mr Brown. "I have sent a message to Indian Prime Minister Manmohan Singh that
the UK stands solidly with his government as they respond, and to offer all
necessary help. Urgent action is under way to offer every possible protection to
British citizens in the region."

At least 200 people were injured when gunmen, described by police as
"terrorists", opened fire on a crowded Mumbai railway station, luxury hotels and
a restaurant popular with tourists.

Johnny Joseph, chief secretary for Maharashtra state in India, of which Mumbai
is the capital, said the death toll could rise further.

The gunmen attacked the Chhatrapati Shivaji Terminus station in southern Mumbai
and Leopold's restaurant, a Mumbai landmark, along with the Oberoi and Taj Mahal
hotels. There were unconfirmed reports of an explosion near the city's domestic
airport.

Eye-witnesses caught up in the chaos said that gunmen were looking for Britons
and Americans.

Shivraj Patil, minister for home affairs in India, told reporters that two
terrorists had been shot and two people arrested. Indian television reports also
claim that the country's anti-terrorism chief, Hemant Karkare, was killed in the
attacks.

There were also reports that Westerners had been taken hostage, although a
senior police officer denied this.

India media organisations were reporting that they had received emails from an
unknown group, the Deccan Mujahideen, claiming responsibility for the attacks.

Conservative MEP Sajjad Karim was barricaded in a basement room after he fled
from machine-gun fire in the Taj Mahal hotel. He said: "I was in the lobby of
the hotel when gunmen came in and people started running. There were about 25 or
30 of us. Some of us split one way and some another. A gunman just stood there
spraying bullets around, right next to me. I managed to turn away and I ran into
the hotel kitchen and then we were shunted into a restaurant in the basement. We
are now in the dark in this room and we've barricaded all the doors. It's really
bad."

He said that as he ran from the lobby, he saw people falling but did not know
the extent of any casualties. He said it seemed to be a "random attack".

North West MEP Mr Karim is part of a trade delegation visiting Mumbai for talks
but all the other members of the group, which included two British MEPs, are now
thought to be safe.

Fires could be seen burning in the top floors of the Taj Mahal hotel last night.

Alex Chamberlain, who works for a sports website and was in the city on
business, said the gunmen burst into the Oberoi hotel's restaurant and herded
diners upstairs.

He said he believed they were looking for British and American visitors.

"They told everybody to stop and put their hands up and asked if there were any
British or Americans. My friend said to me 'don't be a hero, don't say you are
British'. I am sure that is what this is all about. They were talking about
British and Americans specifically."

A senior police officer said: "The terrorists have used automatic weapons and in
some places grenades have been lobbed. We are trying to overpower them."

A spokesman for the Foreign Office said he could not give any indication of the
number of Britons involved in the incident and could not comment on reports that
British people were being targeted.

He said the Foreign Office was advising all British nationals to stay indoors.

British national Liam Butler told the BBC that he was close to the Taj Mahal
hotel when it was attacked.

"We just thought there were some fireworks, we looked up expecting to see some
fireworks, but we then sort of brushed it off," he said.

However, he was then unable to get back to his taxi and the news of the attack
quickly spread by word of mouth between taxi drivers in the area.

Mr Butler managed to get a taxi away from the area and was later near the
domestic airport when an explosion, which he described as a "taxi bomb", went
off.

He said it took hours to reach the northern part of the city and it was a "very,
very panicked" situation.

The Foreign Office warns travellers there is a "high threat" of terrorism
throughout India.

Attacks have targeted places of worship and major festivals such as Diwali as
well as areas popular with expatriates and foreign travellers.

Mumbai, known as the financial capital of India, has been among the major cities
targeted in violence across the country in recent years. In July 2006 a series
of explosions on commuter trains in Mumbai left more than 180 people dead and
hundreds injured.

In some areas of the country there are terrorist incidents "virtually on a daily
basis", according to the Foreign Office.

LOAD-DATE: August 21, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: 83


                 Copyright 2008 Western Morning News (Plymouth)
                              All Rights Reserved

                              66 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                      Western Morning News (Plymouth, UK)

                           November 27, 2008 Thursday

MEPs caught up in mumbai terror attacks;
Gordon Brown last night vowed a "vigorous response" to attacks in Mumbai which
have left 78 people dead.

SECTION: Pg. 1

LENGTH: 802  words


The Prime Minister promised to back the Indian government as it responds to the
series of attacks carried out by heavily-armed gunmen.

"These outrageous attacks in Mumbai will be met with a vigorous response," said
Mr Brown. "I have sent a message to Indian Prime Minister Manmohan Singh that
the UK stands solidly with his government as they respond, and to offer all
necessary help. Urgent action is under way to offer every possible protection to
British citizens in the region."

At least 200 people were injured when gunmen, described by police as
"terrorists", opened fire on a crowded Mumbai railway station, luxury hotels and
a restaurant popular with tourists.

Johnny Joseph, chief secretary for Maharashtra state in India, of which Mumbai
is the capital, said the death toll could rise further.

The gunmen attacked the Chhatrapati Shivaji Terminus station in southern Mumbai
and Leopold's restaurant, a Mumbai landmark, along with the Oberoi and Taj Mahal
hotels. There were unconfirmed reports of an explosion near the city's domestic
airport.

Eye-witnesses caught up in the chaos said that gunmen were looking for Britons
and Americans.

Shivraj Patil, minister for home affairs in India, told reporters that two
terrorists had been shot and two people arrested. Indian television reports also
claim that the country's anti-terrorism chief, Hemant Karkare, was killed in the
attacks.

There were also reports that Westerners had been taken hostage, although a
senior police officer denied this.

India media organisations were reporting that they had received emails from an
unknown group, the Deccan Mujahideen, claiming responsibility for the attacks.

Conservative MEP Sajjad Karim was barricaded in a basement room after he fled
from machine-gun fire in the Taj Mahal hotel. He said: "I was in the lobby of
the hotel when gunmen came in and people started running. There were about 25 or
30 of us. Some of us split one way and some another. A gunman just stood there
spraying bullets around, right next to me. I managed to turn away and I ran into
the hotel kitchen and then we were shunted into a restaurant in the basement. We
are now in the dark in this room and we've barricaded all the doors. It's really
bad."

He said that as he ran from the lobby, he saw people falling but did not know
the extent of any casualties. He said it seemed to be a "random attack".

North West MEP Mr Karim is part of a trade delegation visiting Mumbai for talks
but all the other members of the group, which included two British MEPs, are now
thought to be safe.

Fires could be seen burning in the top floors of the Taj Mahal hotel last night.

Alex Chamberlain, who works for a sports website and was in the city on
business, said the gunmen burst into the Oberoi hotel's restaurant and herded
diners upstairs.

He said he believed they were looking for British and American visitors.

"They told everybody to stop and put their hands up and asked if there were any
British or Americans. My friend said to me 'don't be a hero, don't say you are
British'. I am sure that is what this is all about. They were talking about
British and Americans specifically."

A senior police officer said: "The terrorists have used automatic weapons and in
some places grenades have been lobbed. We are trying to overpower them."

A spokesman for the Foreign Office said he could not give any indication of the
number of Britons involved in the incident and could not comment on reports that
British people were being targeted.

He said the Foreign Office was advising all British nationals to stay indoors.

British national Liam Butler told the BBC that he was close to the Taj Mahal
hotel when it was attacked.

"We just thought there were some fireworks, we looked up expecting to see some
fireworks, but we then sort of brushed it off," he said.

However, he was then unable to get back to his taxi and the news of the attack
quickly spread by word of mouth between taxi drivers in the area.

Mr Butler managed to get a taxi away from the area and was later near the
domestic airport when an explosion, which he described as a "taxi bomb", went
off.

He said it took hours to reach the northern part of the city and it was a "very,
very panicked" situation.

The Foreign Office warns travellers there is a "high threat" of terrorism
throughout India.

Attacks have targeted places of worship and major festivals such as Diwali as
well as areas popular with expatriates and foreign travellers.

Mumbai, known as the financial capital of India, has been among the major cities
targeted in violence across the country in recent years. In July 2006 a series
of explosions on commuter trains in Mumbai left more than 180 people dead and
hundreds injured.

In some areas of the country there are terrorist incidents "virtually on a daily
basis", according to the Foreign Office.

LOAD-DATE: June 11, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: 83


                 Copyright 2008 Western Morning News (Plymouth)
                              All Rights Reserved

                              67 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring South Asia - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                            November 28, 2008 Friday

UN asks members to cooperate with India over terror attacks

LENGTH: 171 words


Text of report by Indian news agency PTI

United Nations, 28 November: Condemning the terror attacks in Mumbai, the UN
Security Council has asked member nations of the world body to offer active
cooperation to India in bringing the perpetrators to book.

The 15-member powerful Council underlined the need to bring the organisers,
financiers and perpetrators of the "reprehensible act" to justice and asked all
member States of the UN to cooperate actively with Indian authorities, a
statement said.

Reaffirming that terrorism is a threat to international peace and security, the
members said regardless of their motivation, all acts of terrorism are criminal
and unjustifiable.

They also expressed their condolences to the families of the victims, to the
people and the government.

At least 127 people, including 14 police personnel have been killed and 327
persons injured in the deadly strike on India's financial capital.

The dead also include at least nine foreigners.

Source: PTI news agency, New Delhi, in English 0455gmt 28 Nov 08

LOAD-DATE: November 28, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2008 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              68 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring South Asia - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                            November 28, 2008 Friday

India: Goa on high alert after Mumbai terror attacks

LENGTH: 259 words


Text of report by Indian news agency PTI

Panaji [Goa], 27 November: In wake of the terror attacks in neighbouring Mumbai,
Goa, the state with highest foreign tourist arrivals in the country, has stepped
up security in the coastal belt and hotels.

Organizers of International Film Festival of India (IFFI), being held here and
participated by a large number of foreign delegates, have also been alerted by
the police.

"I have asked the police to assess the situation. Goa has been put on high
alert," Chief Secretary J P Singh told PTI Thursday morning.

Since some foreigners are among those killed in the attacks, Goa Police are
keeping extra vigil on beaches like Baga and Calangute, which are frequented by
overseas tourists.

The instructions were issued last night itself to ensure that there is alert on
the beach belt and also in the prominent hotels, Superintendent of Police
(Special Branch) Atmaram Deshpande said.

According to the Goa tourism department, around 20,000 foreigners are currently
holidaying in the state.

The state attracts around three lakh foreign tourists annually, nearly 50 per
cent from Britain.

Police have sought assistance from Indian Coast Guard to patrol the 105-km-long
coastline passing through the state.

Security blanket has been thrown around the IFFI venues, Deshpande said. The
10-day festival entered its fifth day today.

The government had deployed two companies of paramilitary forces to guard the
IFFI venues besides pressing in service the state police force.

Source: PTI news agency, New Delhi, in English 1728gmt 27 Nov 08

LOAD-DATE: November 28, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2008 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              69 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                    BBC Monitoring Asia Pacific - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                            November 28, 2008 Friday

Vietnam condemns Mumbai terror attack

LENGTH: 120 words


Text of report in English by state-run Vietnamese news agency VNA website

Hanoi (VNA) -Vietnam vehemently condemns the terrorist attacks in Mumbai , India
, that killed and injured many people, said Foreign Ministry Spokesman Le Dung
at a press conference in Hanoi on Nov. 27.

Responding to reporters' question regarding Vietnam 's reaction to the Nov. 26
attacks, the spokesman said: " Vietnam condemns all terrorist acts in any form
and for any reason."

The perpetrators of the attacks must be punished strictly, he stressed.

"We express our deepest sympathies to the Indian government, its people and the
families of the victims of the terror attacks," he added.

Source: VNA news agency website, Hanoi, in English 27 Nov 08

LOAD-DATE: November 28, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2008 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              70 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring South Asia - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                            November 28, 2008 Friday

Sri Lanka president condemns India terror attacks

LENGTH: 246 words


Text of report by Sri Lanka Ministry of Defence website on 27 November

My government and I hasten to condemn most vehemently the brutal acts of
terrorism that killed more than 100 persons and injured many more in the attacks
carried out in the Indian city of Mumbai last night.

Our thoughts to go out to the families of those killed and injured and in these
acts of terror; we express our deepest sympathies to the families of the
deceased and wish a speedy recovery to those injured, and the safe and early
release of hostages.

The attacks on leading hotels, hospitals and public transport in Mumbai, the
business and financial capital of India, show that the terrorists are targeting
an important sector of the Indian economy, with a view destabilizing democracy
in India.

These unfortunate attacks bring into focus the urgent need for concerted action
by all countries to eradicate the menace of terrorism, wherever it is, and
whoever the leaders and manipulators of such violence may be.

As a country that has suffered the most brutal terrorism for the past three
decades, and is currently engaged in determined action to eradicate it from our
midst, Sri Lanka stands with the Government and people of India at this time of
tragedy and remain firm in our commitment to jointly combat and eradicate
terrorism in all its forms from our countries, as well as from the South Asian
Region.

Source: Sri Lanka Ministry of Defence, Public Security, Law and Order website in
English 27 Nov 08

LOAD-DATE: November 28, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2008 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              71 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring South Asia - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                            November 28, 2008 Friday

Pakistan TV show discusses India terror attacks

LENGTH: 1515 words


Karachi Geo News television in Urdu at 1700 gmt on 27 November relays live
regularly scheduled "Today with Kamran Khan" program. Noted Pakistani journalist
Kamran Khan reviews, discusses and analyzes major day-to-day developments with
government ministers and officials, opposition leaders, and prominent analysts
in Geo TV's flagship program. Words within double slant lines are in English.

Program: "Today with Kamran Khan"

Reception: Good

Duration: 60 minutes

Today's program is on terror attacks in Mumbai, implications for Pakistan.

Kamran Khan says: "India's //business capital// Mumbai, where the biggest
terrorist act in the Indian history took place 24 hours ago, now appears to be
totally paralyzed." Khan says "youths dressed in western clothes" carried out
coordinated attacks on the most prominent locations in South Mumbai as a result
of which 125 people have been killed and more than 300 injured. Continuing, Khan
says the situation has yet not been resolved even 24 hours after the incident
and 50 persons are still being held as hostages at Oberoi Trident Hotel.

Khan says Indian reaction to the incident so far hints that an "extremely
serious" situation is developing and Indian Prime Minister Manmohan Singh in an
address to nation said that "these attacks were, in fact, planned outside India
in some other country and people from outside India came and these terrorists
from outside carried out attacks in Mumbai." Khan adds: soon after Singh's
claim, an Indian naval officer claimed that two boats have been seized and
according to him, the terrorists had entered into Mumbai via sea route and the
boats used by the terrorists were of "Pakistani //ownership//." Khan says:
Indian Army Officer Maj. Gen. R. K. Huda, who is commanding the military
operation in Mumbai, has stated in a television interview that according to his
information, "the attackers came from Pakistan."

Khan establishes telephonic contact in Mumbai with Ms. Priyanka Kakodkar, Mumbai
bureau chief of NDTV, and asks her to update the latest situation in Mumbai.
Kakodkar says tension persists in three areas of Taj Hotel, Oberoi Hotel, and
Nariman House where operation to flush out terrorists is still continuing. When
Khan asks whether it is now clear how many gunmen were involved, Kakodkar says
the officials are claiming that 25 persons are involved and General Huda
indicated that they had "come from across the border." Kakodkar adds: General
Huda's assertion is based on the "language used in the //transcript// by
terrorists inside the Nariman House, but no "evidence" has been publicly given
and the investigation is in very preliminary stage and only thing which is clear
is that the attacks were "very well planned" and the authorities were caught
unaware.

Khan says: "it has been stated at the highest level in India that the Mumbai
attacks were planned outside India and the attackers came from outside India. An
Indian Army general has said that the attackers have come from Pakistan."

Khan establishes telephonic contact in Mumbai with Ganesh Thakur, Star News TV
correspondent, and asks him whether the authorities have given any definite
information regarding the identity of the 7 or 8 terrorists killed in the
operation and of one arrested terrorist. Thakur says the authorities have only
given the name of arrested terrorist as Ismail, but it has not been disclosed as
to which terrorist outfit he belongs. Thakur says: an outfit calling itself
Deccan Mujahidin has claimed responsibility of the attack and the police are
busy collecting information about this hitherto unknown outfit.

Khan says although outfit calling itself Deccan Mujahidin is claiming
responsibility for the attacks, but Indian and other observers immediately
rejected this claim on the basis of the India TV interview with a terrorist
holed up in Nariman House whose "manner of speaking" absolutely makes it clear
that he is not from India's Hyderabad Deccan, rather the manner in which he
spoke makes it clear that he is from Punjab.

Khan says Indian Prime Minister Singh in his address to the nation clearly
stated that the Mumbai attacks were planned outside India and he clearly hinted
that evidence is available that these attackers came from outside India. Khan
says this is what Singh stated:

[Begin Singh recording, in English] We will take up strongly with our neighbors
that the use of their territory for launching attacks on us will not be
tolerated and that there would be a cost if suitable measures are not taken by
them. [end recording]

Khan says: although Singh did not name any country, but he clearly stated that
India's neighboring countries could be responsible and after Singh address an
Indian naval officer claimed that two boats which have been seized were coming
from Pakistan and the terrorists entered Mumbai via sea route. Khan adds: an
Indian Army officer Maj. Gen. Huda, who is commanding the military operation in
Mumbai, also told news reporters that according to evidence he has received so
far, the terrorists came from Pakistan's Faridkot area.

Khan establishes telephonic contact with Narender S. Sisodia, director of Indian
Institute of Defense Studies and Analysis, and asks him why Pakistan's name is
being zeroed in and whether this would lead to the development of a "//major
situation//" between India and Pakistan. Sisodia says: the investigations are
only at preliminary stages, but what is clear that terrorists in "very large
number" entered India via sea route and they were "//well trained//" and "//well
prepared//" which has led to speculations that the terrorists definitely have
the external support and they have some sort of links with "//foreign
network//." Khan says: there is a need to exercise caution before naming
anybody, but Prime Minister Singh has clearly stated that attackers have come
from outside India and the attacks were planned outside India. Sisodia says:
when so many well trained and well equipped people come via boats, so obviously
it means they have come from outside India. Sisodia, howe! ver, adds that exact
links of the terrorists could be established only after the completion of
investigations. Continuing, Sisodia says: there is no need for overreaction on
Singh's remarks and the media should not "jump to conclusions." Sisodia adds
that anything definite could be stated only if some firm evidence emerges during
the investigation.

Khan establishes telephonic contact in Rawalpindi with retired Lt. Gen.
Salahuddin Tirmizi, former Pakistan corps commander and former commandant of
Pakistan National Defense College, to discuss the "//seriousness//" of hints
from India that Pakistan may be involved in Mumbai attacks. Tirmizi says he
suspects that "Pakistan's enemies have decided to tighten noose around
Pakistan." Tirmizi says a "//drama//" of hijacking of an Indian Airlines plane
was staged in 1971 to use it as an excuse to separate East Pakistan from
Pakistan. Continuing, Tirmizi says: the present environment in Pakistan of
nascent democracy and weakened economy does not allow it to get involved in any
"//adventurism//" abroad. Timrizi adds: Pakistan itself is a victim of terrorism
and Americans are continuously carrying out drone attacks even though Pakistan
is its ally and is helping it. Timrizi says: no "sensible person" in the given
situation in Pakistan can even think that the Pakistan government or any of its
military agency could get itself involved in plotting attacks on any other
country. Khan asks whether the Mumbai attacks would be used as en excuse to
build up "military pressure" on Pakistan and how Pakistan should prepare itself
to face the challenge. Tirmizi says: it is "moment of reckoning" for Pakistan's
military and political leadership because Pakistan is already under pressure on
the western front and it is involved in fighting insurgencies in Baluchistan and
Tribal areas and it is continuously under American drone attacks and now the
pressure would mount on its eastern front as well. Timrizi says he is seeing
"big threat" to Pakistan and there is need for Pakistani nation to be united.
Continuing, Timrizi says TV reports say the Mumbai attacks are being projected
as 9/11 of India and the Indian military leaders have already started meeting.
Timrizi says President Bush's telephonic call [to Prime Minister Singh] to
express US "solidarity" and the presence of Israelis in Mumbai point to
"mounting threats" for Pakistan. Kha n asks what Pakistan should at diplomatic
level to dilute and manage the developing, situation, Timrizi says diplomatic
efforts could be launched, but Pakistan should also prepare itself "militarily"
and a "state of //emergency//" should be declared to protect the border" and all
"//elements of power//" should be mobilized. Timrizi adds: Indian diplomatic
efforts to declare Pakistan a "//rogue state//" would now be intensified and it
would be argued that Pakistan wants to destabilize both Afghanistan and India,
although the fact is that Pakistan itself is being destabilized by India and
Afghanistan.

Source: Geo TV, Karachi, in Urdu 1700gmt 27 Nov 08

LOAD-DATE: November 28, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2008 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              72 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring South Asia - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                            November 28, 2008 Friday

Indian security experts term terror attacks "strategic Failure", blame Pakistan

LENGTH: 421 words


Text of unattributed report headlined "Complete strategic failure: experts"
published by Indian newspaper The Asian Age website on 28 November

New Delhi, 27 November: Intelligence experts termed the Mumbai terror attack as
"complete strategic failure" and said terrorists in India are now following the
lines of Al-Qa'idah and Taleban.

Experts believe that security agencies should concentrate more on how to counter
new methods which are being adopted by terror outfits in the country. Talking to
this news paper, Mr A.K. Doval, former IB [Intelligence Bureau] director, said,
"There is a need to think beyond maintaining law and order as terrorists are
adopting new methods of attack". Besides, one has to identify the source from
where threats are emanating, he said adding that eliminate the centres where
terrorists are being trained.

"You will have to work hard to counter the terrorism effectively. Assess the
level of Mumbai terror attack properly and than chalk out a strategy to counter
it," said Mr Doval. Echoing this, Mr M.K. Dhar, former joint director, IB, said:
"If you are living in war field than live like a soldier. Mumbai terror attack
is a strategic failure. We have paid the price for complete failure on the part
of our strategic thinkers."

India should have learnt the lesson from Marriot hotel blast in Islamabad, he
said adding that hotel blast was a joint handiwork of Al-Qa'idah and Taleban.

"Why is India not raising the issue of cross-border terrorism effectively?
Pakistan has done precious little to stop cross-border terrorism and eliminate
the terrorist infrastructure on its territory. Terrorists in India are closely
associated with Al-Qa'idah and Taleban and they are following the same line," he
said. Former joint director further said: "Coastal security is another area
which needs to be properly assessed. At present out Coastal security is nothing.
Terrorists can easily enter India through sea-routes."

Meanwhile, security has been beefed-up at all sensitive installations throughout
the country following the attacks in Mumbai.

Security at airports, nuclear installations, seaports, Metro stations,
government offices, public sector units and other sensitive installations has
been strengthened. Advisory in this regard was issued on Wednesday. According to
sources, the state police has also been instructed to intensify checking and
patrolling at bus terminals, railway stations, airport, cinema halls and other
public places.

Source: The Asian Age website, Delhi, in English 28 Nov 08

LOAD-DATE: November 28, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2008 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              73 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                       BBC Monitoring Europe - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                            November 28, 2008 Friday

Bosnian police official details "Islamic" terror group "planning" attack

LENGTH: 2318 words


Text of report by Bosnian wide-circulation privately-owned daily Dnevni avaz, on
22 November

[Sedmica supplement interview with Zlatko Miletic, director of B-H Federation
Police Administration, by Mirela Kukan; place and date not given: "Brutal
Showdowns Between So-Called Albanian, Sarajevan Mafias Are a Possibility" --
first two paragraphs are Dnevni Avaz introduction]

There have been many arrests made over the past month. From the quick resolution
of the case of explosion in the FIS Vitez shopping mall, through the arrest of a
suspect in the assassination of Nacional co-owner Ivo Pukanic, to the search for
Zeljko Milovanovic and the case of "Gasi and others." Zlatko Miletic, the
director of the B-H [Bosnia-Hercegovina] Federation Police Administration (FUP),
said that the arrests would not have been so successful if it was not for the
cooperation among all police agencies in Bosnia-Hercegovina.

He told Dnevni Avaz that there in particular would not have been efficiency
without the help of the B-H Intelligence and Security Agency (OSA). All these
cases, however, have upset the citizens, despite that they have showed that the
police are doing a good job.

Espionage Activities

[Kukan] The State and the B-H Federation Parliament asked to have a discussion
about the security situation in Bosnia-Hercegovina. What kind of answers can you
give?

[Miletic] Statistically, the security situation in the B-H Federation is more
favourable than in the same period last year. The number of crimes reported has
dropped by 8 per cent. Statistics, however, is not the only indicator, and I
completely agree with the citizens' sentiments, which for us are much more
important. However, in order to improve the situation and the standard of
living, we have to move in three directions.

The first is that each citizen in a way becomes responsible for security. I am
not talking about them becoming involved in espionage activities; they truly
have to make the police agencies -- and this is the second direction -- serve
the citizens. The third direction -- and a very important one -- is that
political office holders in the B-H Federation realize that there is no economic
prosperity in Bosnia-Hercegovina without the establishment of a system of
justice. Police agencies are just one segment of security into which they must
invest money in order to have as the final result a safe environment, and this
in turn will attract both foreign and domestic capital and investments, and
create jobs.

[Kukan] Could you tell us what you have learned about the motives for the
terrorist attack on the FIS Vitez shopping mall?

[Miletic] I could not because we still have an ongoing intensive investigation
conducted by the B-H Prosecutor's Office. We are still working on identifying
the person who ordered this criminal act.

[Kukan] Do you have more information about the arrested Elvis Hadzic from Velika
Kladusa and his links to the Pukanic assassination?

[Miletic] We received information that led us to this person from the Croatian
MUP's [Interior Ministry] administration. We managed to link this person to two
elements of this severe crime. On the day of the assassination he was in Zagreb,
and we found some of the explosives in his house. This does not mean that this
person was directly involved, but we, in cooperation with the prosecution and
the state court, are still processing him; we will be in a position to say more
when forensic examinations and other operations are completed.

[Kukan] In addition to this, the FUP almost daily detains people who had
contacts with Muhamed Ali Gasi, during the trial against him and others accused
of forming a criminal organization. How come Gasi had a mobile telephone in
prison, and what have you learned from his wiretapped conversations?

[Miletic] As for possession of a mobile telephone, you have to ask the
responsible ministry. This, however, is an obvious indicator that we urgently
need a reform of the prison system. As for the contents of the taped
conversations, I am not at liberty to provide any information because the
investigation is ongoing.

[Kukan] A part of the wiretapped conversations was disclosed to the media. Over
the past 15 days several lawyers called our journalists to say that the
disclosure of recordings was illegal and was jeopardizing the investigation. Are
there any elements here, as the lawyers said, of a criminal act?

[Miletic] I think that lawyers are sufficiently trained in the law to know who
they must turn to in this regard. In charge of this are the judicial bodies;
thus, the issue of whether we have elements of a criminal act in this case needs
to be assessed by the responsible prosecutor or judicial body.

Police Authorities

[Kukan] Have FUP Inspector Edin Vranj and his family received adequate security
measures after it was learned from the wiretapped conversations between Gasi and
Senad Sahinpasic that hideous threats were made to his underage daughter?

[Miletic] Yes, they have. The FUP has done everything it should have done. In
addition to Vranj, we have another two police officers who have received threats
from other criminal groups. I may not be more specific about this, but it is
important that these groups know that, as far as the FUP is concerned, we will
do all that it takes to protect our police officers and, of course, their
families.

[Kukan] Have you been exposed to threats as well? We have information that
direct threats were made to you and your child during a trial in Travnik?

[Miletic] I really would not like to comment on this because it is unnecessary.

[Kukan] Along with the disclosure of the wiretapped conversations and arrests of
people who may be linked to Gasi, a bloody incident happened in Sarajevo's
Incognito cafe. Do the police have information about the possibility of even
more brutal mafia showdowns? There have been rumours about the possibility of a
conflict between the so-called Albanian and Sarajevan mafias?

[Miletic] It is important to note that police officers of the Sarajevo Canton
MUP managed to shed light on every single detail of what transpired there.
Unfortunately, the perpetrators are out of reach of the police authorities, and
we are conducting intensive operations in our country and abroad to find them.
My strong recommendation to them would be to contact us as soon as possible.

As for the possible conflicts that you mentioned, we do not have reliable
information that they could occur, but this is an environment where such a
possibility may not be ruled out. In any case, heads of police agencies have
been considering this possibility, and we stand ready to act in every sense of
the word.

[Kukan] Despite your successful work, in the previous month the B-H Federation
police officers were one of the few budget beneficiaries whose salaries were
late. Why?

[Miletic] You have to ask the B-H Federation Government. We have a correct
relationship with it in terms of the financing, but we are afraid of the
forthcoming period. In the next three months we will need around 7.6 million
convertible marks [KM], and I hope that a way will be found to pay the salaries.
Another segment is that, due to the new situation and problems that other budget
beneficiaries have, our funds necessary for regular operations are blocked.

On the other hand, we have several things in plan for next year, and we will ask
for a budget increase not because of the salaries, but because of the
operational requirements that mainly have to do with the procurement of
equipment and staffing, because we are still short of around 40 percent of
inspectors.

Sports Grounds

[Kukan] As for the canton and B-H Federation laws on interior, do they need to
be amended for the sake of harmonized operations of all police forces in the B-H
Federation?

[Miletic] We have had problems in that regard for a long time now. We have no
new interior laws because of a lack of political consensus for over two years. I
do not wish to prejudge things, but we need police commissioners' operational
and financial autonomy. In this way police management bodies would be much more
efficient and would in turn be more responsible.

We also have not resolved laws to prevent violence in sports events, and we
probably will soon have to be forced to ban spectators from stadiums that do not
meet requirements for holding of soccer matches.

Furthermore, we still do not have a law to fight terrorism at the state level. I
am not only talking about Islamic terrorism, but about other forms as well, and
trafficking in humans, prevention of money laundering, and confiscation of
illegally acquired property. Current provisions are not sufficient and are not
sufficiently implemented.

[Kukan] What are the examples of Islamic terrorism in Bosnia-Hercegovina?

[Miletic] We are currently investigating and documenting activities of a group
that has set a goal of perpetrating a terrorist act with a political background.
It is highly worrying when someone obtains a suicide belt. The question is what
he intends to do with it, who he wants to kill? We sooner or later will have to
deal with this issue in Bosnia-Hercegovina in a completely different and
thorough manner. Not by providing space to Islamophobes to portray
Bosnia-Hercegovina as it is not, but we do have people who do not mean well to
Bosnia-Hercegovina, Muslims, Bosniaks, and other ethnic groups alike.

[Kukan] Could you be more specific about this group? You mean the Wahhabis?

[Miletic] No. Wahhabis have essentially become a synonym for this kind of
terrorism. These are Salafis. We have four groups of these people, of which two
are of great interest of us, considering their way of thinking, views, and ideas
how to solve problems in Bosnia-Hercegovina and the world -- in this sense they
are planning some aggressive or militarist measures.

[Kukan] Is their arrest in the works? Is the person who obtained the suicide
belt still at large?

[Miletic] This person has been detained. We, however, are investigating another
group of people who intended to perpetrate a serious terrorist act in
Bosnia-Hercegovina. I cannot discuss details; we are working together with the
B-H Prosecutor's Office, and I hope that we will manage to obtain evidence.

Support Network

[Kukan] Does our country need the so-called "anti-mafia" laws, by which everyone
would have to prove the provenance of their property, without the state having
to prove it?

[Miletic] Mafia in every sense of the word, as a synonym, does exist in
Bosnia-Hercegovina; but when you look at the aspects of what this truly implies,
it then does not exist in Bosnia-Hercegovina [as published]. It implies things
like control of a territory and involvement of public and political office
holders in criminal activities. We do not have these elements, but it is certain
that we have a range of organized groups, criminal organizations even, and we
have to deal with these problems in earnest.

We urgently need some 10 laws to give the police the mechanisms to do their job.
For example, it is incomprehensible that our country adopted a strategy to
detect and capture war criminals only 13 years after the war ended. The network
helping these people hide is strongly linked to organized crime. Our strategies
to fight terrorism and organized crime will expire in June next year, but there
are no bodies in Bosnia-Hercegovina monitoring the implementation of these
measures, which practically means that they are not being applied.

We also need to amend the Criminal Code and the Criminal Procedure Code,
especially in regard to custody measures, which have to be applied more
frequently, particularly for repeat offenders.

[p 2] Attack on Mosque in Mostar

[Miletic] As for terrorist acts, in order to avoid confusion, we recently had a
terrorist attack on a mosque in Mostar, which was committed by a Croat.
Important in this regard is regional cooperation; our colleagues in Croatia's
MUP met our request and we were able to get to the perpetrator and prove
criminal intent. So, these are not just Muslims. In Bosnia-Hercegovina we have a
range of other acts with elements of terrorism. Although Bosnia-Hercegovina may
often be accused of this, our findings show that EU countries have bigger
problems with terrorism than Bosnia-Hercegovina.

Special Investigative Operations

[Miletic] We asked that the bar be raised for the application of special
investigative operations. I particularly am referring to corruption. We have the
"report card" case in Croatia, and the situation is no better in
Bosnia-Hercegovina, but we do not have the mechanisms to detect and prevent such
cases. Citizens are very dissatisfied about this, including corruption in the
health care sector and to a certain extent in the police as well. These crimes
are very difficult to prove with the measures currently applied; we may not
apply special investigative operations such as interception of telephone calls,
operational surveillance of some group, and so on, because low prison sentences
are envisaged for these crimes.

Our Helicopters Are in Slovenia, Serbia

[Miletic] We will suggest to the government and the parliament to resolve after
so many years the problem of design and procurement of police uniforms for all
police forces in B-H Federation. We need over KM40 million to do this for some
8,300 police officers. Another problem is different salary levels in the B-H
Federation. The worst situation in the Central Bosnian Canton -- police officers
there have meagre salaries. We want each police officer to have the same wages.

We will also request that FUP get a helicopter to be at the service of citizens.
Unfortunately, due to the incompetence of state bodies, Bosnia-Hercegovina still
has not got back three helicopters that were confiscated at the beginning of the
aggression against Bosnia-Hercegovina; one is in Slovenia, two are in Serbia.

Source: Dnevni avaz, Sarajevo, in Bosnian/Croatian/Serbian 22 Nov 08, pp 2,3

LOAD-DATE: November 28, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2008 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              74 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                       BBC Monitoring Africa - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                            November 28, 2008 Friday

Kenyan paper urges global community to fight terrorism in wake of India attacks

LENGTH: 287 words


Text of editorial entitled "Crush the cowards" published by Kenyan
privately-owned newspaper Daily Nation website on 28 November

India became the latest casualty of terror attack on Wednesday [26 November]
night in a grave episode that claimed more than 100 lives and left 200 stuck in
two hotels in Mumbai. It was a bizarre offensive when the world thought acts of
terror were declining.

In this case, an extremist militant group, Deccan Mujahideen, has claimed
responsibility for the attack and cited India's support of America and Britain's
policies as their grouse.

Details are still scanty about the real motive for this nefarious, dastardly and
cowardly act, but it brings to the fore the grave reality of terrorism. Besides
economic crisis, terrorism remains one of the chilling challenges facing
humanity.

Extremists of all shades have adopted terror as a tool for blackmail. But the
civil world cannot, and will not, be cowed by this kind of violence.

India, Pakistan and their neighbours on the Asian continent are perennial
sufferers of terrorist attacks. But this atrocity has broken all the records.

Here was a case where the extremists targeted tourist hotels, aiming to hit at
visiting foreigners, mainly from Western capitals. Groups may complain about
exclusion, harassment, inequalities and prejudices, but there is very little to
gain by killing.

As India's Prime Minister Manmohan Singh pledged, these outlaws must be rounded
up and made to pay for their evil deeds.

A small group cannot be allowed to continue raining terror on the civilized
world. All right-thinking members of the international community must come
together and fight this common threat.

Source: Daily Nation website, Nairobi, in English 28 Nov 08

LOAD-DATE: November 28, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2008 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              75 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                    BBC Monitoring Asia Pacific - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                            November 28, 2008 Friday

Indonesian vice-president condemns Mumbai terror attacks

LENGTH: 163 words


Text of report by Indonesian privately-owned news and talk station, Radio
Elshinta on 28 November

[Begin recording] [Unidentified Elshinta correspondent] Indonesian Vice
President Muhammad Jusuf Kalla has strongly condemned the terrorist attacks in
Mumbai, India, that has killed hundreds of people. The vice president made his
statement after Friday prayers at the vice presidential palace. According to
Kalla, he shares the sentiments of the Indian people because Indonesia had also
been attacked by terrorists, such as the bombing in Bali and on the JW Marriott
Hotel. Following is the statement of the vice president.

[Jusuf Kalla] Our people and government express concern and condolences, and we
condemn the action because we have also suffered from similar terrorist attacks
such as in Bali and on the JW Marriott.

[Correspondent] That is the statement from Vice President Muhammad Jusuf Kalla
[End recording].

Source: Radio Elshinta, Jakarta, in Indonesian 0830 gmt 28 Nov 08

LOAD-DATE: November 28, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2008 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              76 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring South Asia - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                            November 28, 2008 Friday

Pakistan president calls Indian PM, condemns terror attacks

LENGTH: 195 words


Text of report by official news agency Associated Press of Pakistan (APP)

Islamabad, 28 November: President Asif Ali Zardari called the Indian Prime
Minister Manmohan Singh on telephone Friday [28 November] and condemned the
Mumbai terrorist attacks. Talking to the Indian Prime Minister, President Asif
Ali Zardari said that he was appalled and shocked over the tragedy, which he
said had opened up his own wounds as Shaheed Mohtarma Bhutto had also fallen
prey to the militants and terrorists.

He said that non-state actors wanted to force upon the governments their own
agenda but they must not be allowed to succeed. The president said, "We should
not fall into the trap of the militants."

The president said the government will cooperate with India in exposing and
apprehending the culprits and the masterminds behind the attacks. President Asif
Ali Zardari also conveyed to the Indian prime minister his heartfelt condolences
and of the people of Pakistan over the loss of innocent lives in the attacks and
urged him to convey his feelings to the members of the bereaved families.

Source: Associated Press of Pakistan news agency, Islamabad, in English 1016gmt
28 Nov 08

LOAD-DATE: November 28, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2008 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              77 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                        BBC Monitoring Central Asia Unit
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                            November 28, 2008 Friday

Kyrgyz premier sends condolences to India over terror attacks

LENGTH: 159 words


Text of report by privately-owned Kyrgyz AKIpress news agency website

Kyrgyz Prime Minister Igor Chudinov sent a telegram of condolence to Indian
Prime Minister Mr Manmohan Singh yesterday, 27 November 2008, over tragic events
that happened in the [Indian] city of Mumbai.

The [Kyrgyz] government's press service said that Igor Chudinov wrote in his
telegram that he "received news about a terrorist act that happened in Mumbai,
which caused many casualties, with a feeling of deep grief and indignation".

"In Kyrgyzstan, people condemn the cruel terrorist act against peaceful people
and they sincerely empathize with the kith and kin of those killed and wish the
injured the soonest recovery," the Kyrgyz premier said in his telegram.

In conclusion, the Kyrgyz prime minister conveyed his deep condolences and words
of support to all Indian people on behalf of the Kyrgyz government.

Source: AKIpress news agency website, Bishkek, in Russian 0233 gmt 28 Nov 08

LOAD-DATE: November 28, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2008 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              78 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                       BBC Monitoring Europe - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                            November 28, 2008 Friday

Turkish leaders strongly condemns terrorist attacks in India

LENGTH: 148 words


Text of report in English by Turkish semi-official news agency Anatolia

["TURKEY CONDEMNS DEADLY ATTACKS IN INDIA" - AA headline]

ANKARA (A.A) -27.11.2008 -Turkish politicians condemned Thursday yesterday's
militant attacks in the Indian province of Mumbai during which nearly 100 people
were killed and hundreds were wounded.

Releasing a statement, Turkish Ministry of Foreign Affairs said that Turkey
strongly condemned the deadly attacks and Turkish President Abdullah Gul,
Premier Recep Tayyip Erdogan and Foreign Minister Ali Babacan sent messages of
condolence to their Indian counterparts following the incidents.

"Turkey stands together with the Republic of India and the Indian nation against
the trouble of terrorism which is the enemy of all mankind and it shares their
sorrow and anger," the ministry's statement said.

Source: Anatolia news agency, Ankara, in English 1119 gmt 27 Nov 08

LOAD-DATE: November 28, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2008 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              79 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                    BBC Monitoring Asia Pacific - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                            November 28, 2008 Friday

Cambodian PM sends sympathy to Indian counterpart on terror attacks

LENGTH: 176 words


On 27 November, Cambodian Government-run Phnom Penh Television Kampuchea in
Cambodian at 1200 gmt carried an announcer-read "message of condolences" before
its primetime evening newscast that Prime Minister Hun Sen to his Indian
counterpart Manmohan Singh on 27 November, condemning the recent terror attacks
in Mumbai.

The message reads:

"Your Excellency,

"I am extremely shocked and saddened to learn about the recent terror attacks in
Mumbai, causing deaths and injuries to hundreds of innocent people.

"Together with all the pacifists in the world, I vehemently and unreservedly
condemn the inhuman and barbaric terrorist acts that the international community
should join forces to condemn.

"On this sorrowful occasion, I wish to express, through Your Excellency, my
utmost grief and sympathy to the Indian Government and people, especially to the
families of the victims of the cruel and cowardly attacks.

"Your Excellency, please, accept my highest regards.

"[Signed] Hun Sen, Prime Minister."

Source: Television Kampuchea, Phnom Penh, in Cambodian 27 Nov 08

LOAD-DATE: November 28, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2008 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              80 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                            Birmingham Evening Mail

                            November 28, 2008 Friday
                                 First Edition

England plan on Test return;
CRICKET: Squad head home after Mumbai terrorist attacks

BYLINE: Myles Hodgson in Bhupenswar

SECTION: SPORT; Pg. 68

LENGTH: 384 words


ENGLAND begin their journey back from India today intending to return for the
Test series despite security reservations over the terror attacks in Mumbai.

The tourists fly to Bangalore later today to meet up with the Performance
Programme squad, who will then join the main squad and return to London while
talks continue between the England and Wales Cricket Board and the Board of
Control for Cricket in India about the resumption of the tour.

Doubts persist about whether England will return for the Test series, which was
due to begin in Ahmedabad on December 11 and finish in Mumbai although the venue
for the final Test will have to be moved after the attacks killed over 100
people and injured more than 250.

The events were particularly shocking for the England party because one of the
main targets, the Taj Mahal Palace hotel, was their base at the start of the
tour and was due to host them again for the final Test.

But as they began their journey today, England insisted they intend to honour
their commitment for the two-Test series providing security concerns can be
addressed.

"We're going to London to re-evaluate the situation but the Test series is still
in place," explained Hugh Morris, the managing director of English cricket.

"To get back to a home environment will be a good thing. It's been an awful
tragedy that this has happened in Mumbai and the players have felt very close to
it because they have been in the hotel and in the rooms and the restaurant only
a couple of weeks ago and getting back home for a few days will serve them well.

"Clearly where England go to play cricket we have security advice, we act on
that security advice and if that says it is safe and secure for players and
management to go that is what we will do.

"This is a tragic event and the players feel desperately sorry for all that are
caught up in the events in Mumbai. They're very disturbed by it as we all are."

Whether the players will want to return to such an unstable region once they
return home to their families is very much in the balance, but assuming security
advice does not advise any different, Morris expects the tour to resume.

"I think the players' desire will be there," he claimed. "It's a Test series the
players have looked forward to for a long period of time."

LOAD-DATE: November 28, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:  Hugh Morris expects the tour to resume.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


               Copyright 2008 Midland Independent Newspapers plc
                              All Rights Reserved

                              81 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                            Birmingham Evening Mail

                            November 28, 2008 Friday
                                 Second Edition

Cricket: England plan on Test return;
CRICKET: Squad head home after Mumbai terrorist attacks

BYLINE: Myles Hodgson in Bhupenswar

SECTION: SPORT; Pg. 68

LENGTH: 351 words


ENGLAND began their journey back from India today intending to return for the
Test series despite security reservations over the terror attacks in Mumbai.

The Board of Cricket for Control in India today reiterated the series would go
ahead as planned although they have switched the Second Test from Mumbai to
Chennai.

Talks between the BCCI and the England and Wales Cricket Board have been ongoing
since England decided yesterday to leave India and return home.

The Second Test was due to be staged in Mumbai, starting on December 19, but
that has been switched to Chennai, which is located on India's south-east coast.

N. Srinivasan, the honorary secretary of the BCCI, said today: "India's Test
series against England will be played as per schedule.

"Chennai will host the Second Test instead of Mumbai.

"The First Test will be played in Ahmedabad from December 11 to December 15, as
originally scheduled.

"Baroda will host the three-day game between the visitors and the Board
President's XI from December 5 to December 7 as scheduled."

England flew to Bangalore today to meet up with the Performance Programme squad,
who will then join the main squad and return to London.

Despite the BCCI's statement today, doubts persist about whether England will
return for the Test series.

The events were particularly shocking for the England party because one of the
main targets, the Taj Mahal Palace hotel, was their base at the start of the
tour and was due to host them again for the final Test.

Whether the England players will want to return to such an unstable region once
they return home to their families is very much in the balance, but assuming
security experts do not advise any different, Hugh Morris, the managing director
of English cricket, expects the tour to resume.

"I think the players' desire will be there," he said. "It's a Test series the
players have looked forward to for a long period of time.

"It's always a huge challenge to play cricket over here in India. I would be
confident the players will come over here full of enthusiasm and wanting to do
well in the series."

LOAD-DATE: November 28, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:  Hugh Morris expects the tour to resume.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


               Copyright 2008 Midland Independent Newspapers plc
                              All Rights Reserved

                              82 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                                  Burton Mail

                            November 28, 2008 Friday

Near miss over terror attacks

BYLINE: HARRY GOTTSCHALK

LENGTH: 387 words


A CHARITY bike rider from Burton has told how he narrowly missed being caught in
the terrorist attacks in Mumbai which killed more than 100 people.  However,
Chris Blanksby says he has not heard from his travelling companions, who
remained in India after he left, since the violence began on Wednesday. The
22-year-old, who is a police community support officer (PCSO), was invited to
stay in the country for longer after completing a 10-day charity cycle ride, but
he had to travel back to England because he had no annual leave left.

The terrorists, who belonged to the Deccan Mujahedeen group, rumoured to have
links linked to al-Qaeda, targeted hospitals, hotels and petrol stations in
several wealthy areas of Mumbai. Gunmen descended on the hotel in Mumbai,
opening fire on the guests. It was reported that the attackers demanded to know
who had English or American passports during the killing spree. Special
commandos spent the night fighting the terrorists and more than 10 people are
thought to be dead at the Taj Mahal Palace. There were still reports of gunfire
at the time of going to press. PCSO Blanksby stayed in a hotel near the Taj
Mahal Palace, which was one of the worst hit places. It is popular with Western
tourists as it overlooks the city's waterfront. He has left several messages on
his friends' mobile phones and sent out e-mails, but has heard nothing from them
since the attacks. Talking to The Mail, he told of the moment he found out about
the attacks.  He said: "I had an early night last night (Wednesday) and my
cousin phoned me up and told me all about it. I've had no response from anyone -
I'm waiting for e-mails." There were 60 people in PCSO Blanksby's group between
the ages of 18 of 55. None of the others were from the Burton area. In January
this year, the group were due to visit Kenya for a similar trip, but were
instructed not to go by the British Government because of the political unrest
and ensuing violence. Despite getting out of India before the attacks, PCSO
Blanksby's trip was not without its problems. He said: "Some of the villagers
were quite hostile towards us. We were spat at and had bricks thrown at us. I
had to escort some of the women through some of the villages." The area was hit
by terrorists in July, 2006, when a series of blasts killed 187 people.

LOAD-DATE: July 9, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: BM


                    Copyright 2008 Iliffe News and Media Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                              83 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                          The Daily Telegraph (London)

                            November 28, 2008 Friday

Britons trapped in hotel siege;
* Indian commandos battle to free hostages;
* Terror attacks leave 125 dead and 300 injured

BYLINE: Gordon Rayner and Damien McElroy in Bombay

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 969  words


BRITONS were among hundreds of people still trapped inside two hotels at the
centre of the Bombay massacre last night as the full horror of the terrorist
atrocities that have claimed at least 125 lives became clear.

More than 24 hours after Islamic extremists launched devastating gun and grenade
attacks on Western targets - with a British tycoon among those killed - soldiers
were still fighting to free more than 200 people either held hostage or hiding
in their rooms.

They included Mark Abell, a British lawyer who remained "holed up'' in his room
and spoke of his fears that the terrorists might "come and get me'' if they
discovered his exact location.

The authorities blamed militants from Pakistan-ruled Kashmir for the bloodbath,
which left 125 dead and at least 327 injured after simultaneous attacks on at
least seven targets in Bombay.

Indian officials said the terrorists had "pretended'' to be Indians, but that
one who was captured yesterday appeared to be from Pakistan.  A newspaper said
that three captured militants had confessed to being members of the
Pakistan-based Lashkar-e-Taiba group.

Officials said the death toll was likely to rise once burnt-out rooms in the
hotels could be checked for bodies. Bombay's central railway station, a
hospital, police station, cinema and a Jewish centre were among other targets
attacked by the terrorists.

Early today security officials said that 39 hostages had been freed from the
Oberoi hotel in a commando raid and that a "mopping up operation'' was close to
ending the siege there. Two large explosions were heard at a Jewish centre,
where a rabbi and an unknown number of Israeli nationals were being held by at
least one gunman.

The terrorists travelled by boat to the city's peninsula before fanning out in
several dinghies and landing on the shore close to their predetermined targets.
The killers specifically targeted British and American visitors when they
attacked the Oberoi and Taj Mahal hotels.

Receptionists were ordered to give them a list of the names and room numbers of
all British and US guests and hostages were forced to declare their
nationalities.

At least five Britons are being treated in hospital after they were injured in
the shootings, and many more were feared to be among those still inside the
hotels.

As Indian commandos fought their way through the corridors of the Taj Mahal and
the Oberoi - both of which had been set on fire by the terrorists - Mr Abell,
from London, said he had barricaded his door and was "hunkering down for the
long term''.

He said: "I'm holed up in my room, with furniture blockading the door.

"The British consul knows I'm here, and I've been told to sit tight and wait.
Whether that will be for an hour, a day, a week, nobody knows.''

The British man killed in the attacks was named as Andreas Liveras, 73. He was
gunned down moments after he phoned the BBC from inside the Taj Mahal hotel to
give an account of the terrorist attacks.

Before he was hit, Mr Liveras, who built a  pounds 315 million fortune from his
luxury yacht charter business, described how he had just sat down for dinner at
the Taj Mahal when the shooting began.

"We heard the machine gunfire outside in the corridor,'' he said. "We hid
ourselves under the table and then they switched all the lights off.

"But the machine guns kept going, and they took us into the kitchen, and from
there into a basement, before we came up into a salon.

"There must be more than a thousand people here. Nobody comes in this room and
nobody goes out, and we really don't know. Everybody is just living on their
nerves.''

Two retired teachers from Hexham in Northumberland were among those shot in the
first of the attacks, in the Oberoi's Café Leopold, at 9.30pm local time (4pm
GMT) on Wednesday.

Michael Murphy, 59, was shot in the ribs and was in intensive care after
surgeons removed his spleen.

His wife Diane, 58, who was shot in the foot, said: "It was mayhem. There were
so many casualties. It was carnage.

There were obviously people injured and others who were dead.''

Mrs Murphy said there were at least 100 people in the café when the shooting
began.

"All of a sudden there was automatic gunfire,'' she said. "The whole place fell
apart.

"It was tremendously loud. My husband and I were hit, as were lots of people.
Every- body was down on the ground.''

Alan Jones, from South Wales, was staying at the Oberoi Hotel on business when
it was attacked.

He said: "We took the lift to the lobby and heard bangs as the door opened.  Two
Japanese men riding with us got out, but immediately signalled for us to go back
in the lift.

"As they got back in, a bullet hit one of the Japanese men in the back of the
leg. Flesh and blood splattered everywhere.''

Hugh Brown, who was staying at the Taj Mahal, took refuge in a library area with
a large group of people, one of whom turned out to be a terrorist. He told Sky
News: "We were let out at one point. There was a gunman who had been in among us
in the room for the best part of the evening.

"He pretended to be one of us in the room. When he got out with us, he started
shooting some of the people as they were leaving the room.''

One of the terrorists was quoted on Indian television saying the purpose of the
hostage-taking was to secure the release of all "mujahideen'' held in Indian
prisons.

Manmohan Singh, India's Prime Minister, said the attacks were "intended to
create a sense of panic by choosing high-profile targets and indiscriminately
killing foreigners''.

David Miliband, the Foreign Secretary, said the assaults bore some signs of
al-Qaeda but it was too early to say whether it was behind them.

"It is very premature to start talking about links to al-Qaeda,'' he said. "Some
of the names of groups being circulated are not al-Qaeda affiliates, but that
cannot be taken as a definitive view.''

LOAD-DATE: November 28, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2008 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              84 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                            Daily Post (North Wales)

                            November 28, 2008 Friday
                                 Mersey Edition

Indian exiles express shock at terror attacks

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 313 words


THE reverberations of the attacks in Mumbai have been felt in Liverpool as
organisations with links to the city have expressed their shock.

Heavily-armed terrorists apparently targeting British and American citizens
killed 101 people and wounded hundreds more in coordinated attacks.

Liverpool's Indian community settled in the city in the early 1900s, but it is
in recent years that trading links have come to the fore again.

Indian industrial giant Tata owns Jaguar Land Rover and Cheshire chemicals firm
Brunner Mond, as well as steel company Corus and Tetley Tea, while Wirralbased
Typhoo Tea is owned by Apeejay Surrendra Group.

In 2008, it is expected there will be pounds 8bn of bilateral trade between the
UK and India, making it one of the most significant markets outside Europe.

A spokesman for the UK-India Business Council said: "The UK and India have
strong historical ties and we are focused on building even stronger trade and
business links with India.

"By attacking the financial capital of India, the terrorists are trying to
undermine the stability of the nation. They must not win and we must continue to
strengthen our partnerships with India."

Hindu Dr Shiv Pande, secretary of the Indo- British Association in the North and
a GP in Edge Hill, also condemned the attacks. He said: "These atrocities are
inhumane and diabolical.

"They have taken the lives of innocent people. If the culprits have political
issues, they should talk about it, and if they claim the motivation is religion
they are hijacking the Muslim faith. My Muslim friends would be horrified."

A spokesman for Liverpool's Anglican Diocese conveyed the church's concerns and
wishes.

"We are shocked and appalled at the attacks in Mumbai. Our prayers go to those
caught up in these events and, in particular, those from Liverpool who are
concerned for relatives and loved ones."

LOAD-DATE: November 28, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:  Indian army soldiers take up positions near the Oberoi hotel, in
Mumbai, India

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2008 Trinity Mirror plc
                              All Rights Reserved

                              85 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                            Daily Post (North Wales)

                            November 28, 2008 Friday
                              North Wales Edition

Cricket: England head home after terror attacks

BYLINE: MYLES HODGSON

SECTION: SPORT; Pg. 38

LENGTH: 786 words


ENGLAND have stood firm under pressure from Indian cricket chiefs and decided to
return home to monitor the security situation following the terrorist attacks in
Mumbai.

The Board of Control for Cricket in India were keen for the tourists to remain
in the country and complete the remainder of their seven-week tour despite the
terrorist incidents in Mumbai, which killed over 100 people and have injured
over 250 more.

They wanted England to fulfil their three-day warm-up match in Baroda, which
begins on December 5, followed by the two-Test series starting in Ahmedabad on
December 11 although the final Test scheduled for Mumbai will be moved.

With delicate discussions still on-going about the release of England players
for the Indian Premier League and the reciprocal arrangement with India's
leading stars and their availability for the English Premier League in 2010, it
would have been understandable if they had stayed to placate the BCCI.

But after a day of intensive discussions between England, the BCCI, the players
and the England and Wales Cricket Board back home in London they decided to fly
home today with a view to returning for the Test series providing security
assurances are in place.

The two boards had earlier agreed to postpone the two remaining one-day
internationals in Guwahati tomorrow and Delhi on Tuesday with the players'
concerns about the hostage drama unfolding at the Taj Mahal Palace hotel - where
they had stayed only two weeks earlier and were due to base themselves for the
final Test - also sealing their early return home.

"We're going to London tomorrow to re-evaluate the situation but the Test series
is still in place," explained Hugh Morris, the managing director of English
cricket.

"To get back to a home environment will be a good thing.

"It's been an awful tragedy that this has happened in Mumbai and the players
have felt very close to it because they have been in the hotel and in the rooms
and the restaurant only a couple of weeks ago and getting back home for a few
days will serve them well.

"Clearly where England go to play cricketwe have security advice,we act on that
security advice and if that says it is safe and secure for players and
management to go that is what we will do.

"This is a tragic event and the players feel desperately sorry for all that are
caught up in the events in Mumbai.

They're very disturbed by it as we all are." England had considered other
options to their temporary return, including basing themselves in Dubai until
the security situation improved, or cancelling the whole tour.

But after many hours of discussions, including being briefed by team security
expert Reg Dickason, they have decided on a temporary flight home even if the
likelihood of England's return to India before Christmas looks bleak.

The England squad will now fly over to Bangalore today to link up with the
Performance Programme Squad and they will all fly to London from there to await
talks between the ECB and BCCI.

All Indian Cricket League matches and the Champions League Twenty20 tournament
have already been postponed because of security fears butBCCI vice-president
LalitModi remains confident the Test series will go ahead.

"Hugh is absolutely right, the home environment will calm the players down," he
said. "We're very, very happy the (England) players are going home and will be
back.

"I want to reiterate, we are changing the second Test match. It will take place
in another city, but definitely not Mumbai."

Morris echoed Modi's views, perhaps in an attempt to garner his support for the
delicate IPL negotiations in the coming weeks, by also underlining his belief
England would return.

"I think the players' desire will be there," addedMorris. "It's a Test series
the players have looked forward to for a long period of time.

"It's always a huge challenge to play cricket over here in India. I would be
confident the players will come over here full of enthusiasm and wanting to do
well in the series."

Whether they return or not, however, their decision to return home also gained
support from India captain Mahendra Singh Dhoni, who stressed: "We are
entertainers but we should not be entertaining at a time like this.

"I was up all night watching the pictures on television apart from one hour and
it was a big shock. Normally they have intelligence about these sort of things
but this was a total surprise."

SUMMARIES: Second Test Centurion Park Bangladesh 250 v South Africa 357-5 TODAY:
(08.30 unless stated) Second Test (day 1 of 5) Adelaide: Australia v New Zealand
(00.00) Second Test (day 3 of 5) Centurion Park: South Africa v Bangladesh
Fourth ODI Harare Sports Club: Zimbabwe v Sri Lanka (07.30)

LOAD-DATE: November 28, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:  Kevin Pietersen

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2008 Trinity Mirror plc
                              All Rights Reserved

                              86 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                                Echo (NewsQuest)

                            November 28, 2008 Friday

Southend Indian community shocked over Mumbai terrorist attacks

SECTION: SOUTHEND NEWS (SOUTHEND NEWS)

LENGTH: 210 words


MEMBERS of Southend's Indian community have spoken out against the shocking
terrorist attacks which are taking place in Mumbai.

The attacks began late on Wednesday evening when gunmen took over the Oberoi
Trident and Taj Mahal Palace hotels and a Jewish outreach centre. There were
explosions and rebels opened fire on crowds of people at a number of locations
across Mumbai.

Unconfirmed reports state the death toll as 130, members of the police have also
lost their lives and the terrorists are still holding hostages at the Taj Mahal
Hotel.

Harish Panchall, owner of Station News in Shoebury, said: "I was shocked when I
heard the news because these people are not thinking they are just killing. This
is wrong in my opinion, these militant people have been brainwashed into killing
innocent people."

Mr Dilip Shah, 53, is a sub-postmaster from Southend, he said: "I think the
world has been taken by surprise by these attacks and my main concern is for the
tourists. Obviously it's very frightening, it's very bad."

Anyone who is concerned about friends or relatives who may be affected by the
attacks can contact the Foreign Office on 0207 008 0000.

Do you have relatives or friends caught up in the attacks? Call the Echo on
01702 321159 to tell us your story.

LOAD-DATE: November 29, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2008 NewsQuest Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              87 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                         The Evening Standard (London)

                            November 28, 2008 Friday
                                   B Edition

MUMBAI SIEGE GUNMEN ARE FROM BRITAIN;
Yorkshire link to India terror attacks .. Yard experts help to identify killers
..

BYLINE: JUSTIN DAVENPORT, RASHID RAZAQ

SECTION: Pg. 1

LENGTH: 666 words


AT LEAST two British-born Pakistanis are among the Mumbai terrorists, it was
revealed today.

According to one source, as many as seven of the gunmen may have British
connections and some may have come from the Leeds and Bradford area.

Two Britons were captured with eight other terrorists after commandos stormed
two hotels and a Jewish centre to free hostages. The death toll mounted to 143
people this morning after 24 bodies were found in the Oberoi hotel. Later,
Israeli rescue service Zaka reported that all the remaining nine hostages in the
Jewish centre were believed to be dead. More than 327 people have been injured.

Minister Vilasrao Deshmukh revealed that up to 25 terrorists were responsible
for the bomb blasts and shootings that targeted tourists and foreign interests.

Detectives from Scotland Yard's Counter Terrorism Command were in Mumbai today
liaising with the Indian authorities.

One security official told the Standard: " There is growing concern about
British involvement in the attacks." Images of some of the gunmen were being
studied by the security services in an effort to identify them.

The Indian TV channel NDTV quoted government sources as saying two of the
terrorists were British.

Indian authorities have not released any details about the two Britons and the
Foreign Office has refused to confirm Indian television reports.

Gordon Brown said today it was " too early" to reach any conclusions about
British involvement.

Seven terrorists have been confirmed as killed by Indian special forces.

Gun battles were still continuing today with stand- offs at the three buildings.

Between six and eight Islamic militants, professing to be part of the Deccan
Mujahideen, were believed to be still holed up, spread between the five- star
Taj Mahal Palace and Oberoi Trident hotels and the Nariman House Jewish centre .

Three terrorists arrested at the Taj Mahal hotel have been officially identified
as a Pakistani national and two Indians.

Another of the detainees is reported to be a Mauritian national.

Indian commandos have recovered credit cards and the militants' ID cards as well
as seizing a vast arsenal of grenades, AK- 47 magazines, shells and knives.

Security sources have told the Standard that the attack is believed to be al
Qaeda- linked and it is known that dozens of British- born Pakistanis have
travelled to Pakistan in recent years to train in its camps.

One source said recently: " The camps are full and many of the people inside are
Brits." Met officers were also interviewing passengers returning from Mumbai as
they stepped off planes at Heathrow Airport.

Around 100 hostages have been released from the Oberoi Trident in rescue
operations while more than 400 people were brought out last night from the Taj
Mahal hotel, where commandos were still fighting cat- andmouse battles with a
lone gunmen today. The death toll was expected to rise as troops battled their
way the hotel. Soldiers said they found 30 bodies in just one hallway.

It has been confirmed that 24 bodies have been discovered at the Oberoi hotel,
which is now back under the control of the authorities.

One security official said eight foreigners were known to have died, among them
one Briton, three Germans, a Japanese, Canadian and Australian.

At the Oberoi hotel, groups of captives were rushed out and put in waiting cars,
buses and ambulances.

Among those released were a group of about 20 airline workers, including seven
South African crew members and seven Lufthansa staff. As they came out some
carried luggage with Canadian flags, and two women were dressed in black abayas,
traditional Muslim women's garments.

.. A university student from London today admitted trying to get to Afghanistan
from Turkey to join mujahideen militants fighting coalition forces.

Mohammed Abushamma, 20, from Tufnell Park, pleaded guilty at the Old Bailey to
preparing acts of terrorism between 17 March and 18 April this year.

He was remanded on conditional bail and will be sentenced on a date to be
fixed..

LOAD-DATE: November 28, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Assassin: one of the terrorists who attacked Mumbai. London security
services believe many of them were British Taking cover: security forces outside
the Taj Mahal hotel where they fought running battles with gunmen. Below left, a
commando drops on to the Jewish centre during a raid in which they blasted a
hole in the building

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2008 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              88 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                         The Evening Standard (London)

                            November 28, 2008 Friday
                                   C Edition

MUMBAI SIEGE GUNMEN ARE FROM BRITAIN;
(1) Yorkshire link to India terror attacks (2) Yard experts help to identify
killers (3) 'Pakistan terror camps are full of young Brits'

BYLINE: JUSTIN DAVENPORT, RASHID RAZAQ

SECTION: Pg. 1

LENGTH: 677 words


AT LEAST two British-born Pakistanis are among the Mumbai terrorists, it was
revealed today.

According to one source, as many as seven of the gunmen may have British
connections and some may have come from the Leeds and Bradford area.

Two Britons were captured with eight other terrorists after commandos stormed
two hotels and a Jewish centre to free hostages. The death toll mounted to 150
this evening after 24 bodies were found in the Oberoi hotel.

The victims included two Americans. More than 370 people have been injured in
the attacks.

Indian commandos emerged from the Jewish centre with rifles raised in an
apparent sign of victory after a day-long siege but inside were five dead
hostages alongside the bodies of two gunmen.

Minister Vilasrao Deshmukh revealed that up to 25 terrorists were responsible
for the bomb blasts and shootings that targeted tourists and foreign interests
the city. Detectives from Scotland Yard's Counter Terrorism Command were in
Mumbai today liaising with the Indian authorities. One security official told
the Standard: "There is growing concern about British involvement in the
attacks."

Images of some of the gunmen were being studied by the security services in an
effort to identify them. The Indian TV channel NDTV quoted government sources as
saying two of the terrorists were British. Indian authorities have not released
any details about the two Britons and the Foreign Office has refused to confirm
Indian television reports. Gordon Brown said today it was "too early" to reach
any conclusions about British involvement.

By this evening at least nine gunmen had been killed, one had been arrested and
as many as six were still in the Taj Mahal Hotel, said a senior state official.
After hours of intermittent gunfire and explosions at the Taj Mahal hotel,
Indian forces began launching grenades. One terrorist was believed to be holed
up inside a ballroom. Commandos had killed the two last gunmen inside the nearby
Oberoi earlier in the day. Three terrorists arrested at the Taj Mahal hotel have
been officially identified as a Pakistani national and two Indians.

Another of the detainees is reported to be a Mauritian national. Indian
commandos have recovered credit cards and the militants' ID cards as well as
seizing a vast arsenal of grenades, AK-47 magazines, shells and knives. Security
sources have told the Standard that the attack is believed to be al Qaeda-linked
and it is known that dozens of British-born Pakistanis have travelled to
Pakistan in recent years to train in its camps. One source said recently: "The
camps are full and many of the people inside are Brits." Met officers were also
inter- THE family of the Taj Mahal Hotel's manager have been killed in the
attack.

Karambir Kang was not in the hotel when the terrorists stormed the building. His
wife Neeti and sons Uday, 14, and Samar, five, were shot dead in the staff
quarters. Around 100 hostages have been released from the Oberoi Trident in
rescue operations while more than 400 people were brought out last night from
the Taj Mahal hotel.

Soldiers said they found 30 bodies in just one hallway. One security official
said 22 foreigners had been killed among them the two Americans, a Briton, three
Germans, a Japanese, Canadian and Australian. At the Oberoi hotel, groups of
captives were rushed out and put in waiting cars, buses and ambulances.

Among those released were a group of about 20 airline workers, including seven
South African crew members and seven Lufthansa staff. As they came out some
carried luggage with Canadian flags, and two women were dressed in black abayas,
traditional Muslim women's garments.

A university student from London today admitted trying to get to Afghanistan
from Turkey to join mujahideen militants fighting coalition forces. Mohammed
Abushamma, 20, from Tufnell Park, pleaded guilty at the Old Bailey to preparing
acts of terrorism between 17 March and 18 April this year. He was remanded on
conditional bail and will be sentenced on a date to be fixed.

MUMBAI MASSACRE PAGES 2, 3, 4, 5, 18& 19, SPORT

LOAD-DATE: November 29, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Assassin: one of the terrorists who attacked Mumbai. London security
services believe many of them were British

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2008 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              89 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                  Guardian.com

                               November 28, 2008

Mumbai terror attacks: Indian troops storm last militant hideouts

LENGTH: 751 words


Indian soldiers stormed the last hideouts of Islamist militants in Mumbai this
morning as the bloody confrontations that have left at least 120 dead and
hundreds injured moved into their second day.

Masked Indian commandos stormed the Jewish centre where Islamist gunmen were
still holding hostages. Soldiers, dropped onto the roof by helicopter, kept up a
steady stream of fire as the assault moved through the building.

The violence, which began late on Wednesday night, was still breaking out across
the city this morning. Explosions were heard at the Taj Mahal hotel, despite
claims from Indian army commanders last night that it had been cleared of
terrorists.

Over 24 hours, gangs of heavily armed young men attacked two luxury hotels, a
hospital, a popular restaurant and a railway station. Trapped by gunfire and
explosions were bankers, businessmen and women, actors and members of an
ultra-orthodox Jewish group - many of whom were freed by security forces.

By the early hours of the morning the mayhem had left India's financial
capital's skyline smoking, and blood on the streets. Mumbai, a metropolis of 19
million people, had been reduced to a ghost town - with many international firms
cancelling travel and closing offices.

World leaders were quick to condemn the attacks. The chorus was led by the US
president-elect, Barack Obama, who vowed the US would work with "India and
nations around the world to root out and destroy terrorist networks".

Recently improved relations between Pakistan and India were coming under strain
after the Indian prime minister pointed the finger of blame at "external
forces".

Two Scotland Yard officers were on their way to Mumbai to help the authorities.

It was clear that foreign targets, especially those from the US and UK, had been
singled out. One of the first targets was the Cafe Leopold, a famous hangout
popular with foreign tourists.

The attackers also picked off British and US citizens in the luxury hotels.
Television pictures showed how bloody and brazen the attackers were: two men
were shown shooting at random as they drove through streets in a stolen police
jeep.

Late last night it appeared that the sieges at the Taj Mahal and Oberoi hotels
were coming to a close as dozens of hostages made it out into empty Mumbai
streets.

Many hotel guests simply barricaded themselves into their rooms and hoped for
the best. Yasmin Wong, a CNN employee who was staying in the Taj, told the news
network that she hid under her bed for several hours after she was awoken by
gunfire. She said she received a phone call from the hotel telling her to turn
her light off, put a wet towel by the door and stay in her room until she was
told otherwise.

The Foreign Office confirmed that one Briton, 73-year-old Andreas Liveras, had
died in the attack. A shipping tycoon, he was shot dead apparently moments after
speaking to the BBC from a basement.

An Australian, a Japanese woman, an Italian and a German also died. In the wake
of the attacks, the US, Britain and Australia have advised their citizens to
defer travel to Mumbai until further notice. But the majority of those killed
were ordinary Indians as they boarded trains and ate meals. At least 315 people
were injured.

India's prime minister, Manmohan Singh, blamed militants based in India's
neighbours, a reference to Pakistan, raising fears that the peace process
between the two nuclear rivals would stall.

"It is evident that the group which carried out these attacks, based outside the
country, had come with single-minded determination to create havoc in the
commercial capital of the country," he said in a televised address. Singh said
New Delhi would "take up strongly" the use of neighbours' territory to launch
attacks on India. "The well-planned and well-orchestrated attacks, probably with
external linkages, were intended to create a sense of terror by choosing
high-profile targets."

Pakistan's president, Asif Ali Zardari, condemned the attack as "detestable".
However, Indian authorities claimed that the evidence of Pakistan's involvement
was building. There were early allegations that one militant was from Pakistan.
The Indian navy also intercepted two Pakistani merchant vessels off the coast of
Gujarat. It is believed that some of the terrorists arrived in Mumbai on
Wednesday night by boat, and the navy was last night searching for the ship that
dropped them there.

Mumbai is no stranger to terrorism: two years ago 187 people died in
synchronised bomb attacks on the city's rail system.

LOAD-DATE: November 28, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


      Copyright  2008  Guardian Unlimited (© Guardian Newspapers Limited)
                              All rights reserved

                              90 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                  Guardian.com

                               November 28, 2008

BBC and bloggers rise to the occasion during Mumbai terror attacks

LENGTH: 347 words


To keep up to date with the Mumbai attacks on television after returning home
last night I started off on BBC News 24 at about 9.30pm. I was greeted by a
report from the South Asia correspondent, Damian Grammaticus.

At 10pm, I switched to BBC1 and up popped Damian again, firstly to present a
prepared report and then to speak live to Huw Edwards in the studio. At the end
of the bulletin I tuned in to BBC2's Newsnight, and in no time at all Damian was
introduced yet again.

He was, on every occasion, polished and professional, and he avoided falling
into the trap of speculating about things he didn't know. He was the model of a
well trained BBC reporter. It was a fine piece of work.

He seemed to be alone on the ground (except for a camera operator, of course -
and I note that Ben Brown turned up this morning). Meanwhile, there were several
eyewitnesses to the drama providing minute-by-minute reports through blogs.

According to a Reuters report, bloggers were quick to upload pictures, many of
which can be seen on Flickr (examples here, here and here).

Some bloggers provided running descriptions and commentaries from near the
action, while others vented emotions. "I've been tweeting almost all night...
Upset and angry and bereft," wrote Dina Mehta. She has hugely detailed
information on her blog.

Twitter saw intense activity yesterday. Within five seconds (at 07.48 GMT), 80
messages were posted. Posts included offers of help for the media and updates on
the situation. "One terrorist has jumped from Nariman house building to Chabad
house - group of police commandos have arrived on scene," one tweeter wrote.

Several local Indian news channels were reported to have carried a live feed of
the twitter updates on the Mumbai attacks. Trying to aid India's weak public
services, Mumbai Met Blogs, posted the telephone numbers of hospitals on its
website, encouraging readers to donate blood.

Blogs such as Mumbai Help offered advice to those with friends and family in the
city.

Between them, live TV coverage and live blogs ensured that we could follow the
story in real time.

LOAD-DATE: November 28, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


      Copyright  2008  Guardian Unlimited (© Guardian Newspapers Limited)
                              All rights reserved

                              91 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                  Guardian.com

                               November 28, 2008

Mumbai terror attacks: Indian troops storm last militant hideouts

LENGTH: 834 words


Indian commandos have blown a hole in the outer wall of the complex housing a
Mumbai Jewish centre as the battle against the militants intensifies.

The building was cloaked with thick smoke after the blast, television pictures
showed, as commandos engaged in what appeared to be a final offensive to free
the hostages inside.

A commando team was dropped by helicopter on to the roof early this morning as
the violence that has left at least 143 dead and hundreds injured moved into its
third day.

The gunmen, thought to number between three and seven, are believed to be
isolated on the third and fourth floor of the five-storey building. It is feared
they are holding up to six hostages, including the rabbi and his wife.

There were also further explosions at the Taj Mahal hotel, one of the two luxury
hotels seized by militants in the violence that began late on Wednesday night.
Fresh assaults are underway in an attempt to flush out the remaining militants.

Gunmen in the hotel are thought to be using hostages as human shields on a
darkened, upper floor where the power supply has been cut. Smoke was seen
billowing from the roof.

At least one militant was believed to be inside the ballroom, security official
ML Kumawat said.

The Indian army said two militants were killed at the Oberoi hotel - now said to
be in the control of the Indian commandos - and a total of nine shot dead in the
city. As many as 25 terrorists may have taken part in the assault.

The overall death toll is expected to rise further. Neville Bharucha, from the
Parsi ambulance service, said bodies inside the hotel could not be recovered
because terrorists were still at large.

"There are dead bodies in the old Taj building," he said, as he stood outside
the hotel. "They are all lying there, they are the guests. We can't recover the
bodies because of the terrorists. They are still holding human shields"

Near the Mumbai police commissioner's office fresh fighting broke out. Two young
schoolgirls died in the incident, according to hospital sources.

The mayhem has left the skyline of India's financial capital smoking. Mumbai, a
metropolis of 19 million people, has been reduced to a ghost town - with many
international firms cancelling travel and closing offices.

World leaders were quick to condemn the attacks. The US president-elect, Barack
Obama, vowed the US would work with "India and nations around the world to root
out and destroy terrorist networks".

Recently improved relations between Pakistan and India were under strain after
the Indian prime minister, Manmohan Singh, pointed the finger of blame at
"external forces". He said New Delhi would "take up strongly" the use of
neighbours' territory to launch attacks on India.

India's external affairs minister, Pranab Mukherjee, was more pointed:
"According to preliminary information, some elements in Pakistan are responsible
for Mumbai terror attacks," he asserted. "Proof cannot be disclosed at this
time."

One captured militant was reported to be a Pakistani national. The accusations
raised fears that the peace process between the two nuclear rivals would stall.

The Indian navy also intercepted two Pakistani merchant vessels off the coast of
Gujarat. It is believed that some of the terrorists arrived in Mumbai on
Wednesday night by boat, and the navy was last night searching for the ship that
dropped them there.

Pakistan's president, Asif Ali Zardari, condemned the attack as "detestable". He
has agreed to send the head of the country's Inter-Services Intelligence (ISI)
to India to share information on the attacks, following a request by Singh.

Two Scotland Yard officers were on their way to Mumbai to help the authorities.
The Foreign Office said it was investigating claims that some of attackers were
British-born Pakistanis.

It was clear that foreign targets, especially those from the US and UK, had been
singled out. One of the first targets was the Cafe Leopold, a famous hangout
popular with foreign tourists.

The attackers also picked off British and US citizens in the luxury hotels.
Television pictures showed how bloody and brazen the attackers were: two men
were shown shooting at random as they drove through streets in a stolen police
jeep.

Many hotel guests simply barricaded themselves into their rooms and hoped for
the best. Yasmin Wong, a CNN employee who was staying in the Taj, told the news
network that she hid under her bed for several hours after she was awoken by
gunfire. She said she received a phone call from the hotel telling her to turn
her light off, put a wet towel by the door and stay in her room until she was
told otherwise.

The Foreign Office confirmed that one Briton, 73-year-old Andreas Liveras, had
died in the attack. A shipping tycoon, he was shot dead apparently moments after
speaking to the BBC from a basement.

Two Australians, a Japanese woman, an Italian, and three Germans also died. But
the majority of those killed were ordinary Indians as they boarded trains and
ate meals. At least 315 people were injured.

LOAD-DATE: November 28, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


      Copyright  2008  Guardian Unlimited (© Guardian Newspapers Limited)
                              All rights reserved

                              92 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                  London Lite

                            November 28, 2008 Friday
                                  1ST Edition

'He looked at me... he pulled the trigger';
(1) INDIA'S 9-11 (2) THE FULL HORRORS OF THE MUMBAI TERROR ATTACKS EMERGE TODAY
AS COMMANDOS GO IN AND THE DEATH TOLL MOUNTS (3) Survivor tells of the moment he
stared gunman in the face

BYLINE: RICHARD ORANGE

SECTION: Pg. 4

LENGTH: 476 words


A BRITISH survivor of the Mumbai massacre today described how he escaped almost
certain death when heavily armed terrorists stormed a crowded café.

Speaking from his hospital bed, Harnish Patel, a 29-year-old chartered surveyor,
who was shot in the chest and leg, said he had been lucky.

"The guy just took one look at me and showered the whole side of the bar," he
said. "He just let loose.

Luckily he didn't keep his finger down because if he did, I'd be gone.'' Mr
Patel, who was in the Leopold Café in the Colaba district, said that although
the man next to him had been "creamed" by the gunman, he himself had just felt a
"tingly feeling".

"I think it was the shock," he said. "It just seemed a tingly feeling. I knew
that he'd hit me in this leg. I thought 'stay, don't move'." Another survivor
told Mr Patel to stay calm and tied a piece of material around his leg to stem
the flow of blood. Taken to the hospital, he saw "bodies everywhere".

Mr Patel lived in Putney before moving to Hong Kong last year and was holidaying
in Mumbai.

He had gone to Leopold's with a British friend. The café, popular with tourists
and backpackers, is believed to have been the gunmen's first target.

"I was out near the back of the bar so I moved further back for cover and he
kept showering us with shots," Mr Patel said. "At one point everyone thought he
had gone, because it was quiet. Everyone just made for cover, some made attempts
to run. The guy next to me was saying 'stay quiet, stay quiet, don't do
anything. He might come back'. And five or 10 minutes later, he came back."
"When he off-loaded on me, it was bad, but the guy next to me was completely
creamed. His face was completely impaled. One lady an Australian was really
screaming, She was hysterical.''

As he lay wounded, Mr Patel had a good view of the gunman, but only remembered
one thing: "He had a blue T-shirt wrapped around his gun, perhaps to protect
him." Mr Patel described the JJ Hospital, as "just hectic". "People just ran
around, trying to secure everyone, looking for relatives and family," he said.
"There were bodies everywhere." Meanwhile it was revealed today that the British
tycoon killed in the attacks was frantically texting his son in the UK as he
came under fire.

Andreas Liveras, 73, estimated to be worth £315m and the owner of some of the
world's most expensive yachts, died from multiple gunshot wounds at the Taj
Mahal hotel. "He was having his meal when the terrorists started shooting,"
family friend Michael Yiakoumi, editor of a "Who's Who" for Greek Cypriots in
the UK, said.

"Staff moved him into another room and from there he was texting his son and
Dion was texting him.

"They were messaging each other and then it all just stopped." A family
spokesman said: "It is a really tough time. They are finding it hard to cope.
What happened to Andreas is only just sinking in."

LOAD-DATE: November 28, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: (1) Shot by terrorists: Mr Liveras (2) "I was lucky": Harnish Patel (3)
One more time: Britney Spears last night in an outfit just like Madges (4)
Devastation: a survivor at the Oberoi Trident Hotel

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2008 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              93 of 500 DOCUMENTS




                                  M2 PressWIRE

                            November 28, 2008 Friday

World Travel & Tourism Council: WTTC Condemns Mumbai Terrorist Attacks

LENGTH: 379 words


RDATE:28112008

London, UK -- The Members of the World Travel & Tourism Council (WTTC) are
appalled and saddened to learn of the continuing violence in Mumbai following
terrorist attacks on India's commercial and financial capital. The attacks,
which began late on Wednesday night and come after a wave of bombings in India
in recent years, had killed more than 130 people by Friday morning, including at
least six foreign tourists.

The latest violence appears to have specifically targeted popular tourist sites,
including two of the city's leading hotels: the Taj Mahal Palace & Tower and the
nearby Oberoi Trident. Reports suggest that some hostages are still being held
at both hotels, as well as at other public buildings and popular tourist venues.

"We would like to express our deep sympathy to all those who have been directly
affected by the terrorist attacks," said Geoffrey J W Kent, Chairman & CEO,
Abercrombie & Kent, and Chairman of WTTC, "as well as our strong support of
India's Travel & Tourism industry at this difficult time."

Jean-Claude Baumgarten, WTTC's President & CEO, is on his way to Mumbai, where
he will meet with key industry and government leaders to offer WTTC support.

"It is important to remember at this difficult time that, however terrible, such
terrorist attacks cannot undermine the resilience of Travel & Tourism," said
Baumgarten, "an industry that cements peace and understanding.

"We are confident that, as in the past, Travel & Tourism will once again show
its capacity for recovery."

Note for Editors:

The World Travel & Tourism Council is the forum for global business leaders in
Travel & Tourism comprising the presidents, chairs and CEOs of the world's 100
foremost companies. It is the only body representing the private sector in all
parts of the Travel & Tourism industry worldwide.

2007 World Travel & Tourism Council

CONTACT: Regine Doloy, Communications Director, World Travel & Tourism Council
Tel: +44 (0)20 7481 8007 e-mail: regine.doloy@wttc.org WWW: http://www.wttc.org

((M2 Communications Ltd disclaims all liability for information provided within
M2 PressWIRE. Data supplied by named party/parties. Further information on M2
PressWIRE can be obtained at http://www.presswire.net on the world wide web.
Inquiries to info@m2.com)).

LOAD-DATE: November 28, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSWIRE

JOURNAL-CODE: M2P


                      Copyright 2008 Normans Media Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              94 of 500 DOCUMENTS




                                  M2 PressWIRE

                            November 28, 2008 Friday

United Nations: Security Council Press Statement On Terrorist Attacks In Mumbai

LENGTH: 314 words


RDATE:28112008

The following Security Council press statement on the terrorist attacks in
Mumbai was issued on Thursday, 27 November, by President of the Council Jorge
Urbina ( Costa Rica):

The members of the Security Council condemned in the strongest terms the
terrorist attacks in Mumbai that started on 26 November, which included the
taking of hostages and caused numerous deaths and injuries.

The members of the Security Council expressed their condolences to the families
of the victims and to the people and Government of India.

The members of the Security Council underlined the need to bring perpetrators,
organizers, financiers and sponsors of these reprehensible acts of terrorism to
justice and urged all States, in accordance with their obligations under
international law and relevant Security Council resolutions, to cooperate
actively with the Indian authorities in this regard.

The members of the Security Council reiterated that all acts of terrorism are
criminal and unjustifiable, regardless of their motivation, and reaffirmed the
need to combat by all means, in accordance with the Charter of the United
Nations, threats to international peace and security caused by terrorist acts.
The members of the Security Council reminded States that they must ensure that
measures taken to combat terrorism comply with all their obligations under
international law, in particular international human rights, refugee and
humanitarian law.

The members of the Security Council reiterated their determination to combat all
forms of terrorism, in accordance with its responsibilities under the Charter of
the United Nations.

((M2 Communications Ltd disclaims all liability for information provided within
M2 PressWIRE. Data supplied by named party/parties. Further information on M2
PressWIRE can be obtained at http://www.presswire.net on the world wide web.
Inquiries to info@m2.com)).

LOAD-DATE: November 28, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSWIRE

JOURNAL-CODE: M2P


                      Copyright 2008 Normans Media Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              95 of 500 DOCUMENTS




                                  M2 PressWIRE

                            November 28, 2008 Friday

IMF: IMF Managing Director Dominique Strauss-Kahn's Statement on Terrorist
Attack in Mumbai, India

LENGTH: 193 words


RDATE:27112008

Mr. Dominique Strauss-Kahn, Managing Director of the International Monetary Fund
(IMF), made the following statement today:

"On behalf of the IMF, I have offered my deepest condolences and sympathy to
Prime Minister Manmohan Singh and the people of India for the terrorist attack
in Mumbai. Our sympathies are with the families of those innocent people who
lost their lives in the tragedy. I want to add my voice to the others in
condemning this atrocious attack, which is a reminder to the international
community that terrorism remains a threat. As the head of a collaborative
international institution, I must stress the IMF will continue do its part in
the effort to counter terrorism."

CONTACT: Public Affairs, IMF External Relations Department Tel: +1 202 623 7300
Fax: +1 202 623 6278 Media Relations, IMF External Relations Department Tel: +1
202 623 7100 Fax: +1 202 623 6772

((M2 Communications Ltd disclaims all liability for information provided within
M2 PressWIRE. Data supplied by named party/parties. Further information on M2
PressWIRE can be obtained at http://www.presswire.net on the world wide web.
Inquiries to info@m2.com)).

LOAD-DATE: November 28, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSWIRE

JOURNAL-CODE: M2P


                      Copyright 2008 Normans Media Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              96 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                   The Mirror

                            November 28, 2008 Friday
                                 3 Star Edition

SPY AGENCIES WARNED OF A 'SPECTACULAR';
EXCLUSIVE MASSACRE IN MUMBAI BRITISH MILLIONAIRE IS AMONG THE 119 KILLED BY
TERRORISTS IN ATTACK ON WESTERNERS

BYLINE: BY CHRIS HUGHES SECURITY CORRESPONDENT

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 339 words


ANTI-terrorism forces were warned about the Mumbai massacre days before the
attackers struck.

Indian intelligence knew a "spectacular" was being planned by a little-known
Pakistan-based group.

Undercover agents launched a desperate hunt for the plotters but were unable to
track them down.

Just days before they intercepted telephone calls and radio conversations in
which Punjabi-sounding voices were heard talking about an attack.

A Western intelligence source said: "Indian security forces knew something big
was being planned. Details were fed into the intelligence system in India and
the US but little could be done.

"It appears that many of those involved travelled into Mumbai on the day of the
attack. That is why they could not be found."

Detectives believe the gang sailed to Mumbai on inflatable boats launched from
much bigger vessels.

The MV Alpha, which arrived from Karachi, Pakistan, was boarded yesterday by
heavily armed Indian commandos, but they did not find anything suspicious.

The Indian army claimed some of the terrorists were Pakistanis who spoke Punjabi
but pretended to be from Hyderabad in India.

But the group claiming responsibility - Deccan Mujahedeen - is unknown to
security officials.

Eleven attacks took place across the city from 9.35pm to 10.50pm in a finely
timed operation to kill as many as possible.

Security experts said it would have taken months to plan. The way in which
Westerners were targeted in multiple assaults is typical of al-Qaeda attacks,
including the September 11 outrage.

Two months ago, a truck bomb blasted the Marriott Hotel in Pakistan's capital
Islamabad killing 54 people, including three Americans and the Czech ambassador.

Wajid Hassan, Pakistan's High Commissioner in London, said: "This type of
terrorism is spreading through Pakistan, and now India, but we were all
surprised by such a largescale attack.

"It is no coincidence this happened so soon after the Marriott bombing.

"People from all countries are being paid to fight for al-Qaeda.

"This war goes beyond any nationality."

LOAD-DATE: November 28, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: MOST WANTED Abdul Qureshi masterminded the massacre; DINGHY Terrorists
sailed in; IN SIGHT Sniper aims at terrorists

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                            Copyright 2008 MGN Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              97 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                   The Mirror

                            November 28, 2008 Friday
                                 3 Star Edition

SECONDS FROM DEATH;
MASSACRE IN MUMBAI BRITISH MILLIONAIRE IS AMONG THE 119 KILLED BY TERRORISTS IN
ATTACK ON WESTERNERS

BYLINE: BY VICTORIA WARD

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 848 words


A BRIT tycoon was fatally gunned down in the Mumbai massacre moments after
telling the world of the terror, it emerged last night.

Yacht millionaire Andreas Liveras, 73, was among hundreds of guests who cowered
in fright in a building as armed fanatics went on the rampage outside.

He told the BBC by phone: "There must be more than 1,000 people here. All we
know is the bombs are next door and the hotel is shaking every time a bomb goes
off. Everybody is living on their nerves."

Mr Liveras is thought to have been shot shortly afterwards.

Last night the death toll rose to 119 as the first gruesome pictures emerged of
holidaymakers slain in the bloodbath.

More than seven Brits were thought to be among more than 300 people injured.

British High Commissioner Sir Richard Stagg said he had seen up to four wounded
Britons in hospital but warned the total "must be significantly more".

Southampton lawyer Tasneem Jeevanjee, 42, told how she feared she would die
after terrorists locked her and four other hostages in a smoke-filled room in
the burning Taj Mahal Palace hotel.

Her mum Sara said: "She couldn't breathe. She told us that at that point she was
seconds from death. She lay down on the floor to die. She thought that was it.

"Luckily one man managed to break a window. The room happened to be by a road
and they managed to escape."

Gun battles continued yesterday between Indian commandos and terror gangs holed
up in the luxury Taj Mahal Palace and Oberoi-Trident hotels and in the HQ of an
ultra-orthodox Jewish group.

Armed forces repeatedly brought hostages and corpses from the hotels and seven
were freed from the Jewish centre.

Commandos were last night still waging room-to-room battles to flush the
fanatics out of the hotels, with 200 guests still feared trapped.

Meanwhile, a terrifying picture of the massacre emerged from Brits - including
ready meals tycoon Sir Gulam Noon - who were trapped in the horror as 25
fanatics attacked seven packed sites in Mumbai.

Mr Liveras, of Nottingham, who had a pounds 315million fortune, was visiting the
Taj Mahal Palace for a meal when shooting started on Wednesday night.

He had said: "As soon as we sat at the table we heard machine gun fire in the
corridor. We hid under the table and then they switched all the lights off.

"But the machine guns kept going and they took us into the kitchen, and from
there into a basement, before we came up into a salon where we are now. The
doors are locked and we are inside.

"Hotel staff are helping us a lot, providing water and sandwiches, but nobody is
eating. People are frightened. At this moment it's very quiet. The last bomb
exploded about 45 minutes ago and it shook the hotel."

The tycoon is believed to have been shot several times just minutes later.

Holidaymaker Diane Murphy, shot in the foot, told how she cradled husband
Michael as he lost consciousness after a bullet hit him in the ribs

The retired teachers, from near Hexham in Northumberland, had been in Mumbai for
just one day when the fanatics stormed the packed Leopold Cafe.

Diane, 58, said: "All of a sudden there was automatic gunfire. My husband and I
were hit, as were lots of people. Everybody was down on the ground. The gunfire
stopped for a few seconds then started again.

"I stayed with my husband because I could tell he was seriously injured. He was
losing consciousness."

Michael, 59, had his spleen removed and is in intensive care. Sir Gulam, 72, was
in his room at the Taj Mahal Palace when a blast rocked the building.

He said: "I was about to run outside but I looked through the peephole and saw a
man with an AK47 coming down the corridor."

He rang the duty manager who warned him to blockade his door as the gunmen were
hunting Brits and Americans.

He added: "We saw two terrorists on our floor and heard gunfire just outside our
room.

It was a very frightening experience."

Tory MEP Sajjad Karim fled as gunmen burst into the hotel. He said: "There were
about 17 or 18 of us and another gunman appeared.

"He had an automatic machine gun type of weapon, pointed it straight at us and
started firing.

"People in front and to the side of me started to fall and about three or four
of us managed to get away."

There was similar chaos when gunmen burst into the Oberoi-Trident and ordered 40
people upstairs. Alex Chamberlain, who was in the hotel restaurant, said: "They
told everybody put their hands up and asked if there were any British or
Americans.

"My friend said to me, 'Don't be a hero, don't say you're British'."

Last night 14 policemen and five terrorists lay dead after the carnage. Another
11 of the gang were in custody.

World leaders were united in their condemnation. Gordon Brown said: "This is a
loss of innocent lives, people just going about their daily business. We've got
to do everything we can to help." British police, security officers, Foreign
Office personnel and Red Cross staff have flown to Mumbai.

And George Bush phoned Indian PM Manmohan Singh. The White House revealed: "He
offered support and assistance to the government as it works to restore order
and investigate these despicable acts."

LOAD-DATE: November 28, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: ON THE PROWL Fanatic in Mumbai rail station; TRAIL OF TERROR; HORROR A
woman tourist; MURDERED The bodies of a man and woman in Taj Mahal Palace hotel;
FLEEING Two people flee the shooting; GUESTS Group of Westerners are rescued
from the Taj Mahal hotel as the fighting continued; ESCAPE Man clambers down Taj
curtains; SHOT DEAD Boat tycoon Mr Liveras told BBC of ordeal; LOCKED UP Law
girl Tasneem; FLED TO SAFETY Euro MP Sajjad; INJURED Retired teacher Diane;
ROUNDED UP Alex Chamberlain

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                            Copyright 2008 MGN Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              98 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                   The Mirror

                            November 28, 2008 Friday
                                 1 Star Edition

SECONDS FROM DEATH;
MASSACRE IN MUMBAI BRITISH MILLIONAIRE IS AMONG THE 119 KILLED BY TERRORISTS IN
ATTACK ON WESTERNERS

BYLINE: BY VICTORIA WARD

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 846 words


A BRITISH tycoon was gunned down in the Mumbai massacre moments after telling
the world of the terror.

Yacht millionaire Andreas Liveras, 73, was among hundreds of guests who cowered
in fright in a building as armed fanatics went on the rampage outside.

He told the BBC by phone: "There must be more than 1,000 people here. All we
know is the bombs are next door and the hotel is shaking every time a bomb goes
off. Everybody is living on their nerves."

Mr Liveras is thought to have been shot dead shortly afterwards.

Last night the death toll rose to 119 as the first gruesome pictures emerged of
holidaymakers slain in the bloodbath.

At least seven Brits are thought to be among more than 300 people injured.

British High Commissioner Sir Richard Stagg said he had seen up to four wounded
Britons in hospital but warned the total "must be significantly more".

Southampton lawyer Tasneem Jeevanjee, 42, told how she feared she would die
after terrorists locked her and four other hostages in a smoke-filled room in
the burning Taj Mahal Palace hotel.

Her mum Sara said: "She couldn't breathe. She told us that at that point she was
seconds from death. She lay down on the floor to die. She thought that was it.

Luckily one man managed to break a window. The room happened to be by a road and
they managed to escape."

Gap-year students Jonathan Chitty and Jeremy Lewis, 18, hid in a store cupboard
on the first floor of a bar next to the Taj Mahal as terrorists opened fire
downstairs.

Jeremy, speaking last night after landing at Heathrow, said: "We had only flown
into Mumbai that afternoon and decided to watch the cricket in the bar.

"The whole of the downstairs was full so we had to get a seat upstairs - thank
God we did. Suddenly there was a burst of gunfire from downstairs and
explosions.

We were in the store cupboard for about an hour and a half."

Gun battles continued yesterday between Indian commandos and terror gangs holed
up in the luxury Taj Mahal Palace and Oberoi-Trident hotels and in the HQ of an
ultra-orthodox Jewish group.

Armed forces repeatedly brought hostages and corpses from the hotels and seven
people were freed from the Jewish centre.

Commandos were last night still waging room-to-room battles to flush the
fanatics out of the hotels, with 200 guests still feared trapped.

Meanwhile, a terrifying picture of the massacre emerged from Brits who were
trapped in the horror as 25 fanatics attacked seven packed sites in Mumbai.

Mr Liveras, of Nottingham, who had a pounds 315million fortune, was visiting the
Taj Mahal Palace for a meal when shooting started on Wednesday night.

He told the BBC at the time: "As soon as we sat at the table we heard machine
gun fire in the corridor. We hid under the table and then they switched all the
lights off.

"But the machine guns kept going and they took us into the kitchen, and from
there into a basement, before we came up into a salon where we are now. The
doors are locked and we are inside.

"Hotel staff are helping us a lot, providing water and sandwiches, but nobody is
eating. People are frightened. At this moment it's very quiet. The last bomb
exploded about 45 minutes ago and it shook the hotel." The tycoon is believed to
have been shot several times just minutes later.

Holidaymaker Diane Murphy, shot in the foot, told how she cradled husband
Michael as he lost consciousness after a bullet hit him in the ribs The retired
teachers, from Hexham in Northumberland, had been in Mumbai for just one day
when the fanatics stormed the packed Leopold Cafe.

Diane, 58, said: "All of a sudden there was automatic gunfire. My husband and I
were hit, as were lots of people. Everybody was down on the ground. The gunfire
stopped for a few seconds then started again. I stayed with my husband because I
could tell he was seriously injured. He was losing consciousness." Michael, 59,
had his spleen removed and is in intensive care.

Ready-meals tycoon Sir Gulam Noon, 72, was in his room at the Taj Mahal Palace
when a blast rocked the building. He said: "I was about to run outside but I
looked through the peephole and saw a man with an AK47 coming down the
corridor." He rang the duty manager who warned him to blockade his door as the
gunmen were hunting Brits and Americans. He added: "We saw two terrorists on our
floor and heard gunfire just outside our room. It was very frightening."

Tory MEP Sajjad Karim fled as gunmen burst into the hotel. He said: "There were
about 17 or 18 of us and another gunman appeared. He had an automatic machine
gun, pointed it at us and started firing.

"People in front and to the side of me started to fall and about three or four
of us managed to get away." There was similar chaos when gunmen burst into the
Oberoi-Trident and ordered 40 people upstairs. Alex Chamberlain, who was in the
hotel restaurant, said: "They told to everybody put their hands up and asked if
there were any British or Americans. My friend said to me, 'Don't be a hero,
don't say you're British'."

Last night 14 policemen and five terrorists lay dead after the carnage. Another
11 of the gang were in custody.

LOAD-DATE: November 28, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: ON THE PROWL Fanatic in Mumbai rail station; HORROR A woman tourist;
MURDERED The bodies of a man and woman in Taj Mahal Palace hotel; LOCKED UP Law
girl Tasneem; FLED TO SAFETY Euro MP Sajjad; TERRIFYING Two people flee the
shooting; GUESTS Group of Westerners are rescued from the Taj Mahal hotel as the
fighting continues; ESCAPE Man clambers down Taj curtains; INJURED Retired
teacher Diane; SHOT DEAD Boat tycoon Mr Liveras told BBC of ordeal; ROUNDED UP
Alex Chamberlain

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                            Copyright 2008 MGN Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              99 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                  The Northern Echo (Newsquest Regional Press)

                            November 28, 2008 Friday

Brother of former North-East businessman killed in Mumbai terror attacks

BYLINE: Andrew Douglas

SECTION: REGIONAL (NORTHERNECHO NEWS)

LENGTH: 354 words


A BRITON killed in the Mumbai terror attacks is the brother of a former
North-East businessman.

Andreas Liveras, the founder of a luxury yacht business, was pronounced dead on
arrival at St George's Hospital in Mumbai.

He is the brother of Chris Liveras, who started a family business in 1982
producing frozen cakes and gateaux in Hartlepool.

Grieving relatives in town paid tribute to Andreas.

Dion Liveras, 51, who is Andreas' nephew and one of Chris's children, said: "It
is a massive shock. We are distraught as a family."

Andreas was in a hotel in Mumbai as terrorists attacked.

Guests were sent to the basement for their protection when the five-star Taj
hotel was raided.

Less than an hour before his death, he gave a recorded telephone interview and
described the terror around him.

Andreas, 73, who emigrated to London in 1963, said: "All we know is the bombs
are next door and the hotel is shaking every time a bomb goes off.

"Everybody is just living on their nerves."

Andreas Liveras ran a chartered yacht company in Monaco where he advertised "the
world's most impressive private yachts to the charter community".

In his online biography he describes his life as a "classic rags-to-riches
tale".

In 1963, his family migrated from Cyprus to London. He began work as a
deliveryman for the Fleur De Lys bakery, operating out of a Kensington basement.

He stepped in to buy the business when the owner wanted to close it. He sold it
in 1985 to Express Dairies for an eight-figure multimillion-pound deal, when he
had turned it into one of the largest independent manufacturers of frozen
gateaux in Europe.

The sale meant he could move on to his growing passion for yachts.

Andreas Liveras is believed to be the brother of Chris Liveras who set up
bakeries in Hartlepool and Stockton in the 1980s and 1990s.

Chris Liveras came to England from Cyprus in 1956. He founded a cake business
called CDL44 in Hartlepool in 1981 when he was 44. It was later acquired by food
giants Allied Lyons in 1988.

He went on to form Livera Foods in Stockton.

Chris Liveras went to live in his native Cyprus in 1994 after his business in
Stockton crashed.

LOAD-DATE: November 28, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2008 NewsQuest Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              100 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                               South Wales Argus

                            November 28, 2008 Friday

TERROR ATTACKS: Mumbai gunmen 'British-born'

SECTION: LATEST NEWS (SWA NEWS)

LENGTH: 224 words


Some of the gunmen involved in the Mumbai attacks are believed to be
British-born Pakistanis, it was reported.

Indian news channel NDTV reported that "British citizens of Pakistani origin"
were among the attackers.

A Foreign Office spokeswoman said: "We have seen the media reports but we are
not aware of anything giving any credence to those reports at the moment."

Meanwhile, Foreign Secretary David Miliband has expressed sympathy with the
family of Andreas Liveras, the one Briton confirmed dead after terrorist attacks
in Mumbai.

Mr Miliband said: "This is a callous, inhuman and indiscriminate attack on
people of all races and all religions.

"This attack in Mumbai is an attack on all of us because democracy in India is
vibrant and because Mumbai is one of the world's most diverse cities.

"The most terrible thing is that we do have one confirmed British fatality.

"Obviously our hearts go out to the family of the victim and we are determined
to do all we can to support those who are currently in hospital."

Prime Minister Gordon Brown said the terrorist attacks were met by "shock and
outrage" around the world and pledged all possible UK support for the Indian
authorities in dealing with it.

Mr Brown spoke on Thursday after visiting staff at a Foreign Office emergency
response centre, which he said had already taken more than 800 calls.

LOAD-DATE: November 28, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2008 NewsQuest Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              101 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                               South Wales Argus

                            November 28, 2008 Friday

TERROR ATTACKS: Arrested gunmen 'of British descent'

BYLINE: South Wales Argus Newsdesk

SECTION: LATEST NEWS (SWA NEWS)

LENGTH: 118 words


Two gunmen arrested after the Mumbai massacre were of British descent, the
country's chief minister said today.

UK authorities played down reports that the terrorists included Britons as
violence in the city continued for a third day.

But Indian Chief Minister Vilasrao Deshmukh claims two British-born Pakistanis
were among eight gunmen arrested by Indian authorities, according to Associated
Press reports.

Indian authorities said Mumbai would soon be back under their full control but
confirmed the number of foreigners known to be killed in the attacks had risen
to eight.

At least 143 people - including a wealthy British businessman - were left dead
in the wave of terror that swept India's financial capital.

LOAD-DATE: November 28, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2008 NewsQuest Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              102 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                               South Wales Argus

                            November 28, 2008 Friday

TERROR ATTACKS: 'No warning' before Briton shot in Mumbai cafe

SECTION: LATEST NEWS (SWA NEWS)

LENGTH: 149 words


A 29-year-old Briton was shot three times by terrorists as he sat in a cafe in
Mumbai, his parents said today.

Harnish Patel, from Havant, Hants, is recovering in an Indian hospital today
after undergoing emergency surgery. He was shot in the ribs and legs.

Mr Patel was in India doing research for his work for an international real
estate company.

His father, Manashvi Patel, 56, said his son was in shock and could not yet walk
following the operation.

He told the Portsmouth News: "He said it was the worst thing that has ever
happened to him in his life. The gunmen gave no warning - they just walked into
the cafe and opened fire with their AK47s.

"He was lucky he was at the back because all the people in front of him were
killed. There were bodies and blood everywhere. Why did they do this?

"We have not slept at all and my daughter cannot eat because she is so worried
about her brother.''

LOAD-DATE: November 28, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2008 NewsQuest Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              103 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                      November 28, 2008 Friday 3:02 PM GMT

Mumbai attacks show the war on terror is global

BYLINE: By Con Coughlin

SECTION: BLOG

LENGTH: 224 words


There is a further dimension to Philip Johnston's excellent point about the
alleged involvement of British-born terrorists in the Mumbai attacks. Apart from
recent instances of British-born Muslims taking part in various terrorist
attacks around the world, evidence has also emerged to suggest that British-born
Muslims are actually bearing arms and fighting against British forces in
Afghanistan.

If this is true then it means that Britain is actually fighting a civil war
between those who support democracy and the rule of law and those whose only
loyalty is to their faith.

Those involved in this extremist ideology, which rejects the entire ethical and
moral foundation of Western civilisation, are, of course, a tiny minority of
Britain's Muslim population, the majority of whom fully uphold the values of our
government, society and culture.

But the Islamist extremists are a powerful and highly dangerous minority, and
the suggestion they have been responsible for the appalling violence in Mumbai
illustrates once again that the war on terror is not just confined to the more
familiar war zones, such as Iraq and Afghanistan.

This is a truly global conflict, and following the terrorists' success in
attacking a major port city such as Mumbai, who is to say they don't have the
capability to carry out a similar kind of attack against London?

LOAD-DATE: November 8, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTB


                  Copyright 2008 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              104 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                    BBC Monitoring Asia Pacific - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                           November 29, 2008 Saturday

Philippines: Military gearing up for terrorist attacks, other security threats

LENGTH: 378 words


Text of report in English by Philippine newspaper Philippine Daily Inquirer
website on 29 November

[Report by Katherine Evangelista, INQUIRER.net: "AFP preparing for any threat -
Yano; 'Hoping for best, expecting worst'"]

MANILA, Philippines - With the turmoil gripping Thailand and the carnage in
Mumbai, India, the military is preparing for terrorist attacks and other
security threats, Armed Forces of the Philippines chief of staff General
Alexander Yano said Friday.

Yano stressed, during a routine inspection of troops of the National Capital
Region Command, that there are no reported security threats to the country at
the moment.

"We are hoping for the best but we expect for the worst," Yano told reporters in
an interview.

"Let's not wait for any positive or specific report that we will be receiving in
the National Capital Region and elsewhere, but let's make it as a habit and a
part of our activities so that we can perfect any plans and implementation or
execution of our plans when the situation demands," Yano said.

He noted that the events in Thailand and India are "transnational," meaning it
could happen to any country without prior warning.

The routine inspection of troops, which was simultaneous in all headquarters of
the military's major services, was intended to evaluate the readiness of the
military to face any security threat that may arise, Yano said.

In his message to the troops, Yano noted the importance of preparedness in
dealing with any hostile situations adding that it is better for the military
and the police to be prepared so as to minimize confusion in such adverse
events.

"We can only reduce confusion and disorganization if we are prepared during
peacetime. The best time to prepare is when no hostile situation has yet
happened," Yano said.

He also urged the troops to stay focused on their constitutional mandate as
protectors of the nation and not to be distracted by prevailing political
issues.

"The mandate that is given to us very clear, let us focus on that mandate, let
us not be distracted and let us not allow ourselves to be used by any group or
any activity that is not in consonance with what is provided for in our mandate
by the constitution," Yano said.

Source: Philippine Daily Inquirer website, in English 29 Nov 08

LOAD-DATE: November 29, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2008 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              105 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                       BBC Monitoring Africa - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                           November 29, 2008 Saturday

Uganda: Official warns traders against terrorist attacks

LENGTH: 329 words


Text of report by leading privately-owned Ugandan newspaper The Daily Monitor
website on 28 November

[Report by Ephraim Kasozi, Robert Mwanje: "RDC Warns of Terrorism Threats"]

Kampala markets and hospitals could be a target for terrorists, a government
official has warned. Kampala deputy RDC [Resident District Commissioner] Rose
Kirabira has asked market traders and hoteliers to be on the look out during the
festive season, saying terrorists use the season to carry out attacks.

"Traders and hoteliers should be alert and report any suspicion to the
authorities," Ms Kirabira said. She was speaking during a security seminar for
market vendors and hotel operators in Kampala on Wednesday.

The seminar organized by the RDC and the market leadership also attracted police
officials and local council officials in charge of defence in Kampala Central
Division.

The country has been on high alert following terrorist threats. Police recently
arrested six people suspected to be involved in terrorism activities. Ms
Kirabira asked traders to check their stalls for any abandoned items before they
start work.

"You should not get excited by abandoned items in your work places but instead
report such luggage to the police," Ms Kirabira said.

She asked the local council leaders to register all foreign residents in their
respective areas for proper identification and to improve security.

Meanwhile, in an effort to keep the city clean and avoid congestion, Kampala
City Council has banned street vending.

The Town Clerk, Ms Ruth Kijjambu, said unlike before, the City Council will not
tolerate disorder in the city.

"We are concentrating on eliminating street vending and getting rid of posters
from the city. We are aware that a lot of people want to make money during the
Christmas season but let us do it within the confines of the law," Ms Kijjambu
said.

She was addressing a press conference at the City Hall on Wednesday.

Source: Daily Monitor website, Kampala, in English 28 Nov 08

LOAD-DATE: November 29, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2008 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              106 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                                The Bristol Post

                           November 29, 2008 Saturday

Bristol lawyer describes mumbai terror attacks;
A Bristol lawyer living in Mumbai has told how his family have become
"prisoners" in their own home after the terrorist attacks on the Indian city.

SECTION: Pg. 12

LENGTH: 203 words


More than 150 people are now known to have died when terrorists opened fire on
people at a number of crowded public places.

Some 14 foreign nationals, including one Briton, have been confirmed among those
killed by the terrorists, who are said to have tried to pick out British and
American passport holders.

Jake Kilcoyne-Betts lives in the south of Mumbai close to both the Oberoi and
the Taj Mahal hotels, which were the main focus of the terrorists' attacks.

Mr Kilcoyne-Betts, a lawyer with Osborne Clarke in Bristol, is currently on a
secondment in Mumbai.

The 28-year-old, who has been working in India since October, said he had been
supposed to meet his wife in the Leopold Cafe, a popular tourist haunt which
came under attack, but they managed to return to their flat when the shooting
started.

He said: "We heard two or three explosions about 10pm on Wednesday and then
gunshots. There were blasts and shots in the morning but I have not heard
anything since.

"We live at the southern tip of Mumbai and there is no way for us to get north
without putting ourselves in danger. It is like a military stand-off - guns
against guns."

Last night, up to six terrorists were still believed to be inside the Taj Mahal
hotel.

LOAD-DATE: November 30, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: 25


                      Copyright 2008 Bristol United Press
                              All Rights Reserved

                              107 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                                The Bristol Post

                           November 29, 2008 Saturday

Bristol lawyer describes mumbai terror attacks;
A Bristol lawyer living in Mumbai has told how his family have become
"prisoners" in their own home after the terrorist attacks on the Indian city.

SECTION: Pg. 12

LENGTH: 203  words


More than 150 people are now known to have died when terrorists opened fire on
people at a number of crowded public places.

Some 14 foreign nationals, including one Briton, have been confirmed among those
killed by the terrorists, who are said to have tried to pick out British and
American passport holders.

Jake Kilcoyne-Betts lives in the south of Mumbai close to both the Oberoi and
the Taj Mahal hotels, which were the main focus of the terrorists' attacks.

Mr Kilcoyne-Betts, a lawyer with Osborne Clarke in Bristol, is currently on a
secondment in Mumbai.

The 28-year-old, who has been working in India since October, said he had been
supposed to meet his wife in the Leopold Cafe, a popular tourist haunt which
came under attack, but they managed to return to their flat when the shooting
started.

He said: "We heard two or three explosions about 10pm on Wednesday and then
gunshots. There were blasts and shots in the morning but I have not heard
anything since.

"We live at the southern tip of Mumbai and there is no way for us to get north
without putting ourselves in danger. It is like a military stand-off - guns
against guns."

Last night, up to six terrorists were still believed to be inside the Taj Mahal
hotel.

LOAD-DATE: June 11, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: 25


                      Copyright 2008 Bristol United Press
                              All Rights Reserved

                              108 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                          The Guardian - Final Edition

                           November 29, 2008 Saturday

Front: Massacre in Mumbai: Death toll climbs past 150 as city reels from terror
attack: Scene inside Taj hotel is grim as dozens of bodies are likely to be
unearthed

BYLINE: Randeep Ramesh, Vikram Dodd and Daniel Pepper, Mumbai

SECTION: GUARDIAN HOME PAGES; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 1457 words


The death toll after three days of violence in Mumbai rose past 150 as
shroud-wrapped bodies were ferried last night from the smouldering remains of a
luxury hotel and an ultra-orthodox Jewish centre freed from the clutches of
Islamist militants.

More than 300 people were injured in the battles that began when gunmen took to
the streets of India's financial capital late on Wednesday, spraying bullets and
throwing grenades to spread terror across the city.

They ended up invading several Mumbai landmarks: two luxury hotels and a Jewish
house of prayer - a new phenomenon for

India, but a familiar pattern from attacks inspired by militant Islamism.

Yesterday the death toll of foreigners reached 16, including a father and
daughter from the US in India for a yoga retreat.

British officials said at least 100 Britons were caught up in the attacks, with
more than 40 held hostage or forced to hide in their rooms to save their lives.

Last night Indian forces fired grenades at the Taj Mahal hotel where at least
one gunman continued to elude Indian

commandos through the maze of corridors and rooms. The militant was believed to
have been using human shields to taunt and evade Indian security forces, and a
bag captured from the gunmen revealed a stockpile meant for a long siege: 400
rounds of ammunition, grenades, identity cards, rations, $1,000 (£650) in cash
and international credit cards.

A member of India's elite marine commando unit said the scene inside the hotel
was grim. The commander, his face disguised by a black scarf and sunglasses,
said he had seen 50 bodies, including 12 to 15 in one room. "Bodies were strewn
all over the place, and there was blood everywhere," he said.

Indian commandos had cleared the last of the gunmen from the Oberoi-Trident
hotel early yesterday afternoon, freeing

200 exhausted guests.

Special forces had less luck in the battle for the Jewish centre. Their raid on
the premises began with a team abseiling from a helicopter on to the roof of the
apartment complex but ended with five hostages dead. Television pictures last
night showed dead bodies spread across

beds in the building.

Ehud Barak, Israel's defence minister, said last night the bodies of three women
and three men were found, including

some who had been bound.

India pointed the finger of blame at Pakistan, with the foreign minister, Pranab
Mukherjee, saying "initial evidence" showed "elements with links to Pakistan are
involved". India has long blamed its neighbour for nurturing jihadi groups to
fight in the disputed Kashmir region.

In 2006 another coordinated bombing spree on Mumbai's railway killed more than
180 commuters. Lashkar-e-Taiba,

an Islamist group patronised by Pakistan in the past, was blamed at the time.

But Indian ministers yesterday appeared to be saying that they were accusing
Pakistan-based groups of staging the attack, and not the state itself.

Pakistan has denied involvement and condemned the attacks. The country's
president, Asif Ali Zardari, telephoned India's prime minister, Manmohan Singh,
to reassure him of his support in the battle against terrorism. Zardari
condemned the attacks, saying "non-state actors" were

responsible.

In an unprecedented step, Pakistan agreed to let the head of the its military's
Inter-Services Intelligence (ISI) agency

go to India to share information with investigators there.

The British government, meanwhile, was investigating whether two of the
attackers could be British citizens of Pakistani origin. Asked about the
possibility of any British link to the Mumbai attacks, Gordon Brown said it was
"too early" to reach any conclusions.

Taj Mahal hotel

By yesterday the five-star hotel was into its third day as the centre of a war
zone with ambulances parked outside to ferry away the dead and the injured. One
military chief said up to 15 bodies may be inside one room alone. Special forces
were firing into the old part of the hotel building, and

were having to take cover from gun and grenade attacks from terrorists still at
large.

All day, gunbattles broke out between commandos trying to

flush out the last terrorists in the building. The terrorists were so well
equipped that, more than 48 hours after the siege began, they were able to
return fire and lob grenades at the Indian forces trying to kill and capture
them. The number of terrorists still holed up in the Taj was unclear. They were
believed to be on the first floor of the old building and medics at the scene
said that hostages were being held and used as human shields. Outside, troops
took cover behind vehicles and trees as gun battles continued for hours and
smoke billowed from the hotel.

Ambulances parked outside the Taj were waiting for the casualties. Neville
Bharucha, of the Parsi ambulance service, said bodies were inside the hotel but
could not be recovered because terrorists were still at large. He had been
briefed by security officials about the situation inside, he said: "There are
dead bodies in the old Taj building. They are all lying there, they are the
guests. We can't recover the bodies because of the terrorists. They are

still holding human shields."

The chief of an Indian commando unit at the hotel said the terrorists were "very
determined and remorseless", and ready

for a long siege. He said the Taj was filled with terrified civilians, making it
very difficult for the commandos to fire on the gunmen. "To try to avoid
civilian casualties we had to be so much more careful," he said, adding that the
hotel was a grim sight.

Sajjad Karim, 38, a Tory MEP staying at the hotel who hid from the gunmen in a
barricaded basement room, landed back

in Britain yesterday, describing the ordeal as "one you can never prepare
yourself for". Speaking at Manchester airport, as he hugged his children aged
eight and six, he said: "Seeing that you weren't alone in the situation and
there were very many other people with you in the same desperate circumstances o
you give one another strength."

Oberoi Trident

Indian special forces yesterday ended the siege at the Oberoi hotel and said 24
bodies had been found. Commandos killed two militants and freed 143 guests,
including Britons and other foreign nationals. A bout 40 Britons were believed
to have been caught up in the attack on the Oberoi, and consular officials
quickly took them away from the scene as the siege ended.

"I'm going home, I'm going to see my wife," said Mark Abell, with a huge smile
on his face after emerging from the hotel.

He had locked himself in his room during the siege. "These people here have been
fantastic, the Indian authorities, the hotel staff," he said.

JK Dutt, director general of India's elite national security guard, said: "The
hotel is under our control."

Well-dressed foreigners and Indians, some dragging their suitcases, were
escorted into waiting buses and cars. One foreign member of the hotel staff left
holding a baby in his arms, others wept as police showed them photographs of
dead relatives for identification. As the evening wore on some relatives were
allowed into the Oberoi to search for

missing loved ones. A delegation from the United States consulate also entered
the hotel to search for its nationals.

Jewish centre

Throughout the day crowds grew around Nariman House, Mumbai's Jewish centre,
jostling for a view of the yellow

five-storey building. Every hour or so police cleared the street, and just as
quickly people filled back into the spaces along the alleys, lanes, rooftops and
roads.

They came to watch Indian commandos dropping from a helicopter about 20 metres
on to the roof and the deadly

denouement of an assault on the terrorists who lay within.

A pattern had emerged early on with bursts of gunfire from pistols, machine-guns
and sniper rifles lasting 15 minutes,

cascading into the facade and windows of the building before an eerie silence
was restored for half an hour. This continued until evening fell. Then the
commandos finally entered the shell of the building.

Snipers continued shooting before a succession of rockets were fired. At 5.30pm
there was a huge explosion on the fourth floor, sending the crowds to the
ground. Commandos then proceeded into the flat, emptying ammunition clips

in quick succession. The siege of Nariman House was over. Outside the street
filled with cheering people chanting "India is free" and "long live mother
India".

Six young Israelis from Zaka, the group responsible for mopping up blood and
body parts from the scenes of suicide

attacks in Israel, arrived. It was then confirmed that five hostages were dead.

They included Rabbi Gavriel and Rivka Holtzberg, the Brooklyn-based directors of
Chabad-Lubavitch of Mumbai. The

remains of two gunmen were also found.

Ian Jack, page 39 >=

Mohsin Hamid, page 42 >=

Letters, page 45 >=

Sport, page 1 >=

LOAD-DATE: November 29, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2008 Guardian Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              109 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                              The Herald (Glasgow)

                           November 29, 2008 Saturday
                                 Final Edition

'It was the most harrowing thing . . . really scary, absolute carnage';
Survivors relive the trauma of terror attacks in Mumbai

BYLINE: WILLIAM TINNING

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 678 words


SURVIVORS of the Mumbai terror attacks yesterday spoke of their relief after
being barricaded in their hotel rooms without food or water for more than 36
hours as gunmen went on the rampage.

Some spoke of fearing for their lives after being surrounded by explosions and
gunshots, and of residents running up and down corridors screaming as they
sought cover.

Among the survivors was Mark Abell, a British lawyer from London, who was caught
at the centre of the terror attacks on Wednesday night and locked himself in his
room in the Oberoi Hotel.

He told the BBC he had been just a few floors away from  the worst violence  in
the hotel. Troops regained control of it yesterday after clearing out the last
of the militants.

Mr Abell  said: "We were just too close for comfort and throughout the night,
the whole thing was punctuated by a series of explosions.

"Towards the end of the night it started to quieten down and I was communicating
on my BlackBerry with other people who were  in a similar position and we slowly
started to get a picture that we would be evacuated."

He was rescued by an entourage of heavily armed military, hotel staff and police
after some 36 hours.

Asked what was going through his mind at that point, he said: "I'm going home,
going to see my children, going to see my wife."

He then described the gruesome scenes as he was helped from the hotel. "The
lobby was carnage. There was blood and guts everywhere.

"It was very upsetting, " he said. "Just before I went to my room I had dinner
in the Kandahar restaurant. I've now just found out that that was one of the
places it started."

Breaking down as he continued relating his ordeal, he said: "Unfortunately, the
waitress who served me was one of the first to get shot."

Mr Abell paid tribute to the courage of the Indian authorities and hotel staff
who he said had been "incredibly good and kind".

He added: "It's been a picnic for me. It's all these other people who need
acknowledgement and praise."

Steve Vincent, from Farnborough, Hampshire, who was also forced to barricade
himself into his room at the Taj Mahal Palace before he was rescued by a
commando, yesterday described his ordeal on arriving back at Heathrow Airport in
London.

He said: "I barricaded the room, just locked the door, just sat there, turned
all the lights off, kept quiet. That was it.

"It was the most harrowing, harrowing thing I've ever been through. The most
scary experience of my life. Really scary, just absolute, absolute carnage."

Prashant Mangeshikar, 52, a Mumbai gynaecologist, said he had been in the foyer
of the Oberoi Hotel with his wife and daughter when the attackers arrived and
started shooting. He described how hotel workers ushered guests into an upstairs
service area in a bid to escape but they unwittingly came across another gunman.

"He looked young and did not speak to us, " Mr Mangeshikar said. "He just fired.
We were in sort of a single file.

"The man in front of my wife shielded us. He was a maintenance staff worker. He
took the bullets."

Sir Gulam Noon, a British businessman, was among others caught up in the
attacks.

He told how he and several colleagues barricaded themselves into a room at the
Taj Mahal Palace Hotel, which was cleared of terrorists only last night, some 45
hours after the attacks began.

Sir Gulam, who is originally from India but settled in London in 1973, said they
were all afraid that the gunmen would kick the door down at any time, and spoke
of smoke from a fire seeping into the room.

The businessman, who set up several food companies and is a former president of
the London Chambers of Commerce and Industry, went on: "Then it was a panic
situation. We could feel it in our throats. We knew it was serious."

However, those not so lucky to escape included a father and his teenage
daughter. Alan Scherr, 58, and daughter Naomi, 13, from Virginia, were in a cafe
in Mumbai on Wednesday night when they were killed.

The Scherrs were among 25 participants in a spiritual programme in Mumbai. Four
others on the mission were injured in the attack on the Oberoi Hotel.

LOAD-DATE: December 1, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: GOOD TO BE HOME: Conservative MEP Sajjad Karim is hugged by his
daughter Rabia, six, after arriving at Manchester. Picture: PA

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: GH


                      Copyright 2008 Newsquest Media Group
                              All Rights Reserved

                              110 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                            The Independent (London)

                           November 29, 2008 Saturday
                                 First Edition

The British connection?;
Security chiefs probe claims of UK links to terror attacks Death toll reaches
155 as hotel siege goes into third night

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 11 words


CARNAGE IN MUMBAI SPECIAL REPORTS & ANALYSIS, 2-9

PATRICK COCKBURN 41

LOAD-DATE: December 9, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: IA


                      Copyright 2008 Independent Print Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                              111 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                                  Morning Star

                           November 29, 2008 Saturday

Sport - Cricket - Pietersen: I won't force players to return to India;
Kevin Pietersen said yesterday that no England player will be forced to return
to India for next month's Tests in the wake of the terror attacks in Mumbai

LENGTH: 383 words


Indian cricket officials said yesterday that the Test series will go ahead as
planned, although they have switched the second Test from Mumbai to Chennai.

England's players flew home from India yesterday after their last two one-day
matches were postponed and Pietersen said: "If it's not safe, then we won't be
coming back."

"People are their own people," said the England captain. "I'll never force
anyone to do anything or tell them to do anything against their will.

"On the field, I may ask people to do things in a certain way, but people run
their own lives."

The first Test will be played in Ahmedabad from December 11 to 15, as originally
planned.

The Chennai Test will run from December 19 to December 23.

But doubts persist about how many England players will want to return for the
Test series.

One of the terrorists' main targets, the Taj Mahal Palace hotel, was the squad's
base at the start of the tour and was due to host them again for the final Test.

But, assuming that security experts do not advise against it, England Cricket
Board managing director Hugh Morris expects the tour to resume.

He said: "It's always a huge challenge to play cricket over here in India. I
would be confident the players will come over here full of enthusiasm and
wanting to do well in the series."

Indian organisers have also postponed the Champions League Twenty20 tournament
that was to be played early next month in Mumbai, Chennai and Bangalore,
including teams from Australia, South Africa, England and Pakistan.

The Pakistan Cricket Board said yesterday that they want India's tour in January
to go ahead to send a "clear message" to terrorists "that cricket goes on."

India are scheduled to play three Tests, five one-dayers and a Twenty20 from
January 4.

PCB chairman Ejaz Butt had been scheduled to travel to India early next month to
meet his Indian counterparts, but the trip was cancelled after the terror
attacks.

However, Butt hopes to hold the meeting in Colombo instead, although he admitted
that the Indian and Pakistan governments will ultimately decide whether India's
tour goes ahead.

"The issue of security is not in our hands and the final decision on the tour
could now only be taken at government level," Butt said.

He did not rule out the possibility of hosting the series at a neutral venue.

LOAD-DATE: December 1, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


               Copyright 2008 People's Press Printing Society Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                              112 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                    November 29, 2008 Saturday 12:43 PM GMT

Mumbai cardinal asked to ban Scientologists from scene of terrorist attacks

BYLINE: By Damian Thompson

SECTION: BLOG

LENGTH: 542 words


Anti-Scientology campaigners have begged the Cardinal Archbishop of Mumbai to
stop volunteers associated with the group from visiting the traumatised city to
distribute booklets by L Ron Hubbard.

Damian DeWitt, the pseudonym of one of the supporters of the anti-Scientology
group "Anonymous", has just sent the following letter to Cardinal Oswald
Gracias. Quite how His Eminence or the civil authorities are supposed to stop
followers of Hubbard from flooding Mumbai with their material is unclear. But I
think you'll be interested in the contents of the letter, and in particular the
claim that Scientologists exploited 9/11. Here it is:

For His Grace, Cardinal Oswald Gracias, Archbishop of Mumbai, Vice-President,
Catholic Bishops Conference of India

Your Grace,

I send my condolences and prayers to you and the people of Mumbai and India in
the aftermath of this terrible massacre which has taken the lives of innocent
people of many faiths and nations. I also write asking you to immediately pass
on a warning to the government officials in charge of post-disaster operations
in Mumbai.

The Church of Scientology has announced that it is dispatching its Volunteer
Ministers (VM's) to disaster sites in Mumbai. The Volunteer ministers must be
prevented from participating in disaster relief and trauma counseling efforts at
all costs.

They appeared at Ground Zero after our own terrorist tragedy on 9/11, and
behaved disgracefully. Head of the Church of Scientology David Miscavige has
proclaimed the Global Obliteration of psychiatry, psychology, and religious
pastoral counseling to be Scientology's number one priority. The VM's therefore
interfered with, harrassed, and blocked the efforts of legitimate, professional
mental health and pastoral care counselors.

Damian Thompson of the UK Telegraph has confirmed a report from Counterknowledge
that the Church of Scientology is dispatching VM's to Mumbai.
Counterknowledge.com is the first to publish this information based on
intelligence gathered by the anti-Scientology human rights protest group
Anonymous.

Many of us Catholic and Christian critics of Scientology's human rights abuses
are deeply concerned about Scientology's infiltration of India and its co-opting
government, municipal, civic, and religious organizations, particularly the
Catholic church in India.

The VM's routinely deceive the Indian public that they are a secular
organization disseminating the humanitarian wisdom of LR Hubbard which is
compatible with all religions. If fact, all of its practices are inseparable
from the rest of Scientology ... No decent group secular or religious should
have anything to do with this organization, especially the Catholic Church.
Unfortunately, the VM's have already deceived the Bishop of Ooty into endorsing
them by permitting them to teach Hubbard educational technology to students at
St Joseph's College. This is a scandal waiting to be exposed [my italics].

So I urge you to pass this information on to the authorities in Mumbai and to
alert the Catholic and secular press in India.

Spare, Your Grace, the traumatised people of Mumbai the unholy ministrations of
these vultures and their global obliteration of psychiatry programme.

In the compassion of Jesus,

Damian DeWittSan Francisco

LOAD-DATE: November 8, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTB


                  Copyright 2008 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              113 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                                The Western Mail

                           November 29, 2008 Saturday
                                 Second Edition

'No evidence of British link to terror attacks in Mumbai';
Foreign Office refutes rumour as troops battle with hotel gunmen

BYLINE: Ceri Williams

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 1660 words


INDIAN special forces in Mumbai were last night fighting to flush out the
remaining gunmen in the Taj Mahal Palace hotel, more than two days after
militants launched co-ordinated attacks.

Mystery continued to surround the nationality of the terrorists responsible as
the Foreign Office insisted there was "no evidence" to suggest any of them was
British.

It follows reports from India that UK-born Muslims were involved in carrying out
the massacre which claimed the lives of least 143 people.

Vilasrao Deshmukh, the chief minister of Maharashtra state - of which Mumbai is
the capital - was reported to have said that two Pakistanis of British descent
were among eight terrorists arrested during sieges.

But a spokesman for the Foreign Office said last night: "We have spoken to
Indian authorities at a high level and they have said that there is no evidence
that any of the terrorists either captured or dead are British."

Referring to the comments reportedly made by Mr Deshmukh, he said: "He said no
such thing either publicly or privately."

Senior Whitehall sources said it was too early to say whether there had been any
involvement by British nationals but that security services, working with
overseas partners, would be looking at any potential links to the UK.

And Prime Minister Gordon Brown said there was no suggestion of a British link
after a conversation with India's Prime Minister.

A team of detectives from Scotland Yard is flying to Mumbai to help Indian
authorities with the investigation.

Officers are also meeting Britons returning on flights to London's Heathrow
Airport and handing out leaflets appealing for information.

Speculation linking the attackers with Bradford,West Yorkshire, was quashed by
the Leeds-based Counter Terrorism Unit.

A statement from officers said: "At this stage we are not in receipt of any
intelligence or information linking the events in India to our area."

Speaking of his telephone conversation with Indian Prime Minister Manmohan
Singh, Mr Brown said: "At no point has the Prime Minister of India suggested to
me that there is evidence at this stage of any terrorist of British origins, but
obviously these are huge investigations that are being done and I think it will
be premature to draw any conclusions at all.

"We remain steadfast and firm, standing with India and all other countries
against any form of terrorist activity, and we will be vigilant in both helping
the Indian authorities and in making sure that in every part of the world we
support those who are fighting terrorism."

Home Secretary Jacqui Smith also said UK authorities had "no knowledge" of any
British links with the massacre.

Some in the Indian government have suggested that the attack could have be
planned or launched from Pakistan.

External Affairs Minister Pranab Mukherjee said: "According to preliminary
information, some elements in Pakistan are responsible for Mumbai terror
attacks.

Proof cannot be disclosed at this time."

An estimated155 people - including a wealthy British businessman - were killed
in the wave of terror which swept India's financial capital. At least eight
Britons were injured.

Among them was 29-year-old Harnish Patel, from Havant, Hampshire, who was shot
in a cafe in the ribs and legs. His father, Manashvi Patel, 56, said his son was
in shock and could not yet walk following the operation.

British gap year student Jeremy Lewis, 18, was also in a cafe watching England
play India at cricket on television. When the gunmen burst in he hid inastore
cupboard.

Mr Lewis, from Wales, said: "Seven people were killed on the spot and I thought
'I'm dead'.

I was in the cupboard for about an hour-and-a-half. I felt helpless.

I distinctly remember the noise of the gunfire and the flood of bullets hitting
bodies.

"There is nothing like it. It all feels like it was a dream. Afterwards, there
was blood everywhere."

One expert said the implications of the attacks would depend on who the
terrorists turned out to be. Dr Gareth Price, head of the Asia programme at the
Chatham House think tank, speculated that they might be Pakistanis, "brainwashed
village people" from India, or even British citizens.

"Who exactly were these people? If they're British that's one story," he said.

"If they're Indians it's far harder for India to deal with."

Gunfire continued into a third night last night as Indian commandos ended a
siege of Mumbai's luxury Oberoi Hotel, while other forces descended from
helicopters to storm a Jewish centre where at least 10 hostages were being held.

At least 25 captives were rushed out of the Oberoi Hotel and loaded into waiting
cars, buses and ambulances.

One of those rescued, Briton Mark Abell, said he locked himself in his room
during the siege. After being freed he said: "I'm going home, I'm going to see
my wife."

Mr Brown said his thoughts were with those who had died, including British
yachting tycoon Andreas Liveras.

Mr Liveras, the 73-year-old Cypriot-born founder of a luxury yacht business, was
pronounced dead on arrival at St George's Hospital in the city.

Briton Nicole Griffen said she was rescued by Indian special forces from the Taj
Mahal hotel.

She told the BBC: "They entered and looked through our passports and scouted
around to see if there was anyone harbouring terrorists or attackers, and then
we were promptly told where to go by the central stairway and again we were
asked to wait with other guests while they checked other floors and checked
other rooms and we all congregated into one space where they could protect us
centrally."

Foreign Secretary David Miliband also said it was "too early to say" whether any
of the terrorists were British.

Mr Miliband told Sky News: "Obviously, the priority of the Indian authorities is
to complete this operation.

Media criticised

A Welsh couple who were staying in the hotel at the centre of the Mumbai attacks
yesterday accused American news network CNN of putting their lives at risk by
broadcasting where they were.

Lynne and Kenneth Shaw, from Penarth, warned that terrorists are listening in on
the media to pinpoint Western victims.

Mrs Shaw claimed the American satellite TV channel had broadcast details of
where they were at the Taj Mahal Palace Hotel.

She has appealed to the media to be careful with the information it broadcasts
because safety could be compromised and lives lost.

The couple flew back into Heathrow yesterday morning on a flight arranged by the
British Consulate. Mrs Shaw had been forced to hide under a table as terrorists
stormed the Taj Mahal Palace Hotel.

She and her husband were later rescued by Gurkhas and taken straight to the
Australian Embassy.

The couple were at the end of a month-long visit to India and were staying in
Mumbai for a few days before heading back to the UK.

Speaking yesterday from her home in Penarth, Mrs Shaw said: "We have been asked
by the British terror police not to talk to the Press. But the reason I would
not want to talk to anyone is because our safety was actually compromised by
CNN, which broadcast where we were.

"The terrorists were watching CNN and they came down from where they were in a
lift after hearing about us on TV.

"For that reason I would appeal to the media to be very careful about what they
broadcast.

"When we left Mumbai there were still around 100 people trapped there."

A spokesman for CNN, said: "CNN has received no complaint from any individual
regarding our coverage and their safety. We take such matters very seriously.

"We had CNN and Turner Broadcasting employees staying trapped at the Taj hotel
during the attacks, and were vigilant about anything we broadcast that could
compromise the safety of those inside. We are not aware of the allegedly
compromising broadcast, but even in the absence of key details such as when and
where, we will continue to check."

Life returns to teeming streets

Deserted roads and cordoned-off areas. Gun-toting police and army personnel
everywhere. south Mumbai reeling from another deadly terror blow.

When a group of terrorists calling themselves the Deccan Mujahideen launched
coordinated attacks on the city late on Wednesday, life was thrown out of gear.

Panic, shock and a sense of resignation reigned over a normally bustling city
and its teeming millions.

But yesterday Mumbai's tremendous ability to bounce back from the depths of
despondency slowly rose to the fore.

Even as the siege around the Taj Mahal hotel, the Oberoi and Nariman House
continued, the rest of the city began to spring back to life.

Schools and colleges were reopened and, as news filtered in that the attacks
were contained in a small pocket of south Mumbai, the bustling city began to
find its feet again.

Earlier, in the first few shocking hours, it had been a different story.

The attacks had caused the closure of schools and colleges throughout the city
and shops and business establishments in some areas.

Following the attack at Chattrapathi Shivaji railway terminus, trains - the life
line of Mumbai - were stopped.

Police and army personnel, all heavily armed, were deployed at hospitals,
railway stations and embassies.

However, the scene around the Taj Mahal hotel, the Oberoi and Nariman House, a
Jewish centre, the targets of the terrorist attacks, was a study in contrast.

While several roads wore a dark and deserted look, a horde of television crews
and a few thousand curious onlookers had gathered at these flashpoints.

The whirr of generators which powered mobile television stations and a low buzz
of muted talk filled the air.

Onlookers gathered around the places under attack.

When would the attack end?

That was the question on everyone's mind.

But, as the sun disappeared over the Arabian Sea, a sense of hope filled the air
last night.

The cheer which went up from the onlookers when Nariman House was retaken
confirmed that.

Mumbai's long night of terror was perhaps nearing an end.

LOAD-DATE: November 30, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:  DROP ZONE Indian commando comes down a rope to reach the top of
Nariman House, under siege by suspected militants in Mumbai
 ATTACK MODE Army personnel lie down near a tourism poster of the Taj Mahal
Hotel, and aim a grenade launcher at the real hotel in Mumbai, India, yesterday.
PICTURE: AP Photo/Rajanish Kakade

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                    Copyright 2008 Western Mail and Echo Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                              114 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                                The Western Mail

                           November 29, 2008 Saturday
                                 First Edition

'No evidence of British link to terror attacks in Mumbai';
Foreign Office refutes rumour of involvement as seige ends

BYLINE: Ceri Williams

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 1288 words


MYSTERY last night surrounded the nationality of the terrorists responsible for
attacking Mumbai as the Foreign Office insisted there was "no evidence" to
suggest any of them were British.

It follows reports from India that UK-born Muslims were involved in carrying out
the massacre which claimed the lives of least 143 people.

Vilasrao Deshmukh, the chief minister of Maharashtra state - of which Mumbai is
the capital - was reported to have said that two Pakistanis of British descent
were among eight terrorists arrested during sieges.

But a spokesman for the Foreign Office said last night: "We have spoken to
Indian authorities at a high level and they have said that there is no evidence
that any of the terrorists either captured or dead are British."

Referring to the comments reportedly made by Mr Deshmukh, he said: "He said no
such thing either publicly or privately."

Senior Whitehall sources said it was too early to say whether there had been any
involvement by British nationals but that security services, working with
overseas partners, would be looking at any potential links to the UK.

And Prime Minister Gordon Brown said there was no suggestion of a British link
after a conversation with India's Prime Minister.

A team of detectives from Scotland Yard is flying to Mumbai to help Indian
authorities with the investigation.

Officers are also meeting Britons returning on flights to London's Heathrow
Airport and handing out leaflets appealing for information.

Speculation linking the attackers with Bradford,West Yorkshire, was quashed by
the Leeds-based Counter Terrorism Unit.

A statement from officers said: "At this stage we are not in receipt of any
intelligence or information linking the events in India to our area."

Speaking of his telephone conversation with Indian Prime Minister Manmohan
Singh, Mr Brown said: "At no point has the Prime Minister of India suggested to
me that there is evidence at this stage of any terrorist of British origins, but
obviously these are huge investigations that are being done and I think it will
be premature to draw any conclusions at all.

"We remain steadfast and firm, standing with India and all other countries
against any form of terrorist activity, and we will be vigilant in both helping
the Indian authorities and in making sure that in every part of the world we
support those who are fighting terrorism."

Home Secretary Jacqui Smith also said UK authorities had "no knowledge" of any
British links with the massacre.

Some in the Indian government have suggested that the attack could have be
planned or launched from Pakistan.

External Affairs Minister Pranab Mukherjee said: "According to preliminary
information, some elements in Pakistan are responsible for Mumbai terror
attacks.

Proof cannot be disclosed at this time."

At least 143 people - including a wealthy British businessman - were killed in
the wave of terror which swept India's financial capital.

At least eight Britons were injured.

Among them was 29-year-old Harnish Patel, from Havant, Hampshire, who was shot
in a cafe in the ribs and legs. His father, Manashvi Patel, 56, said his son was
in shock and could not yet walk following the operation.

British gap year student Jeremy Lewis, 18, was also in a cafe watching England
play India at cricket on television. When the gunmen burst in he hid inastore
cupboard.

Mr Lewis, from Wales, said: "Seven people were killed on the spot and I thought
'I'm dead'.

I was in the cupboard for about an hour-and-a-half. I felt helpless.

I distinctly remember the noise of the gunfire and the flood of bullets hitting
bodies.

"There is nothing like it. It all feels like it was a dream. Afterwards, there
was blood everywhere."

One expert said the implications of the attacks would depend on who the
terrorists turned out to be.

Dr Gareth Price, head of the Asia programme at the Chatham House think tank,
speculated that they might be Pakistanis, "brainwashed village people" from
India, or even British citizens.

"Who exactly were these people? If they're British that's one story," he said.

"If they're Indians it's far harder for India to deal with."

Gunfire continued into a third night last night as Indian commandos ended a
siege of Mumbai's luxury Oberoi Hotel, while other forces descended from
helicopters to storm a Jewish centre where at least 10 hostages were being held.

At least 25 captives were rushed out of the Oberoi Hotel and loaded into waiting
cars, buses and ambulances.

One of those rescued, Briton Mark Abell, said he locked himself in his room
during the siege. After being freed he said: "I'm going home, I'm going to see
my wife."

Mr Brown said his thoughts were with those who had died, including British
yachting tycoon Andreas Liveras.

Mr Liveras, the 73-year-old Cypriot-born founder of a luxury yacht business, was
pronounced dead on arrival at St George's Hospital in the city.

Briton Nicole Griffen said she was rescued by Indian special forces from the Taj
Mahal hotel.

She told the BBC: "They entered and looked through our passports and scouted
around to see if there was anyone harbouring terrorists or attackers, and then
we were promptly told where to go by the central stairway and again we were
asked to wait with other guests while they checked other floors and checked
other rooms and we all congregated into one space where they could protect us
centrally."

Foreign Secretary David Miliband also said it was "too early to say" whether any
of the terrorists were British.

Mr Miliband told Sky News: "Obviously, the priority of the Indian authorities is
to complete this operation.

Life returns to teeming streets

Deserted roads and cordoned-off areas. Gun-toting police and army personnel
everywhere.

south Mumbai reeling from another deadly terror blow.

When a group of terrorists calling themselves the Deccan Mujahideen launched
coordinated attacks on the city late on Wednesday, life was thrown out of gear.

Panic, shock and a sense of resignation reigned over a normally bustling city
and its teeming millions.

But yesterday Mumbai's tremendous ability to bounce back from the depths of
despondency slowly rose to the fore.

Even as the siege around the Taj Mahal hotel, the Oberoi and Nariman House
continued, the rest of the city began to spring back to life.

Schools and colleges were reopened and, as news filtered in that the attacks
were contained in a small pocket of south Mumbai, the bustling city began to
find its feet again.

Earlier, in the first few shocking hours, it had been a different story.

The attacks had caused the closure of schools and colleges throughout the city
and shops and business establishments in some areas.

Following the attack at Chattrapathi Shivaji railway terminus, trains - the life
line of Mumbai - were stopped.

Police and army personnel, all heavily armed, were deployed at hospitals,
railway stations and embassies.

However, the scene around the Taj Mahal hotel, the Oberoi and Nariman House, a
Jewish centre, the targets of the terrorist attacks, was a study in contrast.

While several roads wore a dark and deserted look, a horde of television crews
and a few thousand curious onlookers had gathered at these flashpoints.

The whirr of generators which powered mobile television stations and a low buzz
of muted talk filled the air.

Onlookers gathered around the places under attack.

When would the attack end?

That was the question on everyone's mind.

But, as the sun disappeared over the Arabian Sea, a sense of hope filled the air
last night.

The cheer which went up from the onlookers when Nariman House was retaken
confirmed that.

Mumbai's long night of terror was perhaps nearing an end.

LOAD-DATE: November 30, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:  DROP ZONE Indian commando comes down a rope to reach the top of
Nariman House, under siege by suspected militants in Mumbai
 ATTACK MODE Army personnel lie down near a tourism poster of the Taj Mahal
Hotel, and aim a grenade launcher at the real hotel in Mumbai, India, yesterday.
PICTURE: AP Photo/Rajanish Kakade

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                    Copyright 2008 Western Mail and Echo Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                              115 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring South Asia - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                            November 30, 2008 Sunday

India: Mumbai coming to terms with terror attacks

LENGTH: 416 words


Text of report by Indian news agency PTI

Mumbai, 30 November: This ever chirpy city is slowly coming to terms after it
was brought to its knees by the most gruesome multiple terror attacks ever to
take place in the country.

Known as the city that never sleeps, the last three days saw a new side of
India's financial capital Mumbai - closed shops, open roads, crowd-free local
trains among many other such small but significant nuances.

"It looked as if fear had gripped the entire city. Not many people ventured out
of their house after it all began," Nasir Shah, a taxi driver said.

But now that the guns have fallen silent, the city is slowly coming to terms
with horrific terror that first raised its head on Wednesday [26 November]
evening.

"I was at home watching news when I saw a news flash of shooting taking place
outside Leopold cafe. My brother-in-law had come from Australia and had gone out
for dinner.

"I was worried about him and slept only after I came to know that he had gone to
his friend's place," said Anjana Dehani who lives on Meenu Desai road, a
stone-throw distance from Hotel Taj Mahal.

"In middle of the night I was woken up by loud blasts and that's when the fear
crept in. My husband whose factory is getting renovated visited his office the
next day, something which he has not done for many a years," she said.

Breathing a sigh of relief is the cashier of Naval restaurant and stores. "For
two days the shop was shut which resulted in loss," he said.

Incidentally, the restaurant was the first to open (an hour after the operation
by security forces got over) among the many shops in the vicinity of Taj Mahal
Hotel including the 'Tendulkars', the restaurant owned by batting maestro Sachin
Tendulkar.

Even the Marine Drive area, near Oberoi hotel, which usually hustles and bustles
with joggers and love-struck couples, had regained a little bit of its lost
glory.

"I had not come here for my morning walk for the last two days. I missed coming
here but could not help it as it was risky," said Prakash Desai, a retired
government official who was seen stretching himself facing the quite sea.

Several curious onlookers thronged the Taj Mahal Hotel, the face of the deadly
terror strikes which were telecast live for nearly 60 hours.

Even as the city slowly returns to normalcy, the common talk among Mumbaiikars
[residents of Mumbai] is the terror attack which has re-written the history of
terrorism in the country.

Source: PTI news agency, New Delhi, in English 0728gmt 30 Nov 08

LOAD-DATE: November 30, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2008 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              116 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring South Asia - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                            November 30, 2008 Sunday

India: State chief says "no specific tip" about Mumbai terror attacks

LENGTH: 164 words


Text of report by Indian news agency PTI

Mumbai, 30 November [Sunday]: The Indian state of Maharashtra had not got any
specific intelligence reports warning about the Mumbai terror attack, Chief
Minister Vilasrao Deshmukh said here on Sunday.

Deshmukh, along with Police Commissioner Hassan Gafoor and Chief Secretary Johny
Joseph visited the hotel Taj, one of the sites of the terrorist attacks.

"Probe is now progressing fast. Within two to three days the truth will be out,"
Deshmukh told reporters.

"We had no specific tip about the attack," he said.

The state government will strengthen the coastal security, he said.

Gafoor, to a query as to why the operations at Taj and other places took so
long, said "highest priority was to save the hostages."

None of the terrorists is known to be working in Taj or Oberoi-Trident in the
past, he said.

He also said that there are no clues so far indicating local people's
involvement.

Source: PTI news agency, New Delhi, in English 1250gmt 30 Nov 08

LOAD-DATE: November 30, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2008 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              117 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                    BBC Monitoring Asia Pacific - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                            November 30, 2008 Sunday

Chinese, Pakistani foreign ministers condemn Mumbai terror attack

LENGTH: 204 words


Text of report in English by official Chinese news agency Xinhua (New China News
Agency)

[Xinhua: "Chinese, Pakistani FMs Vow To Advance Bilateral Ties, Condemn Mumbai
Terrorist Attacks"]

Beijing, Nov. 30 (Xinhua) - Chinese Foreign Minister Yang Jiechi and his
Pakistani counterpart Shah Mehmood Qureshi on Saturday pledged joint efforts
during their phone conversation to push forward bilateral ties.

During their conversation, the two foreign ministers also strongly condemned the
terrorist attacks in India's financial hub of Mumbai Wednesday that have killed
at least 195 people and injured another 295.

Strongly denouncing Mumbai attacks, Qureshi said Pakistan extended deep sympathy
and condolence to the victims' families and Pakistan was willing to offer all
necessary assistance to India.

Yang also strongly condemned the terrorist attacks, and said China was firmly
against all forms of terrorism, hoping Pakistan and India could continue to
strengthen cooperation, maintain the Pakistan-India peace process, and to
advance bilateral ties in a healthy and steady way.

These measures are in the fundamental interests of both Pakistan and India, Yang
added.

Source: Xinhua news agency, Beijing, in English 0659 gmt 30 Nov 08

LOAD-DATE: November 30, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2008 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              118 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                               Daily Star Sunday

                               November 30, 2008
                                U.K. 1st Edition

Terror attack 'leader' spotted in Brum;
UK LINK TO HORROR

BYLINE: by NEIL CHANDLER

SECTION: NEWS TYPE=ARTICLE LINK=1; 5

LENGTH: 480 words


A 'MASTERMIND' of the gang suspected of killing 195 people in Mumbai was in
Birmingham the day before the attacks.

The link came as reports claiming Yorkshiremen had been among the attackers were
denied.

Raheel Shaikh is alleged to be a leading terror trainer with Lashkar-e-Taiba
(LET), the group in the frame for the Mumbai massacres. The day before the
carnage Indian anti-terror police revealed he had been traced to the West
Midlands city.

Shaikh, 35, also known as Raheel Ataur Rehman Sheikh, was allegedly behind the
2006 train bombs in Mumbai in which 187 died.

Yesterday the sole surviving Mumbai attacker Ajmal Amin Kamal admitted he was a
member of Shaikh's LET organisation.

In a further Midlands connection, Coventry man Mohammad Ajmal Khan is serving
nine years for raising millions of pounds for LET.

The group also ran a Muslim school in Pakistan attended by Shehzad Tanweer, one
of the British bombers in the July 7, 2005 bombings in London that killed 56.

LET is closely allied with al-Qaida and is banned in the UK and the US.

As India's "Black Cats" anti-terror police won the battle for Mumbai's Taj Mahal
hotel yesterday, the details of the gang's sickening plan emerged.

Kamal said his group killed four fishermen on the trawler Kuber after hijacking
it. The body of the fifth crewman Balwant Tandel was found beheaded on the
vessel.

The terrorists sailed in a merchant ship from Karachi in Pakistan to near
Mumbai, hijacked the trawler and then used inflatable boats to go ashore.
Sources claimed Kamal and the other killers were trained on the Mangla Dam, a
reservoir between Pakistan-occupied Kashmir and Pakistan's Punjab region.

Kamal is said to have told police: "We were told no mercy needs to be shown."

Indian officials said ten gunmen had taken part in the attacks. State chief
minister Vilasrao Deshmukh said there was no evidence of British citizens being
involved.

Indian commandos killed the last of the gunmen holed up in the 565-room Taj
Mahal and guests who had cowered in their rooms were led to safety.

Nicholas Edmiston, a colleague of murdered businessman Andreas Liveras, 73, said
the dead Brit knew shots had been heard in the city but felt safe enough to go
to the Taj. Nicholas stayed on board Mr Liveras' yacht Alysia while the tycoon
went into Mumbai with the ship's purser and two others.

Mr Edmiston said: "He felt it was nothing too dangerous."

Brit Richard Farah, who lives in Trinidad, hid his passport inside his false leg
and spent 25 hours barricaded in his room thinking he was "a goner".

He said: "If they had come to get me they wouldn't have found a passport."

Meanwhile hate preacher Anjem Choudary has warned Barack Obama he faces a "major
response" from Muslim radicals if he does not change US foreign policy.

Brit-born Choudary claimed Obama would feel the full force of al-Qaida if he
continued with the policies of the Bush regime.

LOAD-DATE: December 3, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: DAMAGE: A burnedout room in the Taj Mahal and, inset above, the body of
one of the terrorists
WRECKED: Smoke pours from the Taj Mahal hotel in Mumbai yesterday
HONOURED: The funeral of an Indian commando who died in the attacks

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2008 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS
                              All Rights Reserved

                              119 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                               Daily Star Sunday

                               November 30, 2008

Terror attack 'leader' spotted in Brum;
AS 'BEAST ' BEGS FOR LIFE

BYLINE: by NEIL CHANDLER

SECTION: NEWS TYPE=ARTICLE LINK=1; 7

LENGTH: 487 words


A 'MASTERMIND' of the gang suspected of killing 195 people in Mumbai was in
Birmingham the day before the attacks.

The link came as it emerged the sole surviving terrorist, Azam Amir Kasav, inset
below, BEGGED medics to save his life when he arrived in hospital.

Suspected ringleader Raheel Shaikh is alleged to be a terror trainer with
Lashkare-Taiba (LET), the group in the frame for the Mumbai massacres. The day
before the carnage Indian anti-terror police revealed he had been traced to the
West Midlands city.

Shaikh, 35, also known as Raheel Ataur Rehman Sheikh, was allegedly behind the
2006 train bombs in Mumbai in which 187 died.

Yesterday sole surviving Mumbai attacker Kasav admitted he was a member of
Shaikh's LET organisation.

In a further Midlands connection, Coventry man Mohammad Ajmal Khan is serving
nine years for raising millions of pounds for LET.

The group also ran a Muslim school in Pakistan attended by Shehzad Tanweer, one
of the British bombers in the July 7, 2005 bombings in London that killed 56.

LET is closely allied with al-Qaida and is banned in the UK and the US.

As India's "Black Cats" anti-terror police won the battle for Mumbai's Taj Mahal
hotel yesterday, the details of the gang's sickening plan emerged.

Kasav, 21, said his group killed four fishermen on the trawler Kuber after
hijacking it. The body of the fifth crewman Balwant Tandel was found beheaded on
the vessel.

The terrorists sailed in a merchant ship from Karachi in Pakistan to near
Mumbai, hijacked the trawler and then used inflatable boats to go ashore.
Sources claimed Kamal and the other killers were trained on the Mangla Dam, a
reservoir between Pakistan-occupied Kashmir and Pakistan's Punjab region.

Kasav is said to have told police: "We were told no mercy needs to be shown."

But when he was taken to hospital, his bravado was replaced by a snivelling plea
to doctors. He begged: "I do not want to die. Please put me on a saline."

Last night Indian officials said ten gunmen had taken part in the attacks.

However reports that Yorkshiremen were involved were played down, with State
chief minister Vilasrao Deshmukh stressing there was no evidence of British
citizens being involved.

Indian commandos killed the last of the gunmen holed up in the 565-room Taj
Mahal and guests who had cowered in their rooms were led to safety.

Nicholas Edmiston, a colleague of murdered Andreas Liveras, 73, said the dead
Brit knew shots had been heard in the city but felt safe enough to go to the
Taj. Nicholas stayed on board Mr Liveras' yacht Alysia while the tycoon went
into Mumbai with the ship's purser and two others.

Mr Edmiston said: "He felt it was nothing too dangerous."

Meanwhile hate preacher Anjem Choudary has warned Barack Obama he faces a "major
response" from Muslim radicals if he does not change US foreign policy.

Brit-born Choudary claimed Obama would feel the full force of al-Qaida if he
followed the Bush regime.

LOAD-DATE: December 3, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: WRECKED: Smoke pours from the Taj Mahal hotel in Mumbai yesterday
DAMAGE: A burnedout room in the Taj Mahal
HONOURED: The funeral of an Indian commando who died in the attacks

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2008 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS
                              All Rights Reserved

                              120 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                  Guardian.com

                               November 30, 2008

Mumbai terror attacks: Senior Indian officials resign amid criticism over siege

LENGTH: 1008 words


India's national security adviser resigned today in response to the deadly
attacks in Mumbai, local television channels said.

News of M K Narayanan's offer to quit came hours after India's ruling Congress
party announced that home minister Shivraj Patil had resigned.

There has been criticism of politicians and the security services for the
failure to confront the threat of terrorism, which has manifested itself in a
number of attacks in recent years in Mumbai and elsewhere in India.

Tensions between India and Pakistan escalated last night after it was claimed
that the only terrorist to have survived three days of deadly battles in Mumbai
was from Pakistan, and that his nine fellow Islamist militants were either from
that country or had been trained there.

The claims about responsibility for the attack, in which almost 200 people were
killed, came from leaked police accounts that gave details of the interrogation
of Azam Amir Kasab, 21, said to have been the man pictured at Mumbai's main
train station carrying an assault rifle and grenades.

According to the reports, which could not be independently verified, Kasab said
that the operation was the responsibility of Lashkar-e-Taiba, a jihadist group
based in Pakistan, and its aim was to 'kill as many as possible' in what was
intended to be India's 9/11. The claims were made as Indian special forces ended
the violent sieges around Mumbai with the killing of the final three terrorists
holding out in the Taj Mahal Palace hotel - where British survivors had walked
through rooms strewn with bodies and 'blood and guts' as they were led to
safety.

The allegations about Pakistan emerged as India was confronted with the full
horror of the past few days. Reporters were allowed into the wrecked and
scorched remains of the Taj Mahal and Trident-Oberoi hotels, where scores of
victims had been murdered.

Public anger in India has been mounting following allegations linking Pakistan
to the attacks. They include:

* Kasab's claim that militants were trained in two camps run by Lashkar-e-Taiba
in Pakistan.

* Allegations that phones found on a trawler suspected of ferrying the gunmen to
Mumbai had been used to contact Pakistan.

* The claim by India's minister of state for home affairs, Sri Prakash Jaiswal,
that 'the investigation carried out so far has revealed the hand of
Pakistan-based groups in the Mumbai attack'.

In response to the claim that the attackers were either Pakistanis or had been
trained there, a senior Pakistani official said troops would be sent to the
border if tensions continued to rise.

However, despite initial claims, it became increasingly certain that there was
no involvement of British-based fundamentalists. Police forces across the UK
denied they were investigating named individuals and Gordon Brown said there was
no evidence linking any of the terrorist to the UK.

The escalating war of words between India and Pakistan has set alarm bells
ringing in the United States, where President Bush convened an emergency meeting
with senior security officials. President-elect Barack Obama, who has said that
reconciliation between the nuclear-armed neighbours is essential to stabilise
Afghanistan and defeat al-Qaeda, called Indian Prime Minister Manmohan Singh on
Friday night to offer condolences.

The cold-blooded intent of the militants has shaken India. Officials said just
10 gunmen, with enough arms and ammunition 'to kill 5,000 people', had attacked
the Taj, the Trident-Oberoi, the main railway station, a popular restaurant and
a cinema. In the siege of a Jewish centre, which was retaken by security forces
on Friday night, the militants had bound and shot five people, including a rabbi
and his wife, before they were killed.

A handful of gunmen held out for almost three days, taking hundreds of people
hostage, many of them Westerners. Twenty-two of those killed were foreigners.
Last night emergency services raised the prospect that many - including three
Britons - were still missing from the Taj.

The gunmen set the 105-year-old hotel ablaze as they evaded scores of India's
best-trained commandos. They left bodies with grenades stuffed into their
mouths.

The photograph of a baby-faced militant, whom newspaper reports claim is Kasab,
wearing combat trousers and swinging an AK47 in Mumbai's main railway station,
is the defining image of the rampage. His victims are said to include Mumbai's
anti-terror squad chief Hemant Karkare, whose body was cremated yesterday.

Under questioning, Kasab is said to have admitted to being a resident of
Faridkot in Pakistan's Punjab province. 'I was trained by Lashkar-e-Taiba and
asked to cause maximum casualties in Mumbai,' he is alleged to have said,
referring to an organisation which India says is sending armed militants into
Kashmir. Kasab was arrested on Wednesday night after his partner, said to be
Ismail Khan, was shot dead.

The duo's night began when they fired on commuters in the railway station and in
two hospitals. Kasab told police that they had learnt about Mumbai's geography
using Google Earth.

According to Indian media reports, the captured militant said that a room booked
in the Taj had been used to store explosives and ammunition ahead of the
attacks. This might explain how the squads of gunmen were able to reload their
weapons over more than 50 hours and appeared to have an inexhaustible supply of
grenades.

Asif Ali Zardari, the President of Pakistan, yesterday appeared on Indian
television in an attempt to defuse tensions. 'As President of Pakistan, if any
evidence comes of any individual or group in any part of my country, I shall
take the swiftest action in the light of evidence and in front of the world,' he
said.

Analysts said that the omens did not look good for the peace process between
India and Pakistan. 'I expect a very difficult time ahead,' said Tariq Fatemi, a
former Pakistani ambassador to Washington. 'Anything short of a real and genuine
effort to co-operate by Pakistan would send very, very bad signals - not just to
India but to the US and to Europe too.'

LOAD-DATE: November 30, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


      Copyright  2008  Guardian Unlimited (© Guardian Newspapers Limited)
                              All rights reserved

                              121 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                             The Observer (London)

                               November 30, 2008

Business & Media: Business: Terror in Asia: India counts the cost of global
terrorism: The attacks on Mumbai are a new blow to an economy already suffering
from internal problems and could spell disaster for tourism.

BYLINE: Zoe Wood in Delhi, Tim Webb and James Robinson

SECTION: OBSERVER BUSINESS PAGES; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 1568 words


Flanked by the luxurious Taj Mahal Palace, the Gateway is a potent symbol of old
and new India. But last week these icons of the Mumbai cityscape earned a new
horrific significance as terrorists used them to strike a blow at the heart of
India's financial capital.

While visceral footage of what local news networks described as 'Mumbai's 9/11'
was beamed around the world, India was forced to confront a new terrorism
paradigm, after extremists followed al-Qaeda's example by singling out foreign
nationals for attack.

The burnt-out Taj Mahal and Trident-Oberoi hotels will provide a daily reminder
of the devastation for those who walk by on their way to work in the nearby
financial district, where multinational giants Merrill Lynch, Morgan Stanley and
HSBC all have offices.

Analysts are worried that the constant reminder of the attacks will heighten
investors' concerns at a time when the Indian economy is slowing and foreign
capital is being repatriated. The UK is one of the top three investors in India
but in 2008 international funds have been flowing the other way as overseas
investors have pulled a record $13.5bn out of Indian stocks, contributing to the
56 per cent fall in the main Bombay Stock Exchange index.

'This is the last thing India needs,' said businessman Sir Gulam Noon. The
British-based multimillionaire, who made his fortune in ready meals, escaped
unhurt from the Taj Mahal after spending a frightening night holed up in his
suite on the third floor. 'The attacks will temporarily have an impact. It's
clearly not good for the economy at a time when the world is in financial
crisis.'

That the Taj Mahal and Oberoi play host to the cream of the international
business elite is clear given the high-profile executives caught up in the
tragedy. Along with Noon, Unilever chief executive Patrick Cescau and his
successor, Paul Polman, escaped the Taj Mahal. The hotel's apparent
vulnerability is worrying - Gordon Brown and a delegation of 100 British
business leaders, including Sir Richard Branson stayed there earlier this year.

The head of Mumbai's anti-terrorist squad, Hemant Karkare, was also among those
killed. 'The security landscape has changed overnight,' said Jake Stratton of
investment risk consultancy Control Risks. 'This will have a serious effect on
how foreign companies perceive India as a business destination.'

In the three decades following independence in 1947, India's GDP growth averaged
around 1 per cent, but international links have helped its economy to grow by at
least 9 per cent for the last three years. This new success transformed Indian
companies into powerbrokers on the main stage; notable deals have included
Tata's move on British steelmaker Corus and United Breweries' acquisition of
Whyte and Mackay.

Last month Indian finance minister Palaniappan Chidambaram insisted economic
growth would 'bounce back' to 9 per cent in 2009. But the International Monetary
Fund is more cautious, predicting the figure will be closer to 6 per cent.

Capital Economics analyst Tehmina Khan goes further in interpreting last week's
GDP figures, which showed India's economy grew 7.6 per cent in the third
quarter, its slowest pace since 2004, as the start of a 'potentially severe'
downturn.

The figures revealed an economy slowing across the board, with manufacturing
growth at its lowest level since 2002 and service sector gains dipping below 10
per cent for the first time in three years. Consumer spending was up 5 per cent
year on year, but that was 3 percentage points lower than in the second quarter
- also the lowest since 2002. 'With banks also becoming more cautious about
lending, India's growth prospects look increasingly poor,' said Kahn, who
expects growth to slow to 5 per cent next year. 'Both investor and consumer
confidence will have been dented by the terrorist attack on Mumbai, with
overseas investors unlikely to rush back in.'

In the heat of last week's crisis, the stock, bond and foreign-exchange markets
were all closed, although the central bank continued to pump cash into the
interbank lending markets. The last time the stock exchange was shut as a result
of a terrorist attack was in 1993, when at least 70 people were killed in a
series of explosions.

Raj Nambisan, business editor of Mumbai newspaper DNA , said closing the
exchanges was the wrong thing to do as it 'sent out the wrong message to
investors. I don't think this incident will affect business sentiment in the
long-term. Mumbai is the financial centre, it is not India. There are not many
economies growing at 7 per cent'.

Mohan Kaul, director-general of the Commonwealth Business Council agrees: 'Fear
will not drive business away from India, if anything it will create a bond
between the big financial cities who have all had their confidence shaken. The
tube in London and the Twin Towers in New York are just as iconic as the Taj
hotel. The bond between British and Indian business leaders will be stronger as
they sit down to discuss deals.'

However, the timing of the attack, just as the holiday season gets under way, is
expected to hurt India's important tourism economy as countries tighten travel
policies. Around the country, hotels increased security controls last week. At
the Taj Mahal's sister hotel in New Delhi, all visitors had to pass through a
perimeter security checkpoint. Anxious staff, many of whom had friends among
those hurt in Mumbai, manned metal detectors and searched bags as they sought to
restore faith in their ability to protect those within its marbled walls.

Members of India's growing business elite smiled kindly at Westerners as they
huddled nervously in the lobby. 'I worked in New York during 9/11 and that
didn't stop me going back,' said Nils Thil, who is determined to continue his
holiday in India with his wife, Maggie. 'It doesn't matter where you are,
terrorism is international now.'

Earlier that day, few holidaymakers had ventured to the capital's tourist sites
with chattering local schoolchildren outnumbering foreign visitors at the
atmospheric Qutb Minar, the world's tallest brick minaret.

However, London-based Alpesh Patel, of UK investment fund Praefinium, argues
India has more to fear from the credit crunch than extremists: 'Nothing has
changed. London, New York and Madrid have all suffered major terrorist attacks,
Mumbai is no different. The attacks don't affect whether a real estate project
gets built or not.'

It is the global crunch and India's home-grown liquidity constraints that have
put the brakes on many of the infrastructure projects which are desperately
required.

Although a fifth of India's 1.1 billion population is estimated to be living in
poverty, the country's rapid economic growth has swelled the ranks of the middle
class to an estimated 50 million, providing consumer goods companies with a sea
of demand. Each month 10 million people sign up for a mobile phone. Con sultancy
McKinsey predicts the middle class will grow to 583 million by 2025, comfortably
outnumbering the entire US population of around 350 million. 'Nothing will stop
smart global businesses pounding on India's door,' added Kaul. 'The truth is
India is not opening up as fast as businesses want.'

Brewer SABMiller is looking to convert a nation of tea drinkers, taking on
United Breweries' Kingfisher beer with brands such as Indus Pride and Foster's.
The beer market is growing at around 15 per cent per year, the fastest rate in
Asia, as young 'metros' in cities such as Mumbai and New Delhi use what is an
expensive drink as a symbol of their new buying prowess.

Jean-Marc Delpon de Vaux, managing director of SABMiller India, claims the
monsoon rains have had a greater impact on business than the global financial
crisis. 'Credit-dependent sectors such as cars and property are suffering. But
India is less dependent on exports - the potential of the internal market is
huge. Also the savings ratio is the highest in the world at 40 per cent.'

But last Thursday morning the vast Ambience mall on the outskirts of Delhi was
quiet, with assistants idling on their mobile phones. Dust hung in the air at
the half-finished centre, which prom ises 'room for a million smiles'. Jumbo
Electronics was offering large discounts with 19in plasma TVs starting at
R17,500 (£ 230). British import Marks & Spencer was also emphasising value in
its windows with mannequins showcasing complete men's and women's outfits at
R2,090 (£ 27) and R1,290 (£ 17).

Like in Britain, Indians' real income growth has been eroded by inflation - food
price inflation is at 9 per cent - while confidence has also been dented by
rising jobs losses. Tata Motors is reportedly cutting up to 6,000 jobs as, faced
by a collapse in demand, it scales back production. 'There has been a sobering
of consumption,' said Nambisan. 'The biggest problem is a lack of confidence, as
it means people will not spend, which is the engine that has been firing India.'

Broker Investec argues the uncertain economic outlook could hasten necessary
reforms, saying: 'The reforms of the early 1990s were triggered by a balance of
payments crisis and deteriorating government finances. Perhaps with liquidity
tight and the international economy facing intense dislocation, it will be poor
economic conditions that push through much needed reform.'

'We will fight back,' added Noon. 'Tough times do not last long but tough people
do. Mumbai will come back from this.'


LOAD-DATE: December 1, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2008 Guardian Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              122 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                             The Observer (London)

                               November 30, 2008

Escape: News: Terror attacks make Mumbai a no-go area for tourists, but tours
continue

SECTION: OBSERVER ESCAPE PAGES; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 248 words


Last week's terrorist attacks in Mumbai have meant a change of itinerary for
many tourists set to stay in or pass through the city in the coming days.

'We are rerouting all clients to other cities for the next week, in accordance
with Foreign Office advice,' says Phillip Hamilton-Grierson of Cox & Kings. The
Foreign Office (www.fco.gov.uk) is advising against all but essential travel to
the city. It warns that there is a high threat of terrorism throughout India,
but does not advise against general travel there.

For this reason, anyone wishing to cancel a holiday to India may find they have
to pay a cancellation charge. 'If clients ask for it, tour operators will remove
Mumbai from itineraries but they are under no obligation to offer a totally
different trip, because the Foreign Office advice only extends to one small part
of India,' says Frances Tuke, spokesperson for Abta.

With the airport still operating normally, some companies are continuing to take
passengers through the city, while others are offering customers the option to
change if they wish.

'We are calling clients travelling next week and amending the Mumbai section of
their itinerary,' says Lisa Cain-Jones of Kuoni. 'We will review the situation
on an ongoing basis.'

British Airways is currently operating a normal service to Mumbai, but is
offering its customers the opportunity to rebook flights for a later date or to
fly into an alternative airport.

For further travel advice go to www.guardian.co.uk/travel


LOAD-DATE: December 1, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2008 Guardian Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              123 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                                 Sunday Mercury

                               November 30, 2008
                                 First Edition

Brum terror mastermind was planning attack when he was killed;
EXCLUSIVE

BYLINE: BEN GOLDBY

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 716 words


INTELLIGENCE bosses are set to launch a probe into suspected links between
Birmingham born militant Rashid Rauf and last week's terror attack in Mumbai.

Security forces in India will examine connections between two Islamist Kashmiri
groups thought to be behind the Mumbai assault, which has claimed almost 200
lives, and Rauf, who was known to be a member of both terror groups.

Rauf, 27, from Ward End, Birmingham - an Al Qaeda suspect said to be the "key
player" behind the alleged liquid bomb plot to blow up transatlantic airliners -
was killed in a missile strike last Saturday in North Western Pakistan by an
unmanned US drone.

Sources have now revealed that he was planning a major attack at the time of his
death, and that the Mumbai murders show all the hallmarks of one of Rauf 's
"terror spectacular" plots.

The Indian Mujahidin, which carried out a blast in Delhi in September and warned
that they would strike next in Mumbai, is understood to have been behind this
week's terror outrage.

The group is made up of several different militant organisations, the most
dangerous of which are the Pakistani-based Kashmiri "freedom" movements
Lashkar-e-Toiba (LET) and Jaish-e-Mohammed (JEM).

Rauf was known to have strong links to both organisations.

He married a relative of JEM's founder and worked with LET to train British
jihadis who travelled to Pakistan. London 7/7 bombers Shehzad Tanweer and
Mohammed Siddique Khan both studied at an LET madrassa near Lahore in 2004.

Militant Last night, a terror expert told the Sunday Mercury: "It is understood
that this attack in Mumbai is the work of the Indian Mujahidin, based on plans
and support from Kashmiri groups based in Pakistan.

"The planning seems to have been done by an Islamist militant group called
Lashkar-e-Toiba and they have close links to other Kashmiri fighters including
Jaish-e-Mohammed.

"In Rashid Rauf we have a man who dreamed up an alleged plot to blow up 10
transatlantic planes. We know he plotted spectacular attacks and we knowthat we
was planning a terror operation when he was killed.

"This attack in Mumbai, with the synchronised terror strikes in multiple
locations, is certainly consistent with his approach to militant tactics."

Rauf fled to the tribal areas of North Western Pakistan in April, 2002 as West
Midlands Police tried to question him over the death of his uncle Mohammed Saeed
in Alum Rock.

The former Washwood Heath High School pupil sought sanctuary in his family's
ancestral village of Haveli Bagal after he was named as the prime suspect in his
uncle's murder.

He married a relative of JEM founder and spiritual leader Maulana Masood Azhar
in 2003 and turned to radical Islam.

Intelligence reports say he took an active role in planning terror attacks and
was the alleged ringleader of the liquid bomb plot to blowup 10 jetliners over
the Atlantic Ocean.

In August 2006, as spooks were monitoring the alleged airline bomb plot, Rauf,
who was under surveillance by both British and Pakistani secret services, was
connected by officers to LET and Al Qaeda and was known to be transferring cash
and instructions to members in the UK.

Although charges over the transatlantic plot were later dropped against Rauf,
the CIA continued to track his activities and he was held by Pakistani police as
detectives back in Birmingham sought his extradition over his uncle's murder.

But in December 2007 Rauf gave guards the slip at a roadside Mosque after a
hearing in Islamabad, and is believed to have fled back to the lawless tribal
regions of North Western Pakistan.

At the time of his death Rauf was meeting with Egyptian extremist and senior Al
Qaeda field commander Abu Zubair al-Masri in the tribal heartland of Waziristan.

Indian investigators will nowprobe the significance of that meeting, thought to
have been a "council of war" to discuss jihadi attacks against western targets,
and examine connections between LET, JEM and the Mumbai attacks.

Officials in London have insisted that there is no evidence yet that Britons
have taken part in the planning or execution of the Mumbai assault, although
they cannot rule it out.

Around 30 counter terrorism officers from the Met Police have now been sent to
India to help with the investigation.

ben.goldby@sundaymercury.net

LOAD-DATE: December 2, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:  Rashid Rauf before his escape from custody and, opposite, the scenes
in Mumbai yesterday

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


               Copyright 2008 Midland Independent Newspapers plc
                              All Rights Reserved

                              124 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                                 Sunday Mercury

                               November 30, 2008
                                 2 Star Edition

BRUM OPEN TO TERROR ATTACK

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 353 words


BRITISH security forces could not cope with a Mumbai-style terrorist attack in
Birmingham or other UK cities, the chairman of an influential parliamentary
committee warned last night.

Patrick Mercer said a new anti-terror unit was needed with "a battalion's worth"
of 500 highly specialised policemen and soldiers who could be called upon in
case of attack.

The chair of the Commons counter-terrorism sub committee said the Olympics in
London would be a "magnet" for terrorists and attacks like the one seen in India
"could just as well happen" in UK cities.

He said: "What can happen in Mumbai could just as well happen in Manchester or
Birmingham ... this style of attack is something we'd find very difficult to
cope with."

Asked if Britain was prepared for such an attack, the former Conservative Shadow
Homeland Security Minister said: "No, we have certain numbers of troops and
police available for these sorts of operations but we have to be clear, these
are large numbers of well armed, well disciplined terrorists.

Olympic threat "If we are going to have to cope with this sort of thing in the
future, not least that we've got the Olympic games coming up which will be like
a magnet for this sort of thing, we're going to have to think very carefully
about the number of specialist forces we have, how they are trained, how we
raise and organise more of these people, where we keep them, how we deploy them.

"We need to look at expanding this force up to about a battalion's worth,
probably about 500 of highly specialised and highly trained and above all
available policeman and soldiers who can be called upon in these sorts of
circumstances to deal with this sort of thing.

"It's nobody's fault, I'm not pointing the finger at the Government or the
Ministry of Defence but currently we don't have those resources there."

Responding to the remarks, Olympics minister Tessa Jowell said: "What people
should be assured (of) is that there is vigilance and constant reappraisal, and
that in relation to the Olympics the level of security provided will be
consistent and appropriate to the level of risk."

LOAD-DATE: December 2, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


               Copyright 2008 Midland Independent Newspapers plc
                              All Rights Reserved

                              125 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                              Your Local Guardian

                               November 30, 2008

Putney surveyor shot in Mumbai terror attack

BYLINE: Guardian Reporter

SECTION: WB NEWS (WB NEWS)

LENGTH: 162 words


A chartered surveyor from Putney was shot in the Mumbai massacre earlier this
week.

Intelligence services believe that around 10 men, armed with Kalashnikov rifles,
grenades and plastic explosives arrived in the city on Wednesday.

Harnish Patel, 29, was shot in the leg at the Leopold cafe on the first night of
the attacks.

In an interview with the Independent on Sunday, he said: "I was literally one
drink in. A gunman walked in and that was it.

"I was in the bar and we had one of those jugs with taps that you drink out of.

"And suddenly it just shattered, and you could hear a sound like fire crackers.

"I was so luck. He just let loose. It's unimaginable. Luckily he didn't keep his
finger down because if he did, I'd be dead."

Estimates of the number of dead and injured reach as high as more than 200
people dead and 300 wounded.

Around 100 British tourists and workers were caught up in what one of the
terrorists told Indian police officers was planned to be another 9/11.

LOAD-DATE: November 30, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2008 NewsQuest Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              126 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                       BBC Monitoring Europe - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                            December 1, 2008 Monday

Bosnian security services allege Salafis planning terrorist attacks

LENGTH: 828 words


Text of report by Bosnian edition of Croatian daily Vecernji list, on 23
November

[Report by Dejan Jazvic: "Salafi Movement Plotting Terrorist Attack in B-H]

The police and security services in Bosnia-Hercegovina have identified a group
that has the objective of carrying out a terrorist act with a political
background. Zlatko Miletic, director of the Bosnia-Hercegovina Federation Police
Administration, has confirmed this information, revealing only that members of
the Salafi movement are involved. In a discussion for Dnevni Avaz, he said that
the police are cooperating closely with the state prosecutor's office on the
complete exposure of this plan, one that could result in "a serious terrorist
act in Bosnia-Hercegovina."

Suicide Belt

The only thing certain for the time being is that several individuals who are
being thoroughly investigated by police and security institutions are involved.
Miletic also mentioned in that context a person who was detained not long ago
and who was found to have a suicide belt. It is known to the public that, in the
investigation of the terrorist attack on the FIS shopping centre in Vitez, the
police arrested Admir Ahmetspahic (32), called Usama of Zenica, with whom a
suicide belt, among other things, was found. Although little information is
known at the moment, it is obvious that the radical group that the police are
investigating has the objective of destabilizing the situation in
Bosnia-Hercegovina at a moment when internal political agreement on many crucial
issues is coming into view.

That the police and security services in Bosnia-Hercegovina have had information
for quite a long time already on the activities of dangerous groups that are
preparing terrorist attacks in the country can also be concluded from the latest
information on the security situation in Bosnia-Hercegovina delivered to the
state Parliament.

In the period to which the information relates, and that is the first half of
this year, the SIPA [Investigations and Protection Agency] conducted checks of a
considerable number of individuals and organizations that might be connected to
terrorist activities and groups.

Being followed at the same time are the movements of a certain number of
naturalized individuals in Bosnia-Hercegovina whose citizenship has been revoked
by the state commission for reviewing decisions on the naturalization of foreign
citizens in Bosnia- Hercegovina. The deportation of these individuals in the
coming period is possible, and some of them have sent certain threats against
senior officials in Bosnia-Hercegovina, the aforementioned information states.

Threats Sent

According to official Security Ministry data, the OSA [Intelligence and Security
Agency] did not arrive at a perception in this period that criminal acts that
could be categorized as international terrorism had been carried out, and the
SIPA submitted a total of six reports against seven individuals. The reports
relate to the abuse of positions or authority and unconscientious work in
service, and they were submitted against three individuals who worked on the
issuance of citizenship to individuals of Afro-Asian origin. Two reports relate
to the sending of threats to the Russian and Serbian Embassies, and three
reports against that same number of individuals relate to the manufacturing of
and trafficking in weapons and military equipment.

[Box] The First Salafi Missionaries Came to Bosnia-Hercegovina during the War

Salafis, or Islamic traditionalists, belong to the movement that emerged around
the teachings and activities of Sheik Muhammed bin Abdul-Wahhabi, a reformer
from the Arabian Peninsula. Even though they are known as Wahhabis in
Bosnia-Hercegovina - but in the world, as well - the followers of this movement
do not accept that appellation. That is a movement which opposes all innovations
in Muslim practice and teaching. The first Salafi missionaries came to
Bosnia-Hercegovina during the war. At the beginning, some of them were
humanitarian workers. During the war, however, they became something completely
different - in the militant and radical sense. It is thought that their main
strongholds are in minority, returnee communities of Bosniaks in the Serb
Republic. The often organize "excursions" or sojourns in the outdoors, where
they carry out training in reconnaissance, shooting, etc far from the eyes of
the public. They appeared after the war. Not long ago, a retired colonel said in
a statement for the media: "It can be concluded on the basis of the data that
about 40,000 people were paid. That is a small army, if one takes into
consideration the training in camps. If we assume that a mere one per cent of
them are ready to sacrifice themselves for higher goals by committing suicide or
some other terrorist act, it is easy to come up with the number of about 4,000
people, and it is necessary to reflect on that number."

Source: Vecernji list (Bosnia-Hercegovina edition), Zagreb, in Croatian 23 Nov
08

LOAD-DATE: December 1, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2008 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              127 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                            Birmingham Evening Mail

                            December 1, 2008 Monday
                             Black Country Edition

Attack threat to peace bid;
TERROR: Tension grows between India and Pakistan

BYLINE: Gary Marks

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 342 words


TENSION between India and Pakistan mounted today as a senior Mumbai policeman
claimed a Pakistani militant group was responsible for the terror attacks which
killed at least 174 people.

Joint Crime Police Commissioner Rakesh Maria told reporters the attackers were
from "a hardcore group in the Lashkar-e-Taiba".

The group has long been seen as a creation of the Pakistani intelligence service
to help wage a clandestine war against India in disputed Kashmir. It was banned
in Pakistan in 2002 under pressure from the US, a year after Washington and
Britain listed it as a terrorist group.

But Islamabad responded to the claims by stating it was prepared to move troops
to the Indian border if the diplomatic situation worsened.

And Pakistan's ambassador to the United States, Husain Haqqani, today said the
two nations must "work together" to defeat terrorism.

He said: "Talk about Pakistan being at fault is flawed for the simple reason the
terrorists are non-state actors and I don't think non-state state actors can be
curbed by two states going at each other.

"Pakistan and India need to work together to find out who these people are and
then make sure these people are put out of business."

He added: "India was the target, Pakistan's fledgling democracy is a target and
at the same time the India Pakistan peace process was the target."

The nuclear-armed rivals have fought three wars against each other, two over the
disputed region of Kashmir.

Senior figures in India's Government were under mounting pressure amid claims of
security failures before the terror outrages.

The country's top security official, home minister Shivraj Pati, resigned
yesterday as claims circulated that fishermen warned of suspicious trawlers in
waters off Mumbai but were ignored.

Home Secretary and Redditch MP Jacqui Smith said the nature of the attacks on
Mumbai would prompt a review of how Britain prepared itself against terrorism.

"International terrorism is able to develop, to evolve its threat and therefore
we need to evolve our response."

LOAD-DATE: December 1, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


               Copyright 2008 Midland Independent Newspapers plc
                              All Rights Reserved

                              128 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                                   Daily Star

                            December 1, 2008 Monday
                                U.K. 1st Edition

TERROR COPS FEAR 'MUMBAI ATTACK ' IN UK

BYLINE: EXCLUSIVE by TOM SAVAGE and JOSH LAYTON

SECTION: NEWS; 9

LENGTH: 323 words


RANTING Anjem Choudary launched an astonishing antiBritish tirade as terror
experts warned yesterday of a Mumbaistyle massacre in Britain.

The hate preacher called for apartheid in the UK just days after backing the
killers in India. And his supporters threatened to unleash "blood on the
streets".

Experts said the chance of a terror attack here has increased since last week's
gun rampage in Mumbai left nearly 200 dead.

Choudary, 41, spoke at a packed public meeting called "Not So Great Britain".

It was held at a council-owned arts centre in Southall, Middlesex, by Islam4UK.
com - a website he founded with banned hate preacher Omar Bakri Mohammad.

He branded Britain "filthy", accused children of being "prostitutes" and
demanded non-Muslims wear signs like the Nazis forced on the Jews in WWII.

Crazed Choudary said: "In Britain there are 230 rapes every day, that's 10 per
hour.

Supermarkets are selling poles for little children so they can become
prostitutes when they grow up. There's no comparison between our way of life and
theirs.

"In an Islamic state, non-Muslims will have to wear a sign to show what they are
- it should say Kaffir. We won't discriminate on height, race or appearance but
we will discriminate on faith." Earlier, Bakri spoke via videophone from
Lebanon.

Meanwhile, one of Choudary's henchmen at Islam4UK, which has close links to
banned group alMuhajiroun, warned: "You will know when the Muslims have ignited
an insurrection when there is blood on the streets of London and New York like
there is blood on the streets of Fallujah and Mumbai." MP Patrick Mercer, the
chairman of the Commons counter-terrorism committee, warned: "What can happen in
Mumbai can just as well happen in Manchester or Birmingham.

"This style of attack is something we would find very difficult to deal with."

.Last week 99% of Daily Star readers called for Choudary to be booted out of
Britain and police pledged to crack down on his rants.

LOAD-DATE: December 2, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: STORM: A sign points way to the conference in Southall and left Bakri,
who is now in Lebanon
RANT: Preacher Choudary

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2008 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS
                              All Rights Reserved

                              129 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                  Guardian.com

                                December 1, 2008

Mumbai terror attacks: Rice calls for 'transparency' from Pakistan

LENGTH: 712 words


The US secretary of state, Condoleezza Rice, today called for "total
transparency" from Pakistan over the Mumbai terror attacks as an angry India
blamed its neighbour for the mass killings.

"I don't want to jump to any conclusions myself on this, but I do think that
this is a time for complete, absolute, total transparency and cooperation and
that is what we expect [from Pakistan]," Rice told reporters travelling with her
to London, Reuters reported.

Rice was scheduled to meet David Miliband, the foreign secretary, later today in
London before travelling to India on Wednesday.

The US and UK have been urging restraint as India's government said it had
raised security to a "war level" and had obtained definite proof of a Pakistani
link to the killings.

Sri Prakash Jaiswal, India's minister of state for home affairs, said last night
that the country's "intelligence will be increased to a war level, we are asking
the state governments to increase security to a war level". The Press Trust of
India, India's official news agency, also reported that the government was
considering suspending the four-year-old peace process with its neighbour.

Jaiswal said there was "no doubt that the terrorists had come from Pakistan ...
We have evidence of their nationalities. We will reveal everything soon".

A police officer involved in the interrogation of the only attacker captured
alive by Indian commandos, named as Ajmal Amir Kasab, a 21-year-old Pakistani,
told Reuters the militants had spent months in Pakistan having military-style
training. It is believed 10 militants carried out the assault.

India's actions prompted Pakistan to say it would end military operations
against Islamist militants on the Afghan border, which are critical to the hunt
for al-Qaida-linked militants, due to the "unwanted conflict" with Delhi.

Pakistan's government has condemned the Mumbai assault as a "barbaric act of
terrorism" and denied involvement by any "state institutions". But the group
named by India, Lashkar-e-Taiba, has longstanding relationships with Pakistan's
security establishment.

In an interview published this morning, Pakistan's president, Asif Ali Zardari,
appealed to India not to punish his country, warning that "non-state actors"
could provoke the nuclear-armed neighbours into conflict.

"Even if the militants are linked to Lashkar-e-Taiba, who do you think we are
fighting?" he told the Financial Times.

As many schools and shops opened this morning for the first time since the
attacks on Wednesday evening, state government officials said the final siege
site to be cleared, the Taj Mahal hotel, had now been completely checked. The
death toll has now been put at 172, including 19 foreigners. One Briton was
among the dead.

"We were apprehensive about more bodies being found. But this is not likely. All
rooms in the Taj have been opened and checked," said a spokesman for
Maharashtra's state government.

In India, the government is struggling to contain public anger over the attacks
with demonstrators taking to the streets to vent their anger over the inability
to stop the killings.

The chief minister of Maharashtra state, Vilasrao Deshmukh, said today he had
offered to resign. India's home minister, Shivraj Patil, stepped down yesterday.

India's ruling Congress party, which faces a general election next year, has
been attacked by opponents for being soft on terrorism, a potent charge given
that India has suffered a major attack every month this year. The government
said last night it would urgently upgrade maritime and air security and look to
create a federal investigative agency.

The peace process between India and Pakistan now appears in doubt. "There is a
view in the government that India should suspend the peace process ... to show
that it is not going to take lightly the deadly carnage in Mumbai," the Press
Trust of India reported. It quoted sources as saying the government, "including
Prime Minister Manmohan Singh, is very upset as it feels that Pakistan has not
kept its promise made at the highest level to end terrorism directed at India".

Lashkar-e-Taiba, which is fighting Indian control of the disputed Kashmir
region, was behind a deadly 2001 assault on the Indian parliament that pushed
New Delhi and Islamabad to the brink of war.

LOAD-DATE: December 1, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


      Copyright  2008  Guardian Unlimited (© Guardian Newspapers Limited)
                              All rights reserved

                              130 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                  Guardian.com

                                December 1, 2008

Mumbai terror attacks: Rice calls for 'total transparency' from Pakistan

LENGTH: 774 words


The US secretary of state, Condoleezza Rice, today called for "total
transparency" from Pakistan over the Mumbai terror attacks as India's government
called the mass killings a "grave setback" to relations with its neighbour.

"What we are emphasising to the Pakistani government is the need to follow the
evidence wherever it leads," Rice told reporters travelling with her to London,
where she will meet David Miliband, the foreign secretary.

"I don't want to jump to any conclusions myself on this, but I do think that
this is a time for complete, absolute, total transparency and cooperation and
that's what we expect."

Rice has cut short her scheduled visit to Europe and will go to India on
Wednesday, as Washington steps up efforts to calm tensions between India and
Pakistan over the attacks, in which 172 people are known to have died.

India says it has proof the estimated 10 militants who went on the rampage at
two luxury hotels, a Jewish centre, a tourist cafe and other targets in the
commercial city had connections with Pakistan.

A police officer involved in the interrogation of the only attacker captured
alive told Reuters the militants had spent months in Pakistan having
military-style training.

India's junior foreign minister, Anand Sharma, said today all the gunmen were
now known to have come from Pakistan.

"What has happened is a grave setback to the process of normalisation of
relations and the confidence-building measures with Pakistan," he told the AFP
news agency. Pakistani leaders "must now deliver on their promise that Pakistan
will not allow its soil to be used for attacks in India", he added.

Sri Prakash Jaiswal, India's minister of state for home affairs, said last night
the country had stepped up intelligence efforts and that state governments were
being asked to "increase security to a war level".

The Press Trust of India, India's main news agency, also reported that the
government was considering suspending the four-year-old peace process with
Pakistan.

In reponse, Pakistan said it would end military operations against Islamist
militants on the Afghan border, which are critical to the hunt for
al-Qaida-linked militants, due to the "unwanted conflict" with Delhi.

Islamabad has condemned the Mumbai assault as a "barbaric act of terrorism" and
denied involvement by any "state institutions". But the group named by India,
Lashkar-e-Taiba, has longstanding relationships with Pakistan's security
establishment.

In an interview published this morning, Pakistan's president, Asif Ali Zardari,
appealed to India not to punish his country, warning that "non-state actors"
could provoke the nuclear-armed neighbours into conflict.

"Even if the militants are linked to Lashkar-e-Taiba, who do you think we are
fighting?" he told the Financial Times.

As many schools and shops opened this morning for the first time since the
attacks on Wednesday evening, state government officials said the final siege
site to be cleared, the Taj Mahal hotel, had now been completely checked. The
death toll has now been put at 172, including 19 foreigners. One Briton was
among the dead.

"We were apprehensive about more bodies being found. But this is not likely. All
rooms in the Taj have been opened and checked," said a spokesman for
Maharashtra's state government.

In India, the government is struggling to contain public anger over the attacks
with demonstrators taking to the streets to vent their anger over the inability
to stop the killings.

The chief minister of Maharashtra state, Vilasrao Deshmukh, said today he had
offered to resign. India's home minister, Shivraj Patil, stepped down yesterday.

India's ruling Congress party, which faces a general election next year, has
been attacked by opponents for being soft on terrorism, a potent charge given
that India has suffered a major attack every month this year. The government
said last night it would urgently upgrade maritime and air security and look to
create a federal investigative agency.

The peace process between India and Pakistan now appears in doubt. "There is a
view in the government that India should suspend the peace process ... to show
that it is not going to take lightly the deadly carnage in Mumbai," the Press
Trust of India reported. It quoted sources as saying the government, "including
Prime Minister Manmohan Singh, is very upset as it feels that Pakistan has not
kept its promise made at the highest level to end terrorism directed at India".

Lashkar-e-Taiba, which is fighting Indian control of the disputed Kashmir
region, was behind a deadly 2001 assault on the Indian parliament that pushed
New Delhi and Islamabad to the brink of war.

LOAD-DATE: December 1, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


      Copyright  2008  Guardian Unlimited (© Guardian Newspapers Limited)
                              All rights reserved

                              131 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                            The Independent (London)

                            December 1, 2008 Monday
                                 First Edition

India lashes out at old enemy;
Tensions mount as Pakistan is blamed for terror attacks in Mumbai We are at war
level, declares the Indian Prime Minister

BYLINE: Andrew Buncombe IN MUMBAI

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 813 words


Military tensions flared up yesterday between India and Pakistan as the
nuclear-armed neighbours engaged in a display of sabre-rattling in the aftermath
of the Mumbai terror attacks that have left at least 170 people dead.

With bodies still being recovered from the battle-scarred interior of the Taj
Mahal hotel and with the Indian authorities saying that most, if not all, of the
10 gunmen responsible came from Pakistan, Delhi announced that it was raising
security to a "war level". In response, Pakistan said that any escalation would
force it to redeploy troops battling militants in tribal areas to positions
along its eastern border with India.

Although the dispute shows no signs of reaching the level it was in 2002, when
the two countries came perilously close to conflict, the statements reflect the
anger and a sense of helplessness in India about the attacks that struck at its
soft underbelly.

The Indian government, which faces elections within months, will be keen to use
criticism of Pakistan to divert attention from its own failure to prevent the
attacks. Yesterday, the Congress Party-led administration announced that the
Home Minister and the national security advisor were to be replaced. It was also
claimed that the authorities had failed to act on a number of intelligence
warnings that an attack in Mumbai might be imminent.

Prime Minister Manmohan Singh, who chaired an all-party meeting to discuss the
situation, said there would be an overhaul of India's counter-terrorism
capabilities. Addressing criticism that the National Security Group elite
commandos took almost 10 hours to get to Mumbai from Delhi, he said that, from
now on, the strength of the so-called Black Cats would be boosted and they would
be stationed in four cities. He also said that air and sea security would be
improved.

"We share the hurt of the people and their sense of anger and outrage," he said
in Delhi. "Several measures are already in place. But clearly much more needs to
be done and we are determined to take all necessary measures to overhaul the
system."

US officials are attempting to ease the tensions between India and Pakistan. The
US Secretary of State, Condoleezza Rice, flies to Europe for talks in London
with the Foreign Secretary, David Miliband, today and will travel to India on
Wednesday.

Washington will particularly want to prevent Pakistan being distracted from the
military operations it is carrying out against militants in the north-west of
the country. Under pressure from the Bush administration, the Pakistani military
has been engaged in major operations against militants that are blamed for
carrying out cross-border attacks against Western troops in Afghanistan. The US
will do all it can to ensure those operations continue.

While India has not accused the Pakistani government of direct involvement in
the attacks, it has said it believes the 10 gunmen involved - including the sole
militant taken alive, Azam Amir Qasab - belonged to the Pakistan-based militant
group Lashkar-e-Toiba, which has previously been linked to elements within
Pakistan's ISI military intelligence agency.

Last night, a senior Mumbai police officer, the Joint Crime Police Commissioner
Rakesh Maria,said the militants involved were from a "a hardcore group in the
LeT".

Earlier a US counter-terrorism official said that some "signatures of the
attack" were consistent with the organisation and another militant group that
has been active in the disputed Kashmir region.

Amid such apparent evidence, some officials have used the opportunity to rally
against India's neighbour. "We will increase security and strengthen it at a war
level like we have never done it before," said Sriprakash Jaiswal, India's
Minister of State for Home Affairs. "They can say what they want, but we have no
doubt that the terrorists had come from Pakistan."

Pakistani officials have continued to offer support to India. A senior ISI
official is due to visit the country. Husain Haqqani, Pakistan's US Ambassador,
said: "Pakistan is a victim of terrorism. India is a victim of terrorism. The
victims need to get together. Forget about our bitter history."

Reports suggest that interrogation of Qasab had revealed extensive planning and
preparation for the attacks and that the militants had hoped to "kill up to
5,000 people".

As police continued to retrieve bodies from the Taj hotel, the Trident-Oberoi
remained sealed off.

But another site of an attack by militants - the Cafe Leopold - briefly
reopened. The famous tourist restaurant was one of the first attacked and was
opened for the first time since the violence but was then quickly closed by
police who said it had not obtained the required permission.

"I want [the attackers] to feel we have won, they have lost," said the
restaurant's manager Farzad Jehani. "We're back in action."

LEADING ARTICLE, PAGE 34

YASMIN ALIBHAI-BROWN, PAGE 37

LOAD-DATE: November 30, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: IA


                      Copyright 2008 Independent Print Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                              132 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                   The Mirror

                            December 1, 2008 Monday
                                 3 Star Edition

I'VE DONE NOTHING WRONG..;
AFTER THE MUMBAI ATTACKS COME THE SHOCKWAVES AND QUESTIONS WHAT SURVIVING
TERRORIST TOLD POLICE

BYLINE: BY NIKHITA MAHAJAN IN MUMBAI

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 578 words


THE sole surviving member of the terror group that brought carnage to Mumbai has
told police: "What I did was right. I have no regrets."

Officers are interrogating Azam Amir Kasav, 21, to try to discover how the
murderous rampage was planned and executed. But a police source said: "It is
very difficult to get information from him.

"He keeps asking us to kill him. And now he's starving himself in an attempt to
die.

"But Kasav is not sorry for what he's done. He's just sorry he got caught."

The Pakistan-born fanatic, who left school aged 10, has told investigators he
underwent months of training for his mission. And he said two of his colleagues
checked into the Taj Palace hotel four days before it became one of the main
targets.

The source said: "He admitted that two of the men checked into the Taj Palace
room 630 for four days before the siege. They were frequently visited by other
people who bought ammunition and supplies."

Some of the assassins also spent four months in Mumbai familiarising themselves
with the city in preparation for the assault.

The source said: "The men used fake ID cards from Mauritius and posed as
students. Two were working as a chef and a table boy at the Cama Hospital - the
hospital that was also attacked."

Kasav was shot and arrested after he opened fire during Wednesday night's
initial attack at Mumbai's central railway station. He has claimed he was
planning to go on to the Times of India newspaper office to kill staff there.

He was accompanied by sailor Abu Ismail, 25, who was shot dead by police. Kasav
and his co-assassins are thought to be from fanatical Islamic group
Lashkar-e-Tayyeba - the Army of the Pure. The source said they underwent
rigorous training in weapons, navigation and communications in a Pakistani
terror camp.

Zakiur Rahman, one of the founding members of Lashkar-e-Tayyeba, gave them a
lecture on becoming a holy warrior.

The team, all aged between 18 and 28, were so brainwashed they believed they
would all survive the Mumbai assault.

The source added: "Kasav still believes that this wasn't a suicide mission - all
the terrorists expected to come out of it alive."

Most of the assassins are said to have travelled to India in a stolen trawler.

They then used dinghies to land at a Mumbai jetty.

Sources say a satellite phone found in one of the dinghies shows the gang were
in touch with a key Lashkar-e-Tayyeba figure.

The Mumbai massacre death toll was yesterday scaled down to 172 but there could
still be bodies yet to be discovered.

Indian police now believe the attack on two hotels, a cafe and other tourist
sites was carried out by no more than 10 people.

Reports from one Mumbai hospital said the bodies of the nine dead terrorists
were covered in burns and bullet wounds.

One had lost two fingers and another had been shot in both eyes.

A hospital insider said: "All of them were young and of South Asian origin."

One witness said a gunman who attacked the Cama Hospital was with a woman.
Dayaram Vaghela, who lives in staff quarters behind the hospital, said: "A man
and a burkaclad woman entered from the gate opposite us. He started firing
towards the hospital. She wasn't armed."

Two Indian ministers resigned yesterday as pressure grew over claims warnings of
a terror strike were ignored.

The terrorist keeps asking us to kill him. Now he's starving himself in an
attempt to die

POLICE SOURCE

Kasav still believes this wasn't a suicide mission. They expected to come out of
it alive

POLICE SOURCE

LOAD-DATE: December 2, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: DEADLY HAUL Chilling stash of terrorists' guns recovered after the Taj
Mahal Palace siege; CHILLING CARNAGE Charred debris and bullet-riddled walls at
Jewish Nariman House HQ; SUDDEN TERROR Scene in Oberoi hotel diner; UNMOURNED
Corpse of one fanatic; POIGNANT VIGIL Mumbai locals light candles; YOUNG FANATIC
One of gunmen who launched the attack Picture: AP

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                            Copyright 2008 MGN Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              133 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                               PR Newswire Europe

                      December 1, 2008 Monday 9:53 AM GMT

TEZ TV First Flashed News, IBN 7 Gave the First Visual of the Mumbai Terrorist
Attack

LENGTH: 425 words

DATELINE: MUMBAI, India December 1


MUMBAI, India, December 1 /PRNewswire/ -- Esha News Monitoring Services Private
Limited with their research and analysis television monitoring team has found
out TEZ TV was the first to break the news through ticker at 2202hrs and IBN 7
gave the first visual of the Mumbai Terrorist Attack on the Taj Hotel at 2228
hrs.

Top 5 Channels broadcasting the news flash of Mumbai Terrorists Attacks

         Time                    News Channel
         22:02                      TEJ TV
         22:03                     AAJ TAK
         22:04                   SAHARA SAMAY
         22:06                     ZEE NEWS
         22:06                      IBN 7


Top 5 Channels broadcasting the first visuals of Mumbai Terrorists Attacks

         Time           News Channel         Location
         22:28             IBN 7             Taj Hotel
         22:30              BBC          Firing at Oberoi
         22:31            AAJ TAK             Oberoi
         22:32        HEADLINES TODAY         Leopold
         22:32           IBN LOKMAT             CST


Source: Esha News

Esha News has compiled this Television Monitoring Intelligence Report on Mumbai
Terrorist Attacks after carefully 24x7 tracking and monitoring of the television
coverage across 130 television channels. Television Monitoring Intelligence
Report highlights the brand visibility on the numerous television networks.

Facts about Mumbai Terrorist Attack news coverage

    2202hrs TEJ TV first to flash the news

    2228hrs IBN 7 gave the first visual of Taj under attack

    BBC first (International News Broadcast) to telecast  the news


About Esha News Monitoring Services Private Limited

Esha News Monitoring Services Private Ltd. is India's premier full-integrated
broadcast news monitoring and tracking agency. Esha is tracking more than 130
channels beamed into India with providing customized solutions. The product and
services supplement and are an invaluable tool for those involved in corporate
communications, public affairs, public relations and media relations. Esha
customises news reports that provide clients timely information to their drive
decision-making process. To know more about our services, please log on to
http://www.eshanews.com

    For further information, please contact:

    R. Iyer
    CEO, Esha News Monitoring Services Private Limited
    Mobile: +91-9820326630
    Email: iyer@eshanews.com , esha@vsnl.com


For further information, please contact: R. Iyer, CEO, Esha News Monitoring
Services Private Limited, Mobile: +91-9820326630, Email: iyer@eshanews.com ,
esha@vsnl.com

LOAD-DATE: December 2, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newswire


                   Copyright 2008 PR Newswire Europe Limited.
                              All Rights Reserved.

                              134 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring South Asia - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                            December 2, 2008 Tuesday

Indian navy admits "systemic failure" led to Mumbai terror attacks

LENGTH: 321 words


Text of report by Press Trust of India news agency

New Delhi, Dec 2 (PTI) The Indian Navy Tuesday [2 December] admitted that it was
a "systemic failure" on the part of the security and intelligence establishment
that led to the terror attacks in Mumbai and that lacunae did exist in India's
coastal security and intelligence sharing mechanisms.

It maintained that it did not receive any "actionable" input to effectively
prevent the tragedy.

Navy chief Admiral Sureesh Mehta told reporters here that it was "a systemic
failure" on the part of the security and intelligence establishment that led to
the terror strike and promised that the Indian government would come up with an
adequate response to the issues raised by the dastardly attacks that claimed
over 180 lives and left another 300 wounded.

"There is perhaps a lacuna that exists and we will work to sort this out. There
is a systemic failure which needs to be taken stock of. The response from the
government is going to be adequate," Mehta said at his annual press conference
ahead of the Navy Day observed on December 4.

Pointing out that the public outrage was definitely visible, the Navy chief,
responding to a query, said the government was fully conscious of it and the
debate that followed the Mumbai attacks.

"We have all seen it sitting in our drawing rooms. We are fully conscious of it
and the debate. The point is it is a serious issue...a serious matter of
security," he said.

Stating that exchange of information was an operational function, which went on
at fairly regular intervals, the Navy chief called for effective coordination
among the several agencies involved in intelligence gathering and security.

"There are several agencies involved and coordination is important. What is
important is the information available should be actionable. It should have some
specifics to it," he said.

Source: PTI news agency, New Delhi, in English 0957 gmt 2 Dec 08

LOAD-DATE: December 2, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2008 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              135 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                          The Guardian - Final Edition

                            December 2, 2008 Tuesday

Education: Higher: Public spaces, secret weapons: Academics call for more
courses to teach town planners how to prevent and mitigate terrorist attacks

BYLINE: Louise Tickle

SECTION: GUARDIAN EDUCATION PAGES; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 1136 words


Under the unfriendly glare of strip-lights in an anonymous seminar room on the
outskirts of Bristol, a group of about 50 people concerned with the development
of public spaces are thinking hard about how to prevent a terrorist attack.

"More people are killed by flying debris than by the bomb blast itself,"
observes Richard, who is leading the session, and works for the National Counter
Terrorism Security Office (NaCTSO), part of the Home Office. "To mitigate the
effects of a bomb blast, among other things, we need to think about controlling
access, reducing focal points, or creating smaller focal points, and types of
building materials."

As town planners of the future, he makes it plain that these MA students, who
are studying for the town and country planning MA at the University of the West
of England (UWE), will bear heavy responsibility for the effects of future
terrorist attacks in crowded places. As last week's attacks in Mumbai brought
home, town centres, transport hubs, hotels and other public spaces are
vulnerable to attack. But Richard emphasises that much can be done before a
single sod is dug in any new development to make a site less of a target and to
reduce the human carnage should the worst happen.

Vulnerable businesses

This session is taking place as part of NaCTSO's Project Argus, which has so far
developed training workshops in counter-terrorism measures for businesses that
feel they could be vulnerable. It is the first time this version, tailored
specifically to town planning, design and architecture students, has been aired
in public: as well as hoping to raise awareness of the issues, NaCTSO is looking
for feedback from UWE's students and tutors.

Various degree courses around the country allow students to look at how armed
militancy evolves, examine terrorist psychology and explore ways that
individuals who become heavily involved can move from violence to democratic and
peaceful political activism.

At Liverpool Hope, for instance, Neil Ferguson, associate professor of
psychology, teaches students as part of the university's criminology
undergraduate degree about the underlying causes of militant violence, how
perpetrators' motivation develops, and how they find themselves transformed by
their actions. There is an MA in terrorism, international crime and global
security at Coventry University, and a distance learning course in terrorism
studies at St Andrews.

But despite the UK's past as a target for IRA attacks, there has to date been
little training in this area for planning professionals whose decisions could
reduce the practical risk of an attack and mitigate its effects, says Sandra
Manley, principal lecturer in UWE's department of planning and architecture.

This is despite a growing demand for expertise in this area, says Aidan Potter,
director of urban design and masterplanning at John McAslan and Partners, which
is currently working on sensitive embassy projects in Delhi and Algiers, and is
also the lead architect for the prestigious development of King's Cross in
central London.

"Counter terrorism is increasingly fundamental in the design of government and
commercial buildings, and we think about these issues from the very beginning of
any such project," he says, going on to explain that particularly in the case of
government buildings, there is always a tension - and a balance to be struck -
between the accessibility required in a democracy, and the type of security
measures that can be designed in to prevent potential terrorists gaining entry.

Government guidance to local authority planners on the avoidance of crime is
soon to be updated, with advice on counter terrorism, hence Manley's willingness
to host the NaCTSO workshop, albeit with her academic antennae finely tuned for
potential propaganda: her introduction includes a warning to students to
critically assess the information they are given rather than swallowing it
whole.

Which is probably a good thing, because NaCTSO's opening gambit is a 10-minute
film of, at times, apocalyptic pronouncements about how our town centres will be
emptied of people acting on communal panic as we face increased threats of
terrorist attack. This is intercut with shots of a sinister narrator wandering
through a deserted shopping mall where half-drunk lattes have been abandoned on
cafe tables and a doll sits askew in a child's empty pushchair. Later in the
sequence an "academic" is interviewed for a mocked-up TV news bulletin, blaming
town planners for not doing more to guard against terrorist attacks.

It feels as though the whole room takes a deep breath as the film ends, but it
is only the precursor to a practical exercise during which Richard takes the
group through a computer animation of a multiple co-ordinated attack on a
fictional city-centre shopping square. The students are then asked to identify
the features that increased the impact of the attack, made the space more
vulnerable, and any measures that would have reduced the initial risk and
lessened the scale of the tragedy.

Richard Morison, 23, says the workshop has given him pause for thought. "The
numerous ways in which planners can mitigate for terrorist activities are
interesting. There seems to be a worryingly large potential that planning in the
past has been responsible for increasing casualties from terrorist activity," he
says.

"Counter-terrorism was not something I had previously considered," observes
fellow student, Graham Price, 23. "It was surprising how great an effect the
design of an area can have on its ability to cope with a terrorist attack."

Scaremongering

"Initially, I considered it to be scaremongering," says Jane Wormald, 31, "but
after reflecting on the day's events, it seems realistic after all, sadly."

Their course leader is more measured in her assessment of the dire messages
given out. "I think the session was rather front-loaded with the terror aspect
of terrorism. Look at the blitz - London was functioning and as close to normal
as possible in the face of a much greater threat," says Manley.

"The aftermath of recent terrorist attacks also demonstrates that the empty
streets - more like a post-nuclear war situation - depicted on the film are not
a correct interpretation. I happened to go to London just after the London
bombings and the streets looked pretty much as usual."

More studies of how counter-terrorism measures have been successfully integrated
into a public space without damaging other design objectives, and less of the
Apocalypse Now mentality, is her message to NaCTSO. But it is not a session she
thinks the students will forget, and next time they walk into a business
district, shopping centre or sports stadium, it may be that these town planners
of the future will be paying closer attention to the softness of the target
they're standing in.

LOAD-DATE: December 2, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2008 Guardian Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              136 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                               Leicester Mercury

                            December 2, 2008 Tuesday

We condemn heinous terrorist attacks

SECTION: Pg. 14

LENGTH: 100 words


The Oadby and Wigston Muslim Association (OWMA) are truly shocked and saddened
to hear of the heinous terrorist attacks carried out at various locations in
Mumbai over the last few days.

We vehemently condemn these indiscriminate and barbaric acts. Such acts have no
place in society, in whichever corner of the world, and the perpetrators must be
brought to justice without any leniency.

As a peaceful and loving Muslim community, we pay our respects to the deceased
and pass on our heartfelt condolences to their relatives and friends.

We also wish the injured a very speedy recovery.

Ashraf Ahmed, OWMA.

LOAD-DATE: December 3, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: 44


                        Copyright 2008 Leicester Mercury
                              All Rights Reserved

                              137 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                               Leicester Mercury

                            December 2, 2008 Tuesday

Terrorist attacks are condemned

SECTION: Pg. 6

LENGTH: 94 words


A Hindu association in Leicester has joined in condemning the Mumbai terrorist
attacks.

Ramanbahi Barber, public relations officer from Leicester's Gujurat Hindu
Association, said: "The Gujarat Hindu Association of Leicester and Leicester
Hindu Festival Council, strongly condemns the terrorism.

"We urge the government of India and all faiths throughout the world to unite
and fight against this barbaric act.

"We express our condolences to those people who have died, been injured and
those who have been held hostage."

The death toll from the outrage is more than 170.

LOAD-DATE: December 3, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: 44


                        Copyright 2008 Leicester Mercury
                              All Rights Reserved

                              138 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                               Leicester Mercury

                            December 2, 2008 Tuesday

We condemn heinous terrorist attacks

SECTION: Pg. 14

LENGTH: 100  words


The Oadby and Wigston Muslim Association (OWMA) are truly shocked and saddened
to hear of the heinous terrorist attacks carried out at various locations in
Mumbai over the last few days.

We vehemently condemn these indiscriminate and barbaric acts. Such acts have no
place in society, in whichever corner of the world, and the perpetrators must be
brought to justice without any leniency.

As a peaceful and loving Muslim community, we pay our respects to the deceased
and pass on our heartfelt condolences to their relatives and friends.

We also wish the injured a very speedy recovery.

Ashraf Ahmed, OWMA.

LOAD-DATE: June 11, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: 44


                        Copyright 2008 Leicester Mercury
                              All Rights Reserved

                              139 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                               Leicester Mercury

                            December 2, 2008 Tuesday

Terrorist attacks are condemned

SECTION: Pg. 6

LENGTH: 94  words


A Hindu association in Leicester has joined in condemning the Mumbai terrorist
attacks.

Ramanbahi Barber, public relations officer from Leicester's Gujurat Hindu
Association, said: "The Gujarat Hindu Association of Leicester and Leicester
Hindu Festival Council, strongly condemns the terrorism.

"We urge the government of India and all faiths throughout the world to unite
and fight against this barbaric act.

"We express our condolences to those people who have died, been injured and
those who have been held hostage."

The death toll from the outrage is more than 170.

LOAD-DATE: June 11, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: 44


                        Copyright 2008 Leicester Mercury
                              All Rights Reserved

                              140 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                               Leicester Mercury

                            December 2, 2008 Tuesday

We condemn heinous terrorist attacks

SECTION: Pg. 14

LENGTH: 100 words


The Oadby and Wigston Muslim Association (OWMA) are truly shocked and saddened
to hear of the heinous terrorist attacks carried out at various locations in
Mumbai over the last few days.

We vehemently condemn these indiscriminate and barbaric acts. Such acts have no
place in society, in whichever corner of the world, and the perpetrators must be
brought to justice without any leniency.

As a peaceful and loving Muslim community, we pay our respects to the deceased
and pass on our heartfelt condolences to their relatives and friends.

We also wish the injured a very speedy recovery.

Ashraf Ahmed, OWMA.

LOAD-DATE: August 21, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: 44


                        Copyright 2008 Leicester Mercury
                              All Rights Reserved

                              141 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                               Leicester Mercury

                            December 2, 2008 Tuesday

Terrorist attacks are condemned

SECTION: Pg. 6

LENGTH: 94 words


A Hindu association in Leicester has joined in condemning the Mumbai terrorist
attacks.

Ramanbahi Barber, public relations officer from Leicester's Gujurat Hindu
Association, said: "The Gujarat Hindu Association of Leicester and Leicester
Hindu Festival Council, strongly condemns the terrorism.

"We urge the government of India and all faiths throughout the world to unite
and fight against this barbaric act.

"We express our condolences to those people who have died, been injured and
those who have been held hostage."

The death toll from the outrage is more than 170.

LOAD-DATE: August 21, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: 44


                        Copyright 2008 Leicester Mercury
                              All Rights Reserved

                              142 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                                  Morning Star

                            December 2, 2008 Tuesday

Sport - Cricket - Terrorism threatens India's hegemony;
The Mumbai attacks dented India's status as sport's leader

BYLINE: Jon Gemmell

LENGTH: 657 words


Any discussion on whether England should continue their tour to India needs to
consider the following points: the team had been staying in the Taj Mahal hotel
the week before and all of their white kit, including blazers and caps, was
locked away in a room there when the fanatics attacked.

The Middlesex team were due to check into the same hotel a day after the siege
started and the England high performance squad were meant to be staying in
Mumbai last week, but for some reason had their training camp switched at the
last minute.

During 2008, India has witnessed blasts in Jaipur (during the IPL games),
Bangalore, Ahmedabad, Delhi, Guwahati (during Australia's tour), and now in
Mumbai.

If this was Pakistan or Sri Lanka, of course, there would be no discussion - the
tour would have been cancelled straight away. However, India is the economic
powerhouse, has a grip on the international game and has the England players
falling over themselves to express their desire to play in the lucrative Indian
Premier League.

Now, the Champions League, in which Middlesex were about to set out to join, has
been temporarily postponed, while the rival Indian Cricket League has been
cancelled. If these are troubled times for India, it is only natural that the
sport many consider akin to a religion will share in any grief.

This would not be the first time that England have been unable to fulfil its
obligations in India. They were due in the autumn of 1930, but plans were
scuppered following a nationalist revival in which Congress issued an
independence pledge that denounced the British for having "ruined India
economically, politically, culturally and spiritually." To submit further to
their rule was "a crime against man and God."

England were also due to set sail in the autumn of 1939, but were prevented by
the outbreak of war.

Within three hours of the England team landing in 1984, India's prime minister
Indira Ghandi was assassinated and the tour was immediately under threat. Most
of the players wanted to abort, but were at the behest of a cricket board that
negotiated an amended itinerary that was played against a country in mourning.

The next visit was due in 1988-9, but it was cancelled because of the
connections of a number of English players, notably newly named captain Graham
Gooch, to racist South African cricket.

The Indian government took a firm stand against racism in sport and they were
thanked by their South African counterparts by being the first country that they
visited on their reintroduction to the international arena.

War and politics provided interruptions to relations between India and England,
but terrorism threatens something far more sinister. Already Lalit Modi, the
Indian Board vice-president and head of the IPL, has professed his fears of
India going the way of Pakistan, who play very little home international
cricket, if attacks continue.

This has much wider repercussions than just India. Cricket Australia, for
example, has lost "millions of dollars" from the postponement of the Champions
League.

The Pakistan Board have said that the situation regarding India's visit to their
country in January 2009 has now changed considerably, following the attacks in
Mumbai.

The Indians in return are under pressure from their government to cancel their
tour to Pakistan, as they look to the neighbours for someone to blame for the
atrocities.

As for England, by opting to return home, you feel that the decision not to
carry on with the tour has already been taken. In 1984, by contrast, the side
retired to Sri Lanka while the situation calmed down.

Where does all this put India's dominance of world cricket? It may generate
nine-tenths of the sport's income but, if the likes of Australia, England and
South Africa refuse to play there, their plan for the direction of the sport,
notably the commercial potential of Twenty20, could be jeopardised.

Maybe more than just the spirit of a city died last week.

LOAD-DATE: December 2, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


               Copyright 2008 People's Press Printing Society Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                              143 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                                The Western Mail

                            December 2, 2008 Tuesday
                                 First Edition

India 'expects' strong Pakistan action over terror attack

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 378 words


SOLDIERS removed the last bodies from the shattered Taj Mahal hotel yesterday as
India formally demanded Pakistan take "strong action" against those responsible
for the Mumbai massacres.

The three-day terror attack was apparently carried out by just 10 gunmen and
exposed the weakness of India's security forces.

The country's top law enforcement official resigned amid growing criticism that
the attackers appeared better trained, better co-ordinated and better armed than
police.

An Indian police official said the only gunman captured alive after the attacks
claimed to belong to Lashkar-e-Taiba, a Pakistani militant group with links to
the disputed Himalayan region of Kashmir. The group has long been seen as a
creation of the Pakistani intelligence service.

Pakistan must "follow the evidence wherever it leads," US Secretary of State
Condoleezza Rice said.

In India, Pakistan's high commissioner to the country was called to the foreign
ministry and told that "elements from Pakistan" had carried out the attacks.

The commissioner was told that India "expects that strong action would be taken
against those elements," a spokesman said.

Pakistani President Asif Ali Zardari said the men who attacked India's financial
and entertainment capital had no links to any government. He called the
attackers "non-state actors," and warned against letting their actions lead to
greater enmity in the region.

"Such a tragic incident must bring opportunity rather than the defeat of a
nation," he said. "We don't think the world's great nations and countries can be
held hostage by non-state actors."

The top provincial official, Vilasrao Deshmukh, offered to resign yesterday, as
did his deputy, RR Patil, who outraged many by referring to the attacks as
"small incidents."

In Mumbai, security forces declared the landmark 565-room Taj Mahal hotel - the
scene of Saturday's final battle - cleared of booby traps and bodies.

"We were apprehensive about more bodies being found. But this is not likely -
all rooms in the Taj have been opened and checked," said Maharashtra state
government spokesman Bhushan Gagrani.

The army had already cleared other sites, including the five-star Oberoi hotel
and the Mumbai headquarters of an ultra-Orthodox Jewish group.

LOAD-DATE: December 2, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:  ATTACKER: Ajmal Qasab, the terrorist who was captured alive

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                    Copyright 2008 Western Mail and Echo Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                              144 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                    BBC Monitoring Asia Pacific - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                           December 3, 2008 Wednesday

Official says no Malaysia link to Mumbai terror attacks

LENGTH: 211 words


Text of report in English by Malaysian official news agency Bernama website

NEW DELHI, Dec 2 (Bernama) - Six days after the worst terror attack on Mumbai
which left 171 people including 26 foreign nationals dead, the city's police
refuted the earlier claim of a Malaysian link.

Malaysian Consul-General in Mumbai Wan Zaidi Wan Abdullah said the Mumbai police
informed him today that so far the ongoing probe did not indicate any
association with Malaysia.

"They denied any link to Malaysia so far. Early rumours yet to be
substantiated," he told Bernama after attending a special briefing by the
protocol division in Mumbai.

"I have personally spoken to the Mumbai commissioner of police (Hasan Gafoor)
and he said there was no such links so far," he added.

News reports surfaced last week that the assailants had used Malaysian addresses
to rent houses in Colaba area in the southern part of the city where they struck
with AK-47 rifles and hand grenades.

There were also reports that a credit card issued in Malaysia was found on one
of the dead terrorists.

Earlier, Joint Commissioner of Police (Crime) Rakesh Maria also denied reports
that terrorists staying in Colaba used Malaysian student identity cards.

Source: Bernama website, Kuala Lumpur, in English 0021 gmt 2 Dec 08

LOAD-DATE: December 3, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2008 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              145 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                                Birmingham Post

                           December 3, 2008 Wednesday
                                  1ST Edition

Call for Pakistan to hand over terror suspects after attacks;
INTERNATIONAL

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 22

LENGTH: 254 words


India has demanded that Islamabad hand over dozens of suspected terrorists
believed to be living in Pakistan, including India's most wanted man.

Foreign Minister Pranab Mukherjee said the names of about 50 people were given
to Pakistan's high commissioner to India.

The list includes Dawood Ibrahim, the alleged mastermind of the 1993Mumbai
bombings and India's most wanted. He is thought to be living in Pakistan, though
Islamabad denies that.

The demand comes in the wake of the deadly Mumbai attacks by terrorist gunmen
which lasted three days, left 172 people dead and 239 injured.

It emerged yesterday that India was warned of a possible terrorist attack by US
intelligence officials before the Mumbai massacre.

A senior official in the Bush administration said information was passed on that
terrorists appeared to be plotting a mostly waterborne attack on India's
financial capital.

The news comes with the Indian government already facing widespread accusations
of security and intelligence failures.

One Indian official admitted it picked up intelligence in recent months that
Pakistan-based terrorists were plotting attacks in Mumbai. The information was
then relayed to security authorities, said the official. But it is unclear if
the government acted on the intelligence.

Indian officials were continuing to interrogate the only surviving attacker, who
reportedly told police that he and the other nine gunmen had trained for months
in camps operated by the banned Pakistani militant group Lashkar-e-Taiba.

LOAD-DATE: December 3, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


               Copyright 2008 Midland Independent Newspapers plc
                              All Rights Reserved

                              146 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                      Coventry Evening Telegraph (England)

                           December 3, 2008 Wednesday
                                 Final Edition

TERROR ATTACKS ON CITY TRAFFIC WARDENS;
They've been threatened, assaulted - and even shot at

BYLINE: By Jenny Waddington

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 107 words


FORTY FIVE traffic wardens have been seriously assaulted in Coventry in the last
year.

They've been sworn at, threatened, hit and even shot at while patrolling the
city's streets looking for drivers parked illegally.

The city council, which manages the traffic wardens, is now planning a get-tough
approach to deal with the attacks. Councillor Hazel Noonan, cabinet member for
city services, said: "Physical or verbal abuse is a very serious crime. The
officers are only doing their jobs, and should not be subject to attacks."

"Council policy is to protect employees while they carry out their duties - and
that includes prosecution if necessary."

LOAD-DATE: December 3, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: FACING DANGER...A warden on duty in Coventry.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2008 Coventry Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              147 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                      Coventry Evening Telegraph (England)

                           December 3, 2008 Wednesday
                              Warwickshire Edition

TRAFFIC WARDENS FACING TERROR ATTACKS;
They've been threatened, attacked - and even shot at

BYLINE: By Jenny Waddington

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 110 words


FORTY-FIVE traffic wardens have been seriously assaulted in Coventry in the last
year.

They've been sworn at, threatened, hit and even shot at while patrolling the
city's streets looking for drivers parked illegally.

The city council, which manages the traffic wardens, is now planning a gettough
approach to deal with the attacks.

Councillor Hazel Noonan, cabinet member for city services, said: "Physical or
verbal abuse is a very serious crime. The officers are only doing their job, and
should not be subject to attacks."

"Council policy is to protect employees while they carry out their duties - and
that includes prosecution if necessary."

Full story, Page 5

LOAD-DATE: December 3, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: FACING DANGER...A traffic warden on duty in Coventry.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2008 Coventry Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              148 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                          The Daily Telegraph (London)

                           December 3, 2008 Wednesday

India failed to act on warnings of Bombay terrorist attack

BYLINE: Damien McElroy in Bombay and Rahul Bedi

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 221  words


INDIA was given repeated warnings about the threat of a terrorist attack on
Bombay (Mumbai) in the month before last week's massacre.

The United States handed over intelligence suggesting an assault by boat
targeting landmarks including the Taj Mahal Hotel. Indian officials admitted
yesterday that there had been intelligence failures in the days before 10
terrorists killed nearly 200 civilians.

Hassan Gafoor, the Bombay police chief, said that the security authorities were
given "an alert that hotels like Taj could be exposed to such danger''.

Admiral Sureesh Mehta, the head of the navy, said there had been "systemic''
failures in handling the intelligence.

It also emerged that a telephone call was intercepted on Nov 18 indicating that
an attack was planned, but military and civil security services failed to act on
the warnings.

The revelations came as India called on foreign intelligence agencies to help to
"neutralise'' the threat from Pakistan-based terrorist groups.

Meanwhile, the England and Wales Cricket Board was locked in talks with the
Foreign Office over whether the England team should return to India this week.
The players want increased security.

Writing in today's Daily Telegraph, Geoffrey Boycott accuses the ECB of putting
the players in an impossible position and calls for the trip to be cancelled.

LOAD-DATE: December 3, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2008 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              149 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                            Daily Post (North Wales)

                           December 3, 2008 Wednesday
                              North Wales Edition

US warned India of potential terrorist attack

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 140 words


INDIA was warned of a terrorist attack by US intelligence officials before the
Mumbai massacre, it emerged yesterday.

A senior official in the Bush administration said they passed on information
that terrorists appeared to be plotting a mostly waterborne attack on India's
financial capital.

The news comes with the Indian government already facing widespread accusations
of security and intelligence failures after the three-day attack which killed
172 people and wounded 239.

One Indian official admitted it picked up intelligence in recent months that
Pakistan-based terrorists were plotting attacks against Mumbai targets.

The information was then relayed to domestic security authorities. But it is
unclear if the government acted on the intelligence.

Indian officials yesterday continued to interrogate the only surviving attacker.

LOAD-DATE: December 3, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:  The body of Leibish Teitelbaum, killed in the Mumbai Jewish centre
attack, is carried by the crowd at his funeral in Jerusalem yesterday

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2008 Trinity Mirror plc
                              All Rights Reserved

                              150 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                              Gloucestershire Echo

                           December 3, 2008 Wednesday

Luck was on our side in terror attack

SECTION: Pg. 9

LENGTH: 338 words


As the world comes to terms with the horrors of the Mumbai terrorist attacks, a
Stroud woman who cheated death by 20 minutes says she feels lucky to be back
home.

Journalist Morwenna Grills was in the Indian financial capital on the final leg
of a 20-month round-the-world trip with partner Edwin Mitson when gunmen stormed
several tourist spots.

The 27-year-old said she is glad to be back at her parents' home in
Minchinhampton.

"We had been in the Leopold Cafe having a few drinks before moving on to another
bar," said Morwenna.

"We left at around 9pm and as we were walking we heard gunfire and people
started running and shouting and telling us to run.

"People were pushing and urging us to get inside one of the shops  and when we
were in, we could hear the gunfire outside."

She added: "The manager had a look and told us he could see someone dying on the
floor."

Morwenna and Edwin, 28, both former BBC journalists, say they were lucky to
escape with their lives.

Just 20 minutes after they left the Leopold Cafe it was attacked by gunmen.

Morwenna said: "When we were going back to our hotel we met a couple who had
been in the cafe when the gunmen attacked.

"They were  terrified and I just really hope they made it. I feel incredibly
lucky when I think about the timing of it all.

"If we'd stayed 20 minutes longer, I wouldn't be finding it so easy to tell my
story."

While Morwenna and Edwin were running for their lives in Mumbai, Morwenna's
mother Jo -  director of learning and development at Gloucestershire County
Council  - and father Malcolm were watching the horror unfold at home.

Morwenna said: "I phoned home and, even though it was 5am, my mum answered
instantly  so I knew it was all over the news.

"We didn't really get to grips with the scale of it all, especially the hostage
situation at the Taj Hotel, which is a Mumbai landmark.

"It was surreal, frightening and at the same time bewildering, but it won't put
me off travelling.

"This sort of thing can happen anywhere in the world, and I feel so lucky to be
alive."

LOAD-DATE: December 4, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: 32


                      Copyright 2008 Gloucestershire Echo
                              All Rights Reserved

                              151 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                              Gloucestershire Echo

                           December 3, 2008 Wednesday

Luck was on our side in terror attack

SECTION: Pg. 9

LENGTH: 338  words


As the world comes to terms with the horrors of the Mumbai terrorist attacks, a
Stroud woman who cheated death by 20 minutes says she feels lucky to be back
home.

Journalist Morwenna Grills was in the Indian financial capital on the final leg
of a 20-month round-the-world trip with partner Edwin Mitson when gunmen stormed
several tourist spots.

The 27-year-old said she is glad to be back at her parents' home in
Minchinhampton.

"We had been in the Leopold Cafe having a few drinks before moving on to another
bar," said Morwenna.

"We left at around 9pm and as we were walking we heard gunfire and people
started running and shouting and telling us to run.

"People were pushing and urging us to get inside one of the shops  and when we
were in, we could hear the gunfire outside."

She added: "The manager had a look and told us he could see someone dying on the
floor."

Morwenna and Edwin, 28, both former BBC journalists, say they were lucky to
escape with their lives.

Just 20 minutes after they left the Leopold Cafe it was attacked by gunmen.

Morwenna said: "When we were going back to our hotel we met a couple who had
been in the cafe when the gunmen attacked.

"They were  terrified and I just really hope they made it. I feel incredibly
lucky when I think about the timing of it all.

"If we'd stayed 20 minutes longer, I wouldn't be finding it so easy to tell my
story."

While Morwenna and Edwin were running for their lives in Mumbai, Morwenna's
mother Jo -  director of learning and development at Gloucestershire County
Council  - and father Malcolm were watching the horror unfold at home.

Morwenna said: "I phoned home and, even though it was 5am, my mum answered
instantly  so I knew it was all over the news.

"We didn't really get to grips with the scale of it all, especially the hostage
situation at the Taj Hotel, which is a Mumbai landmark.

"It was surreal, frightening and at the same time bewildering, but it won't put
me off travelling.

"This sort of thing can happen anywhere in the world, and I feel so lucky to be
alive."

LOAD-DATE: June 11, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: 32


                      Copyright 2008 Gloucestershire Echo
                              All Rights Reserved

                              152 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                                  Morning Star

                           December 3, 2008 Wednesday

Sport - Cricket - Mumbai terror attacks 'won't affect 2011 World Cup'

LENGTH: 168 words


The Pakistan Cricket Board dismissed reports on Tuesday suggesting that the 2011
World Cup could be moved away from the subcontinent after the Mumbai attacks.

The tournament is due to be co-hosted by Pakistan, India, Bangladesh and Sri
Lanka, but Cricket Australia have reportedly raised security concerns after
almost 200 people were killed by terrorists.

Australia pulled out of a scheduled tour of Pakistan in April this year due to
security fears.

The Champions Trophy, due to be held in September in Pakistan, was postponed for
13 months and the International Cricket Council are prepared to move the
tournament if safety remains an issue.

Reports claimed that the ICC were likewise preparing a standby venue for the
2011 World Cup.

However, PCB chief operating officer Saleem Altaf insisted that plans to host
the tournament were going ahead as scheduled.

"We have not received any intimation from the ICC regarding a change of venue
and, as far as we are concerned, there is no change in venue," said Altaf.

LOAD-DATE: December 3, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


               Copyright 2008 People's Press Printing Society Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                              153 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                PA Regional Newswire of English Regions: LONDON

                     December 3, 2008 Wednesday 5:03 PM BST

REFUGEES 'ENCOURAGED TERRORIST ATTACKS IN PAKISTAN'

SECTION: PA Regional Newswire for English Regions

LENGTH: 291 words


Two refugees, one from north London, researched military weapons and bomb-making
methods from the UK while they encouraged terrorist attacks in their homeland,
Pakistan, a court has been told.

Faiz Baluch, 26, and Hyrbyair Marri, 40, supported banned organisation the
Baluchistan Liberation Army (BLA), Woolwich Crown Court heard.

Prosecuting, Max Hill told the jury that material including films and videos of
the BLA carrying out bomb attacks and killing Pakistani soldiers was found on a
computer at Baluch's home in Mount Pleasant, Wembley.

The court heard that information on different types of home-made explosive
devices had also been accessed, and that police found copies of texts on tactics
for guerrilla warfare at the house.

Parts of a damaged computer hard drive were found on top of a kitchen cupboard
at Baluch's home, which the prosecution said he deliberately wrecked so no data
could be retrieved.

It was also claimed that information on mobile phones and internet search
histories was purposely erased.

Analysis of Marri's computer showed he had searched for information on
military-grade weapons and terms such as ``airborne combat'', the court was
told, and there was evidence that he issued rallying cries via a website
encouraging action to gain independence for Baluchistan.

Messages included: ``The Baloch were masters of a sovereign state. They cannot
tolerate the Pakistani slavery,'' and ``This war shall continue until the
Punjabi mercenary army is driven out of our homeland.''

More than 50 mobile phones, 69 SIM cards and satellite phone equipment were
recovered from the men's London homes.

Journalist Marri and student Baluch are accused of inciting acts of terrorism,
including murder, ``wholly or partly outside the UK''. end

LOAD-DATE: December 3, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newswire


                  Copyright 2008 The Press Association Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              154 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                          Press Association Mediapoint

                     December 3, 2008 Wednesday 4:41 PM BST

REFUGEES 'ENCOURAGED TERRORIST ATTACKS IN PAKISTAN'

BYLINE: Margaret Davis, Press Association

SECTION: HOME NEWS

LENGTH: 319 words


Two refugees researched military weapons and bomb-making methods from the UK
while they encouraged terrorist attacks in their homeland Pakistan, a court was
told today.

Faiz Baluch, 26, and Hyrbyair Marri, 40, supported banned organisation the
Baluchistan Liberation Army (BLA), Woolwich Crown Court heard.

Prosecuting, Max Hill told the jury that material including films and videos of
the BLA carrying out bomb attacks and killing Pakistani soldiers was found on a
computer at Baluch's home in Mount Pleasant, Wembley, north London.

The court heard that information on different types of home-made explosive
devices had also been accessed, and that police found copies of texts on tactics
for guerrilla warfare at the house.

Parts of a damaged computer hard drive were found on top of a kitchen cupboard
at Baluch's home, which the prosecution said he deliberately wrecked so no data
could be retrieved.

It was also claimed that information on mobile phones and internet search
histories were purposely erased.

Analysis of Marri's computer showed he had searched for information on
military-grade weapons and terms such as ``airborne combat'', the court was
told, and there was evidence that he issued rallying cries via a website
encouraging action to gain independence for Baluchistan.

Messages included: ``The Baloch were masters of a sovereign state. They cannot
tolerate the Pakistani slavery,'' and ``This war shall continue until the
Punjabi mercenary army is driven out of our homeland.''

More than 50 mobile phones, 69 SIM cards and satellite phone equipment were
recovered from the men's London homes.

Journalist Marri and student Baluch are accused of inciting acts of terrorism,
including murder, ``wholly or partly outside the UK''.

Baluchistan is the largest of the four provinces which make up Pakistan, and in
recent years has seen an insurgency by militants who want independence.

The case continues tomorrow.

LOAD-DATE: December 4, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newswire


                  Copyright 2008 The Press Association Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              155 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                            Stroud News and Journal

                           December 3, 2008 Wednesday

Young traveller escapes terror attacks

BYLINE: David Wiles

SECTION: NEWS (SNJ NEWS)

LENGTH: 504 words


A YOUNG traveller heard gunfire and an explosion as she escaped the Mumbai
terror attacks, which killed at least 172 people.

Mo Grills, 27, daughter of former Stroud High headteacher Jo Grills, was in a
bar with her boyfriend Ed Mitson, 28, only minutes before it was targeted by
gunmen.

She was in India's economic capital as the final stop of a journey back from New
Zealand, where she had been working since March 2007.

Speaking to the SNJ from her hotel room in India, she said: "We're very lucky to
be alive, especially as we left the first bar that had been attacked.

"It was quite frightening but it didn't sink in until the morning when I saw the
newspapers and the media reports."

The attacks started last Wednesday at about 9.30am after the couple had enjoyed
drinks in Café Leopold and were walking back to their hotel.

"We heard what sounded like gunfire and people started running down the street
towards us shouting 'firing', 'firing'," she said.

"All of the trinket stall holders were shutting up.

"We just bolted into a shoe shop as they were pulling the shutters down."

The couple, both former BBC journalists, stayed in the shop for about 20 minutes
until the gunfire died away.

Café Leopold had been attacked by gunmen, causing many causalities.

"Then the manager of the shop went outside to look and he said he could see
someone bleeding on the street who had obviously been shot," said Mo.

"After about 20 minutes, the traffic started moving again and some people were
walking on the pavement."

The couple walked down some back streets towards the Taj Mahal Palace hotel,
where a group of 20 people were being held hostage.

"As we got near there, crowds depleted again and people were running," she said.

"Then we got carried into a restaurant through the kitchen because the owners
were saying it was not safe to go outside.

"We waited for about half an hour and all the people started leaving and as we
walked behind the back of the Taj Mahal Palace hotel, I heard what I thought
might've been an explosion."

The couple, who had also been in the train station only two nights before it was
targeted, ran back to their hotel room.

Meanwhile in Minchinhampton, her mother Jo Grills, the county council's director
of learning and development, was watching the news with husband Malcolm.

"It was a bit of a shock seeing it unfolding on TV," she said.

"There was a great sense of hopelessness.

"We knew she couldn't possibly be in the expensive hotels but as it was in the
centre of the tourist area I was worried she would be there.

"We called the Foreign Office emergency number but couldn't get through."

They finally went to bed at 2am and received a call from Mo at 5am.

"It was tremendous relief," she said.

"She was apologising for phoning so early not realising what a huge story it
was."

Mo flew back to Britain on Friday and returned to her mother's home in
Cirencester Road on Saturday.

* The chief minister of the Indian state of Maharashtra offered to resign on
Monday amid criticism of the handling of the Mumbai attacks.

LOAD-DATE: August 23, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2008 NewsQuest Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              156 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                      Western Morning News (Plymouth, UK)

                           December 3, 2008 Wednesday

Caddick happy to go;
Former England bowler Andrew Caddick, who pulled out of a tour to India in 2001
amid security concerns, insists he would be willing travel to the sub-continent
following last week's terrorist attacks in Mumbai.

BYLINE: Myles Hodgson

SECTION: Pg. 33

LENGTH: 651 words


England players and management flew home from India at the weekend after the
remaining matches of their one-day series were scrapped in the wake of the
tragedy.

They are due back to play two Tests this month, with the venues having been
switched to Chennai and Mohali by the Board of Control for Cricket in India in
an attempt to allay safety fears.

England security consultant Reg Dickason is among a party currently in India to
draw up a safety report, which will play a major part in the squad's final
decision on whether to return.

In 2001, Caddick and spinner Robert Croft opted out of an Indian tour following
the September 11 attacks in the United States. However, if the security report
if favourable, the Somerset seamer claims he would be happy to go in the current
circumstances.

"The big difference between now and then is that the ECB do have a very good
security team, they've got a very good leader (Dickason) who looks after the
players' security, and they'll be leaning on him a lot and asking his advice as
to whether the tour will be safe," said Caddick. "But I'm sure it will be
compared to 9/11, it will be a lot safer than it was back then.

"In 2001, there were nine players on that tour who didn't want to go, and a few
of them were forced to go due to different circumstances, and there were a few
management who didn't want to go as well.

"Even I was pressurised into going, but thankfully myself and Mr Croft were
advised that it wasn't going to be held against us.

"I'm hoping that with the relationship between the players and the ECB, the ECB
won't hold it against the players if they feel that their security and
well-being is (more important) than the game of cricket.

"You've got to feel sorry for these guys, but it's a different scenario. In 2001
it ended up with a war in Afghanistan and it's still ongoing now."

Asked whether he would be willing to go on tour to India at present if the
safety report raised no severe concerns, Caddick added: "I probably would
because it's a totally different instance to 9/11. You cannot allow these things
to stop games of cricket. The circumstances are totally different and I do think
the security will be in place for that team to go to India and for everything to
be taken care of."

Meanwhile, England will fly into Abu Dhabitomorrow to begin their preparations
for the two-Test series in India according to a report in the United Arab
Emirates.

The National newspaper in Abu Dhabi claims England will train and play a warm-up
game at the Abu Dhabi Cricket Club, citing sources at the club.

The report claims the team will then fly on to Chennai ahead of the first Test
which is due to start on December 11.

"It is a big honour for Abu Dhabi," the source told the newspaper. "It is an
extremely safe environment and we want to make sure that the players feel safe
too, but we will be taking nothing for granted and security will be very tight."

Talks continued yesterday between the England and Wales Cricket Board (ECB), the
Foreign and Commonwealth Office and various security agencies.

England's one-day squad returned home on Saturday while security reports were
assessed on the threat to the team if they return for the two-Test series.

Meanwhile, international player representatives have lifted security on the
subcontinent to the top of their agenda as England continue to assess whether to
resume their tour of India.

The Federation of International Cricketers' Associations (FICA) will discuss
player safety at their executive meeting in Kuala Lumpur, Malaysia, between
December 9 and 12.

Although it was a subject previously on the list for discussion, it is now the
number one area for debate, following the predicament faced by the England team.
FICA intend to formulate a procedure for future similar scenarios to the one
England were faced with last week and hope their framework will be acceptable to
all the game's major stakeholders.

LOAD-DATE: December 4, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: 83


                 Copyright 2008 Western Morning News (Plymouth)
                              All Rights Reserved

                              157 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                      Western Morning News (Plymouth, UK)

                           December 3, 2008 Wednesday

Caddick happy to go;
Former England bowler Andrew Caddick, who pulled out of a tour to India in 2001
amid security concerns, insists he would be willing travel to the sub-continent
following last week's terrorist attacks in Mumbai.

BYLINE: Myles Hodgson

SECTION: Pg. 33

LENGTH: 651  words


England players and management flew home from India at the weekend after the
remaining matches of their one-day series were scrapped in the wake of the
tragedy.

They are due back to play two Tests this month, with the venues having been
switched to Chennai and Mohali by the Board of Control for Cricket in India in
an attempt to allay safety fears.

England security consultant Reg Dickason is among a party currently in India to
draw up a safety report, which will play a major part in the squad's final
decision on whether to return.

In 2001, Caddick and spinner Robert Croft opted out of an Indian tour following
the September 11 attacks in the United States. However, if the security report
if favourable, the Somerset seamer claims he would be happy to go in the current
circumstances.

"The big difference between now and then is that the ECB do have a very good
security team, they've got a very good leader (Dickason) who looks after the
players' security, and they'll be leaning on him a lot and asking his advice as
to whether the tour will be safe," said Caddick. "But I'm sure it will be
compared to 9/11, it will be a lot safer than it was back then.

"In 2001, there were nine players on that tour who didn't want to go, and a few
of them were forced to go due to different circumstances, and there were a few
management who didn't want to go as well.

"Even I was pressurised into going, but thankfully myself and Mr Croft were
advised that it wasn't going to be held against us.

"I'm hoping that with the relationship between the players and the ECB, the ECB
won't hold it against the players if they feel that their security and
well-being is (more important) than the game of cricket.

"You've got to feel sorry for these guys, but it's a different scenario. In 2001
it ended up with a war in Afghanistan and it's still ongoing now."

Asked whether he would be willing to go on tour to India at present if the
safety report raised no severe concerns, Caddick added: "I probably would
because it's a totally different instance to 9/11. You cannot allow these things
to stop games of cricket. The circumstances are totally different and I do think
the security will be in place for that team to go to India and for everything to
be taken care of."

Meanwhile, England will fly into Abu Dhabitomorrow to begin their preparations
for the two-Test series in India according to a report in the United Arab
Emirates.

The National newspaper in Abu Dhabi claims England will train and play a warm-up
game at the Abu Dhabi Cricket Club, citing sources at the club.

The report claims the team will then fly on to Chennai ahead of the first Test
which is due to start on December 11.

"It is a big honour for Abu Dhabi," the source told the newspaper. "It is an
extremely safe environment and we want to make sure that the players feel safe
too, but we will be taking nothing for granted and security will be very tight."

Talks continued yesterday between the England and Wales Cricket Board (ECB), the
Foreign and Commonwealth Office and various security agencies.

England's one-day squad returned home on Saturday while security reports were
assessed on the threat to the team if they return for the two-Test series.

Meanwhile, international player representatives have lifted security on the
subcontinent to the top of their agenda as England continue to assess whether to
resume their tour of India.

The Federation of International Cricketers' Associations (FICA) will discuss
player safety at their executive meeting in Kuala Lumpur, Malaysia, between
December 9 and 12.

Although it was a subject previously on the list for discussion, it is now the
number one area for debate, following the predicament faced by the England team.
FICA intend to formulate a procedure for future similar scenarios to the one
England were faced with last week and hope their framework will be acceptable to
all the game's major stakeholders.

LOAD-DATE: June 11, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: 83


                 Copyright 2008 Western Morning News (Plymouth)
                              All Rights Reserved

                              158 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                      Western Morning News (Plymouth, UK)

                           December 3, 2008 Wednesday

Caddick happy to go;
Former England bowler Andrew Caddick, who pulled out of a tour to India in 2001
amid security concerns, insists he would be willing travel to the sub-continent
following last week's terrorist attacks in Mumbai.

BYLINE: Myles Hodgson

SECTION: Pg. 33

LENGTH: 651 words


England players and management flew home from India at the weekend after the
remaining matches of their one-day series were scrapped in the wake of the
tragedy.

They are due back to play two Tests this month, with the venues having been
switched to Chennai and Mohali by the Board of Control for Cricket in India in
an attempt to allay safety fears.

England security consultant Reg Dickason is among a party currently in India to
draw up a safety report, which will play a major part in the squad's final
decision on whether to return.

In 2001, Caddick and spinner Robert Croft opted out of an Indian tour following
the September 11 attacks in the United States. However, if the security report
if favourable, the Somerset seamer claims he would be happy to go in the current
circumstances.

"The big difference between now and then is that the ECB do have a very good
security team, they've got a very good leader (Dickason) who looks after the
players' security, and they'll be leaning on him a lot and asking his advice as
to whether the tour will be safe," said Caddick. "But I'm sure it will be
compared to 9/11, it will be a lot safer than it was back then.

"In 2001, there were nine players on that tour who didn't want to go, and a few
of them were forced to go due to different circumstances, and there were a few
management who didn't want to go as well.

"Even I was pressurised into going, but thankfully myself and Mr Croft were
advised that it wasn't going to be held against us.

"I'm hoping that with the relationship between the players and the ECB, the ECB
won't hold it against the players if they feel that their security and
well-being is (more important) than the game of cricket.

"You've got to feel sorry for these guys, but it's a different scenario. In 2001
it ended up with a war in Afghanistan and it's still ongoing now."

Asked whether he would be willing to go on tour to India at present if the
safety report raised no severe concerns, Caddick added: "I probably would
because it's a totally different instance to 9/11. You cannot allow these things
to stop games of cricket. The circumstances are totally different and I do think
the security will be in place for that team to go to India and for everything to
be taken care of."

Meanwhile, England will fly into Abu Dhabitomorrow to begin their preparations
for the two-Test series in India according to a report in the United Arab
Emirates.

The National newspaper in Abu Dhabi claims England will train and play a warm-up
game at the Abu Dhabi Cricket Club, citing sources at the club.

The report claims the team will then fly on to Chennai ahead of the first Test
which is due to start on December 11.

"It is a big honour for Abu Dhabi," the source told the newspaper. "It is an
extremely safe environment and we want to make sure that the players feel safe
too, but we will be taking nothing for granted and security will be very tight."

Talks continued yesterday between the England and Wales Cricket Board (ECB), the
Foreign and Commonwealth Office and various security agencies.

England's one-day squad returned home on Saturday while security reports were
assessed on the threat to the team if they return for the two-Test series.

Meanwhile, international player representatives have lifted security on the
subcontinent to the top of their agenda as England continue to assess whether to
resume their tour of India.

The Federation of International Cricketers' Associations (FICA) will discuss
player safety at their executive meeting in Kuala Lumpur, Malaysia, between
December 9 and 12.

Although it was a subject previously on the list for discussion, it is now the
number one area for debate, following the predicament faced by the England team.
FICA intend to formulate a procedure for future similar scenarios to the one
England were faced with last week and hope their framework will be acceptable to
all the game's major stakeholders.

LOAD-DATE: August 21, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: 83


                 Copyright 2008 Western Morning News (Plymouth)
                              All Rights Reserved

                              159 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                BreakingNews.ie

                     December 4, 2008 Thursday 02:15 PM GMT

Indian airports on high alert for terrorist attack

SECTION: WORLD NEWS

LENGTH: 556 words


Airports in India were on high alert today following warnings of a new terrorist
attack.

The threat of an airborne attack focused on three major airports - New Delhi,
Bangalore and Chennai - but security was stepped up across the country. No
further details about the threat were released.

"This is a warning which we have received. We are prepared as usual," India's
air force chief, Fali Homi Major, said.

Heavily armed guards from India's Rapid Deployment Force manned roadblocks
outside airports, while others patrolled inside airport buildings among
passengers.

Several extra layers of security were set up and some passengers had bags
scanned with devices to check for explosives before entering terminals.

"Passengers have been asked to pass through six-stage security checks," said a
police spokesman at the airport in the northern city of Lucknow.

Nirmala Sharma, a passenger who flew from New Delhi to Lucknow, said her bags
were checked half a dozen times and she went through a metal detector three
times. "Sometimes it seemed tedious, but it seems to be the need of the hour,"
she said.

Meanwhile, officials continued to probe the attacks.

Evidence collected in probes so far has pointed to two members of outlawed
Pakistani group Lashkar-e-Taiba as masterminds in the attacks, according to two
Indian government officials familiar with the matter.

The men, Zaki-ur-Rehman Lakhvi and Yusuf Muzammil, are believed to be in
Pakistan, the officials said.

Meanwhile US Secretary of State Condoleezza Rice met Pakistani leaders in
Islamabad after visiting India as part of a US effort to pressure Pakistan to
share more intelligence and pursue terrorist cells believe rooted in the
country.

"I have found a Pakistani government that is focused on the threat and
understands its responsibilities to respond to terrorism and extremism," she
said after meeting President Asif Ali Zardari.

Mr Zardari "reiterated that the government will not only assist in (the)
investigation but also take strong action against any Pakistani elements found
involved in the attack," his office said.

He said Pakistan was "determined to ensure that its territory is not used for
any act of terrorism".

Government security forces have come under intense criticism they missed
warnings and bungled their response to last week's attacks.

Today police said an unexploded hand grenade was found outside a hospital that
was the scene of an attack during last week's siege on the city.

The discovery came after police detected two bombs at Mumbai's main train
station yesterday, nearly a week after they were left there by the attackers.

It was not clear why the bags at the station were not examined earlier. The
station, which serves hundreds of thousands of commuters, was declared safe and
reopened hours after the attack.

Fallout from the attacks widened today as the chief minister of Maharashtra
state, where Mumbai is located, stepped down. The country's top law enforcement
official resigned last week.

"I regret that we could not have saved more lives, that regret will remain with
me," said the minister, Vilasrao Deshmukh.

With public anger over the attacks rising by the day, foreign minister Pranab
Mukherjee adopted a more strident tone against India's long-time rival, saying
there was no doubt the assailants were Pakistani and their handlers were in
Pakistan.

LOAD-DATE: December 4, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication


                    Copyright 2008 Thomas Crosbie Media Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              160 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                BreakingNews.ie

                     December 4, 2008 Thursday 07:01 AM GMT

Rice demands 'robust response' from Pakistan over terror attacks

SECTION: WORLD NEWS

LENGTH: 170 words


US Secretary of State Condoleezza Rice is increasing pressure on Pakistan's
government to help get to the bottom of the terror attacks in neighbouring
India.

After expressing US condolences for the more than 170 deaths in India, Dr Rice
is in Pakistan for meetings with civilian and military leaders.

The US wants Pakistan to do more to go after terror cells rooted in the country.

Dr Rice traded places with Joint Chiefs of Staff Chairman Mike Mullen, who was
pushing the same message in Pakistan yesterday. He's now in the Indian capital.

On the plane ride to Islamabad today, Dr Rice told reporters Pakistan must
provide a robust and effective response to the attacks in the Indian commercial
capital of Mumbai.

"It just has to be a robust response and one that is effective," she said.

"But I've also been emphasising the importance of prevention here. The
Pakistanis are sophisticated; they've been dealing with terrorism themselves for
some time. So I'm going there to talk about a Pakistani response, not to carry
messages."

LOAD-DATE: December 4, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication


                    Copyright 2008 Thomas Crosbie Media Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              161 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                                Folkstone Herald

                           December 4, 2008 Thursday

PM deplores terror attacks

SECTION: Pg. 6

LENGTH: 190 words


The Nepalese government has condemned the bomb attacks in the Indian city of
Mumbai.

The Nepalese prime minister issued the statement through the Ministry of Foreign
Affairs on Thursday, November 27, the day after the attacks.

Prime Minister Prachanda said: "The Nepali government and people of Nepal
unreservedly deplore in strongest terms these cowardly terrorist attacks.

"While expressing deep condolence to the bereaved families, we express our full
solidarity with the government and people of India at this hour of distress."

Nepal has a good relationship with India and played host to the country's
minister of external affairs, Pranab Mukherjee, from Monday, November 24 to
Wednesday, November 26.

The visit was made at the invitation of Upendra Yadav, Nepal's minister for
foreign affairs.

During the trip the two ministers discussed the countries' relationship and
talked about trade and managing the open border.

This was the first high-level visit from India to Nepal since the Nepalese
elections in April. Mr Mukherjee, on behalf of Indian President Pratibha
Devisingh Patil, invited Nepalese President Dr Ram Baran Yadav to visit India.

LOAD-DATE: December 5, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: 284


                    Copyright 2008 Northcliffe Media Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              162 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                                Folkstone Herald

                                December 4, 2008

PM deplores terror attacks

SECTION: Pg. 6

LENGTH: 190  words


The Nepalese government has condemned the bomb attacks in the Indian city of
Mumbai.

The Nepalese prime minister issued the statement through the Ministry of Foreign
Affairs on Thursday, November 27, the day after the attacks.

Prime Minister Prachanda said: "The Nepali government and people of Nepal
unreservedly deplore in strongest terms these cowardly terrorist attacks.

"While expressing deep condolence to the bereaved families, we express our full
solidarity with the government and people of India at this hour of distress."

Nepal has a good relationship with India and played host to the country's
minister of external affairs, Pranab Mukherjee, from Monday, November 24 to
Wednesday, November 26.

The visit was made at the invitation of Upendra Yadav, Nepal's minister for
foreign affairs.

During the trip the two ministers discussed the countries' relationship and
talked about trade and managing the open border.

This was the first high-level visit from India to Nepal since the Nepalese
elections in April. Mr Mukherjee, on behalf of Indian President Pratibha
Devisingh Patil, invited Nepalese President Dr Ram Baran Yadav to visit India.

LOAD-DATE: June 11, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: 284


                    Copyright 2008 Northcliffe Media Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              163 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                          The Guardian - Final Edition

                           December 4, 2008 Thursday

International: Terrorists could mount nuclear or biological attack within 5
years, warns Congress inquiry: Pakistan singled out as likely source of
weaponry: Obama urged to prioritise non-proliferation issues

BYLINE: Ewen MacAskill, Washington

SECTION: GUARDIAN INTERNATIONAL PAGES; Pg. 30

LENGTH: 852 words


An investigation by the US Congress into weapons of mass destruction published
yesterday made a chilling prediction of terrorists mounting an attack using
biological or nuclear weapons within the next five years.

The six-month inquiry mentioned Pakistan as one of the likeliest sources of such
an attack. The target could be the US or some other part of the world.

The report, by the bipartisan Commission on the Prevention of Weapons of Mass
Destruction, said "unless the world community acts decisively and with great
urgency, it is more likely than not that a weapon of mass destruction will be
used in a terrorist attack somewhere in the world by the end of 2013".

"Terrorists are more likely to be able to obtain and use a biological weapon
than a nuclear weapon," it said.

George Bush said the report highlighted the greatest threat facing the US and
was "dangerously real". He said that after the 9/11 attacks he had put in place
policies tackling the threat and he was leaving a good foundation for his
successor.

Barack Obama's incoming administration, which is to prioritise tackling the
proliferation of weapons of mass destruction, was briefed on Capitol Hill
yesterday about the findings in the 132-page report.

The commission, led by former Democratic senators Bob Graham and Jim Talent, was
given six months to complete the report. It followed on from the work of the
commission that investigated the 9/11 attacks.

Graham told reporters that a biological or nuclear attack within the next five
years was not inevitable and the commission's reports included a series of
recommendations which, if implemented, could diminish the threat. The
recommendations included the creation of a White House post focusing on
proliferation and more emphasis on diplomatic efforts.

The team's remit ranged from lack of security at biological labs in the US to
the safety of nuclear stockpiles in Russia. It conducted 250 interviews with
scientists, analysts, intelligence agencies and the military.

The report concluded that the risk from biological or nuclear weapons was higher
than sceptical foreign policy and defence analysts have so far suggested. Those
analysts had pointed to the complexity of transporting such weapons and the
limitations of a nuclear "dirty" bomb, whose radius of damage is minimal
compared with missile-delivered warheads.

The report disagreed, saying: "No mission could be timelier. The simple reality
is that the risks that confront us today are evolving faster than our
multi-layered responses.

"Many thousands of dedicated people across all agencies of our government are
working hard to protect this country, and their efforts have had a positive
impact. But the terrorists have been active, too - and in our judgment America's
margin of safety is shrinking, not growing."

It added that much dangerous biological and nuclear material around the globe
was "poorly secured - and thus vulnerable to theft by those who would put these
materials to harmful use, or would sell them on the black market to potential
terrorists".

As well as the threat from stateless militant groups, the commission expressed
concern about the danger posed by proliferation of nuclear weapons in countries
such as Iran, saying the Obama administration must stop Tehran acquiring a
nuclear weapons capability.

It pointed to Pakistan, both at state level and among stateless groups, as one
of the areas of most concern. "Were one to map terrorism and weapons of mass
destruction today, all roads would intersect in Pakistan," the report said.

Talent told journalists: "It is the epicentre of a lot of these dangers." He
said the report had been drawn up before the Mumbai attacks. The commission
recommended that Pakistan be top priority for the Obama administration in terms
of terrorism and proliferation.

Proposals include eliminating terrorist safe havens through military, economic,
and diplomatic means, securing nuclear and biological materials in Pakistan,
countering and defeating extremist ideology, and constraining a nascent nuclear
arms race in Asia.

Other recommendations include strengthening the nuclear non-proliferation treaty
and other international safeguards, creating a US national security force
appropriate to the 21st century and developing a more coherent strategy for
countering ideologies that lead to terrorism.

At home, the commission was disturbed by the apparent lack of security at
laboratories dealing with dangerous biological materials.

Government investigators sent to check on the vulnerability of such research
sites were able gain access to the outside of these buildings and then observe
work inside.

It was fortunate that they were from the government and not al-Qaida as these
were precisely the lethal trove that the terrorists have been seeking for years,
the report said.

The investigators watched a pedestrian simply stroll into one of the buildings
through an unguarded loading bay.

The commission recommended tighter oversight of the 400 research facilities and
15,000 staff engaged in such work.

Another recommendation was for the establishment of an anthrax preparedness
strategy.

LOAD-DATE: December 4, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2008 Guardian Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              164 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                          The Guardian - Final Edition

                           December 4, 2008 Thursday

Technology: Putting Armageddon on hold: How would our government react to a
terrorist attack in the age of social networking? Mumbai and other atrocities
have led to draconian plans, says Michael Cross

BYLINE: Michael Cross

SECTION: GUARDIAN TECHNOLOGY PAGES; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1062 words


It's July 2012, and despite all the precautions - including the most intrusive
surveillance exercise ever mounted and the detention of hundreds of suspects
under draconian emergency powers - London is under terrorist attack. Social
networks are buzzing with rumours and video clips of military units clad in
chemical warfare suits gathering outside the Bank of England, where hostages are
being held.

In the Cobra emergency room under Whitehall, officials from the Cabinet Office,
the Ministry of Defence and the Metropolitan Police ponder their options.
Someone mentions Mumbai 2008, when Twitter became the uncontrolled but main
source of news, flooding in at the rate of 12 Tweets a second. A decision is
taken to seize control of the flow of information from anywhere near the scene
of the attack.

Transmission ends

The UK government already has the legal power and technical ability to do it,
and contingency plans for filling the information vacuum from official sources.

Step one is to shut down all unofficial mobile communications in the capital.
The plan, drawn up by the Directorate of Civil Contingencies and drawing on the
lessons of the 2004 Madrid bombings, as well as the July 7 2005 attacks in
London, is for a carefully tiered approach, to avoid public panic and political
flak.

Close to the hostage sites, the security forces have already deployed jammers to
render the terrorists' GSM and 3G phones - and other wireless devices -
unusable. To extend control over the whole network, the Cabinet Office instructs
licensed phone operators to restrict calls to numbers registered in advance.
Under the telephone preference scheme, a condition of operating licences, this
can be done at the flick of a switch. No public announcement is made; frustrated
Londoners trapped behind security cordons and trying desperately to phone home
assume that the network is simply overloaded.

Step two is to tackle "unhelpful" information on the web. With no time to issue
legal takedown notices, the Cobra committee authorises GCHQ to begin
denial-of-service attacks. The British public, suddenly bereft of its favourite
channels of communication, reverts to the time-honoured technologies of
broadcast radio and television - and newspapers.

This isn't fantasy. Whitehall sources acknowledge that such plans to shut down
Britain's electronic information infrastructure exist, though no one is prepared
to go in to details. However, one clue is the extent of measures being put in
place to ensure that official communications operate separately from civilian
networks.

The principal communications system, used by the military and security services
as well as police, fire and ambulance crews, is the Airwave digital radio. The
system, based on the Tetra standard (similar to GPRS), was sold as being secure
and resilient. The network's 3,500 transmission stations across the UK operate
independently of civilian mobile networks, the operator says. For example, all
have backup power batteries, and one third have on-site generators to keep them
running for seven days. Likewise, the net work switches (the number is secret)
have duplicates on hot-standby, the operator says. And if the worst came to the
worst and the whole network went down, handsets would still function as mobile
radios, capable of talking to each other for as long as their batteries held
out.

Network capacity

However, Airwave's limited ability to handle data - while some police forces use
it to transmit images, it is painfully slow - raises questions about its
suitability as the sole operational carrier in a national emergency.

Last month, the Home Affairs Select Committee's report Policing in the 21st
century (http://bit.ly/security01) concluded: "The Airwave radio network can
struggle to cope where a very large number of users are concentrated in the same
area. We are concerned about the potential for the network to fail during the
2012 Olympic Games, given the number of officers who will be deployed. The Home
Office should address this as a matter of urgency, including consideration of
expanding the radio band assigned to Airwave." The report quoted evidence by the
Academy of Engineering that: "The amount of voice traffic is now reaching the
limits of the current system's spectrum resources in some areas (particularly in
London). This suggests that the Airwave system will be inadequate for the future
needs of the police forces, particularly in densely populated areas where
information needs are likely to exceed the Tetra network's capacity."

Airwave executives agree with the need for more bandwidth, but vigorously deny
that the network would fall over from excess demand. "We've never got anywhere
near getting to such levels," a senior executive said this week. If the network
did become overloaded, it would automatically ration calls in a pre-programmed
priority rather than shutting down, he said.

Contingency plans to fill the gap left by the blocking of non-official websites
appear to be less well prepared. Under the scheme of website rationalisation,
two central "supersites" have a role to play.

The main one is the central government site direct.gov.uk, which the Cabinet
Office says will be "the place people turn to in a national emergency". However,
Whitehall sources say that the site's operators, based at the Central Office of
Information but reporting to the Department for Work and Pensions (which hosts
the site), are still working on how the information feed from the government's
emergency response teams will work in practice.

Signing off

Meanwhile, in the event of an epidemic or chemical, biological or nuclear
attack, the new NHS portal, nhs.uk, has plans to clear its home page to provide
graphic-only information about what to do.

Finally, when all else shuts down, the government can fall back on the tried and
tested radio - meaning conventional analogue broadcast. In the event of a major
national catastrophe, we can assume that Radio 4 will be the last to go off air.
According to Whitehall historian Peter Hennessey, captains of Trident missile
submarines are instructed that if they lose all communication with the UK, and
Radio 4's Today programme is not broadcast for three days, they may assume the
home country has been wiped out and open their instructions for Armageddon.

In which case, it probably won't matter whether Twitter is working - or not.

LOAD-DATE: December 4, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2008 Guardian Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              165 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                                Hull Daily Mail

                           December 4, 2008 Thursday

Eleanor's India trip is still on;
A Beverley teenage film star's trip to India has been delayed following the
terrorist attacks in Mumbai.

SECTION: Pg. 13

LENGTH: 296 words


Eleanor Tomlinson, 16, will embark on a trip to Jaipur, known as the Pink City,
to meet young people involved in the sex trade.

The journey is part of her new role as an ambassador for the charity World
Vision, which approached her to front the 24-hour famine campaign, encouraging
young people in Britain to give up something important to them for the day.

She was due to leave last weekend, but will now leave on Sunday.

Almost 190 people died after terrorists stormed Mumbai and laid siege to the Taj
Mahal Palace and Oberoi hotels last Wednesday.

But Eleanor remains determined to visit the country in a bid to help
impoverished youngsters.

She said: "World Vision were concerned and have put the trip back by a week.

"Although Jaipur isn't close to Mumbai, it is a worry, but I am still really
excited.

"I am a little apprehensive and my family are a bit worried, but I'll be going
with my dad.

"The thought of going out there and helping people is a really strong pull."

Money raised through sponsorship from the campaign will help young people caught
up in the sex industry in India by providing medicine and educating them on the
risks associated with HIV and Aids.

As part of the campaign, Eleanor is to give up riding her horse for a day.

She said: "I have been warned it will be an emotional trip and I have to be
prepared.

"I think it will be life-changing and something I'll never forget.

"I am lucky to be in a position where I can help others.

Eleanor will be taking over from television presenter Fearne Cotton as a World
Vision ambassador.

The Beverley Grammar pupil recently starred in teen comedy Angus, Thongs And
Perfect Snogging and will feature in Tim Burton's Alice In Wonderland, starring
Johnny Depp.

She could also be seen in Einstein And Eddington on BBC2 recently.

LOAD-DATE: December 5, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: 88


                         Copyright 2008 Hull Daily Mail
                              All Rights Reserved

                              166 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                                Hull Daily Mail

                           December 4, 2008 Thursday

Eleanor's India trip is still on;
A Beverley teenage film star's trip to India has been delayed following the
terrorist attacks in Mumbai.

SECTION: Pg. 13

LENGTH: 296  words


Eleanor Tomlinson, 16, will embark on a trip to Jaipur, known as the Pink City,
to meet young people involved in the sex trade.

The journey is part of her new role as an ambassador for the charity World
Vision, which approached her to front the 24-hour famine campaign, encouraging
young people in Britain to give up something important to them for the day.

She was due to leave last weekend, but will now leave on Sunday.

Almost 190 people died after terrorists stormed Mumbai and laid siege to the Taj
Mahal Palace and Oberoi hotels last Wednesday.

But Eleanor remains determined to visit the country in a bid to help
impoverished youngsters.

She said: "World Vision were concerned and have put the trip back by a week.

"Although Jaipur isn't close to Mumbai, it is a worry, but I am still really
excited.

"I am a little apprehensive and my family are a bit worried, but I'll be going
with my dad.

"The thought of going out there and helping people is a really strong pull."

Money raised through sponsorship from the campaign will help young people caught
up in the sex industry in India by providing medicine and educating them on the
risks associated with HIV and Aids.

As part of the campaign, Eleanor is to give up riding her horse for a day.

She said: "I have been warned it will be an emotional trip and I have to be
prepared.

"I think it will be life-changing and something I'll never forget.

"I am lucky to be in a position where I can help others.

Eleanor will be taking over from television presenter Fearne Cotton as a World
Vision ambassador.

The Beverley Grammar pupil recently starred in teen comedy Angus, Thongs And
Perfect Snogging and will feature in Tim Burton's Alice In Wonderland, starring
Johnny Depp.

She could also be seen in Einstein And Eddington on BBC2 recently.

LOAD-DATE: June 11, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: 88


                         Copyright 2008 Hull Daily Mail
                              All Rights Reserved

                              167 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                                Hull Daily Mail

                           December 4, 2008 Thursday

Eleanor's India trip is still on;
A Beverley teenage film star's trip to India has been delayed following the
terrorist attacks in Mumbai.

SECTION: Pg. 13

LENGTH: 296 words


Eleanor Tomlinson, 16, will embark on a trip to Jaipur, known as the Pink City,
to meet young people involved in the sex trade.

The journey is part of her new role as an ambassador for the charity World
Vision, which approached her to front the 24-hour famine campaign, encouraging
young people in Britain to give up something important to them for the day.

She was due to leave last weekend, but will now leave on Sunday.

Almost 190 people died after terrorists stormed Mumbai and laid siege to the Taj
Mahal Palace and Oberoi hotels last Wednesday.

But Eleanor remains determined to visit the country in a bid to help
impoverished youngsters.

She said: "World Vision were concerned and have put the trip back by a week.

"Although Jaipur isn't close to Mumbai, it is a worry, but I am still really
excited.

"I am a little apprehensive and my family are a bit worried, but I'll be going
with my dad.

"The thought of going out there and helping people is a really strong pull."

Money raised through sponsorship from the campaign will help young people caught
up in the sex industry in India by providing medicine and educating them on the
risks associated with HIV and Aids.

As part of the campaign, Eleanor is to give up riding her horse for a day.

She said: "I have been warned it will be an emotional trip and I have to be
prepared.

"I think it will be life-changing and something I'll never forget.

"I am lucky to be in a position where I can help others.

Eleanor will be taking over from television presenter Fearne Cotton as a World
Vision ambassador.

The Beverley Grammar pupil recently starred in teen comedy Angus, Thongs And
Perfect Snogging and will feature in Tim Burton's Alice In Wonderland, starring
Johnny Depp.

She could also be seen in Einstein And Eddington on BBC2 recently.

LOAD-DATE: August 21, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: 88


                         Copyright 2008 Hull Daily Mail
                              All Rights Reserved

                              168 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                              Liverpool Daily Echo

                           December 4, 2008 Thursday
                                  1ST Edition

Laura defies terror attacks

SECTION: FEATURES; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 243 words


ENGLAND'S cricketers might have cut short their stay in India after last week's
terror attacks, but it seems Liverpool singer Laura Critchley is made of sterner
stuff.

The 23-year-old from Little Sutton is due to go out to India on a promotional
tour next week, after signing a record deal with a major label called The Times
India.

And she insists that despite the terrorist threat she's every intention of
honouring the dates in Mumbai, Delhi, Hyderabad and Pune.

Laura tells Insider: "It's a great opportunity for me. The label also has The
Jonas Brothers, Miley Cyrus and Hilary Duff and they are paying for me to go out
and do a promotional tour from December 8 to 16.

"They've also been playing my videos on VH1 India 60 times a day and have my
songs on heavy rotation on the national radio already.

"Since the terrorist attacks it's been touch and go about whether I should be
going but I've decided I should because I was living in London during the
bombings here and I think it's really important to carry on as normal and show
support for Mumbai. I've been looking forward to seeing India for the first time
and I still am."

It's a busy old time for Laura, who supported Boyzone on their comeback tour.

She's doing a one-off gig in Liverpool just back from a week in Abu Dhabi where
she performed at an event for Ferrari.

She says: "They have asked if I will sing for them next year at the Grand Prix
in Abu Dhabi and obviously I've said yes!"

LOAD-DATE: December 4, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


               Copyright 2008 The Liverpool Daily Post & Echo Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                              169 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                PA Regional Newswire of English Regions: LONDON

                     December 4, 2008 Thursday 7:11 AM BST

HUNDREDS ATTEND CANDLELIT VIGIL FOR TERROR ATTACK VICTIMS

SECTION: PA Regional Newswire for English Regions

LENGTH: 262 words


Hundreds of businessmen and women stood in silent solidarity at a candlelit
vigil in London to honour those who died in the Mumbai terrorist attacks one
week ago.

The one-hour ceremony took place at Canary Wharf as commuters left work on
Wednesday, and was intended to show support for India's financial centre in the
wake of the massacre.

Among the many people paying tribute to the dead was London-based business man
Hiro Harjani whose nephew was in Mumbai visiting relatives at the time of the
attacks.

Tragically, Mohit Harjani, 32, who ran a business in Dubai, and his wife Lavina,
28, were having dinner at the ground floor restaurant at the Oberoi Hotel when
gunmen burst in and both were killed.

``We need solidarity,'' said Mr Harjani, 47, who learnt of his family's loss on
Friday morning in a phone call from his father.

``We need to get together like this. I'm going to support every event.

``We need answers. We need the global community to be aware and to take more
action. This is not just an India and Pakistan problem, it's a world problem.

``It could spark a third world war.'' He added: ``We have to keep making noises
until everyone wakes up.''

Mr Harjani, who runs a fashion business, said that the death of his nephew and
his wife had left their two young sons, just nine and three years old, orphans.
``I want to go and see if I can bring them to London and adopt them,'' he said.

Also at the vigil, organised by Indian charity SewaVolunteers, was Anwar Hasan,
the group representative for Tata Group, which runs the Taj Hotel targeted
during the violence. end

LOAD-DATE: December 4, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newswire


                  Copyright 2008 The Press Association Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              170 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                             Western Gazette series

                           December 4, 2008 Thursday

Bank worker safe after India massacre;
The family of a Blandford man who narrowly avoided being caught up in the
terrorist attacks in Mumbai have expressed relief that he is now safe in New
Delhi.

SECTION: Pg. 8

LENGTH: 41 words


He then remained in his hotel until Barclays arranged for his transfer to New
Delhi on Sunday. Mr Moses senior said: "Barclays have been very good in
supplying us with information, and Michael rang us on Monday to tell us he was
safely in New Delhi."

LOAD-DATE: December 5, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: 250


                    Copyright 2008 Northcliffe Media Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              171 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                             Western Gazette series

                                December 4, 2008

Bank worker safe after India massacre;
The family of a Blandford man who narrowly avoided being caught up in the
terrorist attacks in Mumbai have expressed relief that he is now safe in New
Delhi.

SECTION: Pg. 8

LENGTH: 41  words


He then remained in his hotel until Barclays arranged for his transfer to New
Delhi on Sunday. Mr Moses senior said: "Barclays have been very good in
supplying us with information, and Michael rang us on Monday to tell us he was
safely in New Delhi."

LOAD-DATE: June 11, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: 250


                    Copyright 2008 Northcliffe Media Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              172 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                             Western Gazette series

                                December 4, 2008

Bank worker safe after India massacre;
The family of a Blandford man who narrowly avoided being caught up in the
terrorist attacks in Mumbai have expressed relief that he is now safe in New
Delhi.

SECTION: Pg. 8

LENGTH: 41 words


He then remained in his hotel until Barclays arranged for his transfer to New
Delhi on Sunday. Mr Moses senior said: "Barclays have been very good in
supplying us with information, and Michael rang us on Monday to tell us he was
safely in New Delhi."

LOAD-DATE: August 21, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: 250


                    Copyright 2008 Northcliffe Media Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              173 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring South Asia - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                            December 5, 2008 Friday

Indian intelligence fell for terrorists' "false inputs" on attacks - Coast Guard

LENGTH: 555 words


Text of unattributed report headlined "Intelligence agencies fell for
terrorists' deception: Coast Guard" published by Indian private TV channel Zee
News website on 4 December

New Delhi, 4 December: The blame game among security and intelligence agencies
over "actionable inputs" on the Mumbai terror strike continued with the Coast
Guard (CG) Thursday [4 December] saying the "spies" had fallen for deliberately
leaked "false inputs" by terrorists to hoodwink them.

Countering spying agencies' leaks of prior inputs about Mumbai terror attacks,
CG sources said that the Pakistani terrorists deliberately leaked "false inputs"
about the time and place of arrival to divert the intelligence agencies'
attention.

"This led the intelligence agencies to provide wrong inputs to the Navy and CG.
The intelligence agencies had failed miserably and now they are trying to
deflect criticism by blaming the armed forces for the Mumbai attacks," they
charged.

Consequently, CG sources said, their warships that were carrying out a war game
off the Gujarat coast had to be diverted for surveillance and patrol at the
wrong location in the Sir Creek area, whereas the terrorists entered Indian
waters off south Gujarat.

"The terrorists leaked false information about their time and place of arrival
to the intelligence agencies to divert Coast Guard and Naval ships in wrong
direction and entered through the high seas in to Indian territory. They did the
same in 1993 blasts also," sources said.

Talking about the intelligence inputs received by the sea-guarding agencies,
sources said, "when we received inputs from the agencies, they indicated that
the terrorists' ship was moving in through the Sir Creek area and we had
heightened our vigil there," sources said.

At the time of receiving the input, the Coast Guard, the Navy and the IAF
[Indian Air Force] were carrying out war games codenamed "Exercise Defence" off
Gujarat coast, officials said.

"We were carrying out exercises with six ships each from the Navy and the Coast
Guard, and over 20 aircraft from all the three services," they said.

After receiving the input, the assets of all the three forces were diverted
towards Sir Creek area and there they apprehended a "few" Pakistani
infiltrators.

"On 19 November, during our search operations in the Sir Creek area, we
apprehended a few infiltrators. But the terrorists took the south Gujarat route
from the high seas to reach the Mumbai coast and carried out attacks," sources
claimed.

During the 1993 Mumbai blasts too, the terrorists had leaked information to
Customs officials that a huge consignment of silver was being smuggled into a
south Goa [west Indian state] port from Pakistan, they added.

"The security agencies were busy in south Goa and meanwhile the terrorists
unloaded RDX at a port in Raigarh district in Maharashtra [west Indian state],"
the sources said.

After the recent Mumbai terror strikes, the Coast Guard and the Navy have come
under sharp criticism for allegedly ignoring intelligence inputs about
terrorists taking the sea route to carry out their plans inside the Indian
territory.

However, the armed forces have maintained that the inputs from the intelligence
community were not "specific" or "actionable," but routine warnings given at
regular intervals.

Source: Zee News TV website, New Delhi, in English 04 Dec 08

LOAD-DATE: December 5, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2008 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              174 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                BreakingNews.ie

                      December 5, 2008 Friday 12:43 PM GMT

India caught terrorist with plans for Mumbai attack

SECTION: WORLD NEWS

LENGTH: 296 words


A terrorist carrying detailed sketches of targets in last week's Mumbai massacre
was captured earlier this year, it emerged today.

Faheem Ansari, an Indian member of the Pakistani militant group Lashkar-e-Taiba,
was arrested in February in north India carrying hand-drawn sketches of hotels,
the train terminal and other attack sites that were later attacked in Mumbai.

Ansari said he was trained in Pakistan in the same area where surviving gunman
Ajmal Amir Kasab said he was prepared for the attacks.

Ansari told police about a planned Lashkar attack on Mumbai, providing eight or
nine specific locations to be targeted.

Ansari admitted carrying out reconnaissance in 2007 of different Mumbai sites,
including the US Consulate, the stock exchange and others that were not attacked
last week.

Authorities want to know if Ansari, who is still in Indian custody, helped last
week's attackers plan their massacre.

He was arrested on February 10 in the city of Rampur after suspected Muslim
militants attacked a police camp, killing eight constables. He said he was there
to collect weapons to bring to Mumbai for a future attack.

A security services source said Ansari's arrest did not derail Lashkar's plans
for an attack. "When they found that their mole in Bombay had been caught ...
they carried out the operations in a different way," he said.

Despite his arrest and confessions India apparently failed to act on the
information.

Home Minister Palaniappan Chidambara, India's top law enforcement official,
admitted today there were government "lapses" in last week's terror attack.

The assault on India's financial capital left 171 dead and 239 wounded.

Surviving gunman Kasab, 21, has told interrogators he had been sent by
Lashkar-e-Taiba and identified two of the plot's masterminds.

LOAD-DATE: December 5, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication


                    Copyright 2008 Thomas Crosbie Media Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              175 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                          The Daily Telegraph (London)

                            December 5, 2008 Friday

Indian airports on fresh alert for terror attacks;
More security concerns for ECB as tourists fly into their Abu Dhabi preparation
camp

BYLINE: Nick Hoult

SECTION: SPORT; Cricket; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 382  words


MAJOR airports in India were put on high alert yesterday as news of a renewed
threat of a terror attack threw up a fresh problem for the England and Wales
Cricket Board's security team.

The major transport hubs of Bangalore, Delhi and Madras were warned of an
imminent attack by a hijacked jet as the tense atmosphere surrounding the future
of the England tour increased just as the team left for their holding camp in
Abu Dhabi.

Hugh Morris, the managing director of England cricket, and Sean Morris, the
chief executive of the Professional Cricketers' Association, will link up today
with the ECB's security team on the ground in India to check on the latest
developments.

They will meet with the Indian authorities to ensure their demand of blanket
security and a commando guard for the team can be provided by the police in
Madras, where the first Test begins on Dec 11, and Mohali, the venue for the
second Test.

"Obviously we're concerned, but what we need to do is find out the
information,'' said Hugh Morris when asked about the airport alert in India.
"I've spoken to the security team in Chennai this morning already to find out
exactly what the situation is with the alerts. When we get that information
it'll be fed back to me, to the board and form part of the security audit that
we're undertaking.''

Sources close to the team have suggested the PCA have unanswered questions over
the security reports compiled on Madras and Mohali. "The brief from the players
is clear,'' Sean Morris said. "We need to be their eyes and ears. The greater
the window the more accurate we can be which is why we want to go to India, and
come back with the facts on Sunday night. We hope that gives them great comfort
to move ahead.''

Morris conceded that the problem with security reports is that they are open to
individual interpretation. What might seem as an unacceptable risk to one
person, could be viewed as an everyday fact of life to another. It is thought
that Steve Harmison and Andrew Flintoff, both men with young families, remain
reluctant tourists.

"They became a lot more open-minded in the last couple of days after hearing
what Reg Dickason [ECB security adviser] had to say,'' Kevin Pietersen, the
England captain, said. "That is great for our team because they are two big
players.''

LOAD-DATE: December 5, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2008 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              176 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                            Daily Post (North Wales)

                            December 5, 2008 Friday
                              North Wales Edition

Indian airports put on terror attack alert;
world ROUND-UP

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 72 words


AIRPORTS in India were on high alert yesterday following warnings of a new
terrorist attack.

The threat of an airborne attack focused on three major airports - New Delhi,
Bangalore and Chennai - but security was stepped up across the country. No
further details about the threat were released.

"This is a warning which we have received.

We are prepared as usual," India's air force chief, Fali Homi Major, told
reporters yesterday.

LOAD-DATE: December 5, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2008 Trinity Mirror plc
                              All Rights Reserved

                              177 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                            The Independent (London)

                            December 5, 2008 Friday
                                 First Edition

Gunman offered £850 for terror attack on Mumbai;
Lone surviving terrorist claims recruiters promised to pay family compensation
for his 'martyrdom' Pressure mounts on Pakistan to confront militant group
suspected of organising murderous raids

BYLINE: Andrew Buncombe IN DELHI

SECTION: WORLD; Pg. 28

LENGTH: 722 words


THE SOLE surviving gunman from Mumbai's terror attacks has told interrogators
the people who recruited him promised to pay his family £850 in compensation for
this "martyrdom". He also reportedly revealed that the attacks which killed at
least 170 people were masterminded by two known militant leaders based in
Pakistan.

The 21-year-old gunman, identified as either Mohammad Ajmal Amir Kasab or
Mohammad Ajmal Amir Iman, was apparently told his family in Pakistan would
receive the cash after his death. If true, it confirms that the 10 militants
involved in the operation knew it was a suicide mission.

The latest claims, made by Indian police to the Associated Press, came as
airports in India were put on high alert after officials said they had received
new warnings of fresh possible attacks from the air. The alert told of possible
airborne strikes on three airports - Delhi, Bangalore and Chennai - but security
was stepped up across the country. No details about the threat were released.
"This is a warning which we have received. We are prepared as usual," said the
country's air force chief, Fali Homi Major.

Heavily armed guards from India's Rapid Deployment Force manned roadblocks
outside airports, as others patrolled terminal buildings among passengers.
Several extra layers of security were set up and some passengers had bags
scanned for explosives.

Despite the careful measures, Delhi's international airport was the scene of a
security scare after the sound of gunfire prompted police to storm the bulding.
Early reports suggested six gunmen were killed by security forces, but police
later said no one was injured and denied it was a terrorist incident.

Meanwhile, the Pakistani President, Asif Ali Zardari, vowed yesterday that his
government would "not only assist in the investigation but also take strong
action against any Pakistani elements found involved in the attack". Meeting the
US Secretary of State, Condoleezza Rice, in Islamabad, Mr Zardari said his
country was "determined to ensure that its territory is not used for any act of
terrorism".

Ms Rice's visit to Islamabad - lasting just hours - came after her meetings with
senior Indian officials in Delhi the day before. She stressed the need for
Pakistan to act with "resolve and urgency" in identifying who might be
responsible for the attacks. Though India has passed a list of 20 fugitives to
Pakistan that it says are hiding in the country, and demanded that they are
handed over, officials said their response to the Mumbai attacks will depend on
Pakistan's actions in the coming days.

After meeting Mr Zardari, Ms Rice said she was satisfied with the conversation
they had. The Pakistani leader apparently reminded her that his wife, Benazir
Bhutto, was killed in an attack by militants less than a year ago. Before she
left the country, Ms Rice said she had "found a Pakistani government that is
focused on the threat and understands its responsibilities to respond to
terrorism and extremism".

The key issue, however, is what genuine action Mr Zardari is able to take, even
if he is prepared to. The Pakistani public has reacted angrily to what it sees
as unproven claims that the nation was involved in the attacks. Certainly,
handing over the fugitives for trial in India would be unthinkable, and with a
major counter-insurgency operation in the north of the country, the weak
government may not wish to open another front by confronting militant groups
such as Lashkar-e-Toiba. Central to this calculation will be the attitude of the
Pakistani military and the ISI intelligence agency, parts of which are accused
of having links to the group.

Ayesha Siddiqui, an Islamabad-based military analyst, said Mr Zardari may look
to use the international pressure and evidence from the US as an excuse for
acting in some way against the militants. "If the US comes in guns-blazing in a
diplomatic sense, then he may try and piggy-back on that," she said.

Meanwhile, Indian investigators are trying to piece together everything they can
discover about the attack and its planning, based largely on interrogation of
the surviving gunman. Evidence suggests two senior members of Lashkar-e-Toiba,
Zaki-ur-Rehman Lakhvi and Yusuf Muzammil, organised the plot. Lakhvi is said to
be the group's operations chief and Muzammil its operations chief in Kashmir.

LOAD-DATE: December 4, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: IA


                      Copyright 2008 Independent Print Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                              178 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                                   Irish News

                            December 5, 2008 Friday

World - India on high alert for terrorist attacks

SECTION: Pg. 21

LENGTH: 357 words


Airports in India were put on high alert yesterday following warnings of a new
terrorist attack.

The threat of an airborne attack focused on three major airports - New Delhi,
Bangalore and Chennai - but security was stepped up across the country.

No further details about the threat were released.

"This is a warning which we have received. We are prepared as usual," India's
air force chief, Fali Homi Major, said.

Heavily armed guards from India's Rapid Deployment Force manned roadblocks
outside airports, while others patrolled inside airport buildings among
passengers.

Several extra layers of security were set up and some passengers had bags
scanned with devices to check for explosives before entering terminals.

"Passengers have been asked to pass through six-stage security checks," a police
spokesman at the airport in the northern city of Lucknow said.

Nirmala Sharma, a passenger who flew from New Delhi to Lucknow, said her bags
were checked half a dozen times and she went through a metal detector three
times. "Sometimes it seemed tedious, but it seems to be the need of the hour,"
she said.

Meanwhile, officials continued to probe the attacks.

Evidence collected in probes so far has pointed to two members of outlawed
Pakistani group Lashkar-e-Taiba as masterminds in the attacks, according to two
Indian government officials familiar with the matter.

The men, Zaki-ur-Rehman Lakhvi and Yusuf Muzammil, are believed to be in
Pakistan, the officials said.

Meanwhile US Secretary of State Condoleezza Rice met Pakistani leaders in
Islamabad after visiting India as part of a US effort to pressure Pakistan to
share more intelligence and pursue terrorist cells believe rooted in the
country.

"I have found a Pakistani government that is focused on the threat and
understands its responsibilities to respond to terrorism and extremism," she
said after meeting President Asif Ali Zardari.

Mr Zardari "reiterated that the government will not only assist in the
investigation but also take strong action against any Pakistani elements found
involved".

He said Pakistan was "determined to ensure its territory is not used for any act
of terrorism".

LOAD-DATE: December 5, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2008 The Irish News Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              179 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                                  Morning Star

                            December 5, 2008 Friday

Sport - Cricket - KP: We will stand by Indian people;
England captain Kevin Pietersen said yesterday that it is important that England
return to India for their rescheduled two-Test series as a show of support
following the terrorist attacks in Mumbai

LENGTH: 410 words


The England team flew out to Abu Dhabi yesterday where they will train before
the series which is due to begin in Chennai on December 11.

And, while Pietersen said that a final decision on whether they will fly to
Chennai will not be made until security reports are received on Sunday, the
England captain is hopeful that his side can return to the stricken country.

"I think it is important that we go back to India and rub shoulder to shoulder
with the Indian people in their time of of need," he said. "We are happy to show
our support.

"We are very focused to play some red-ball cricket. We will assess the situation
on Sunday, but we are very confident of playing a Test match and we are focused
on that."

He added: "We are buying ourselves more more time in Abu Dhabi. It is great that
the players who went to India are willing to go back.

"But, if the security is right, we will go as a collective. We are waiting on a
security report from Hugh (Morris), Sean (Morris) and Reg (Dickason), who is out
there at the moment."

There were some security concerns yesterday morning after local media reports in
Chennai quoted the Indian air force chief as saying that authorities had
received warning of a possible airborne attack.

Airports were put on high alert following intelligence warnings that terrorists
may be planning fresh attacks.

Pietersen said that he would let the people charged with checking security make
the final decision on such matters. "My first reaction was to find out what
actually happened," he said. "I have only just woken up and seen the news and my
first reaction was to come here and speak to Hugh."

Hugh Morris, the managing director of English cricket, said that there was
obviously concern following the alerts, adding that checks on the security
situation in the southern Indian city were ongoing.

"It is obviously concerning," he said. "We need to find out the information
surrounding that. I have spoken to our security team in Chennai already this
morning."

Pietersen insisted that he did not need to persuade any of his players to return
to India.

"I think everyone is a lot more open-minded about making decisions. They have
come home and spoken to family members which has been very important," he said.

"We realised it was huge to go back to India and stand shoulder to shoulder in a
time of need and do what we love doing, which is playing for England. The boys
are very, very open-minded in wanting to go and play Test match cricket."

LOAD-DATE: December 5, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


               Copyright 2008 People's Press Printing Society Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                              180 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                              New Musical Express

                                December 5, 2008

Jethro Tull reschedule Mumbai gig after terror attacks

LENGTH: 184 words



HIGHLIGHT: Band say they are 'nervous' about playing the gig


Jethro Tull have rescheduled a Mumbai gig after it was cancelled due to last
week's terror attacks on the Indian city (November 26-29).

The band were forced to axe the original gig, due to take place on November 29,
after the city was subjected to an ongoing siege that saw nearly 200 people
killed by terrorists.

They will now play the concert tonight (December 5), along with special guest
Anoushka Shankar. Shankar is the daughter of Ravi Shankar, the legendary sitar
player credited with introducing The Beatles to Indian music.

Both Jethro Tull and Shankar will donate their artist fees from the show to
local charities.

Speaking about the attacks, Jethro Tull singer Ian Anderson said in a statement:
We have all been outraged at the awful atrocities of the last week and were
forced to take the decision to suspend the Mumbai concert in the light of the
Taj Hotel siege which, at the time of cancellation, was still ongoing.

In the light of today's new India terror warnings and airport alerts, we are all
understandably a little nervous about the show but hiding under the bed is not
really an option.

LOAD-DATE: January 3, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Magazine


                        Copyright 2008 IPC Magazines Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                              181 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                               The Times (London)

                            December 5, 2008 Friday
                                   Edition 1

Airports on alert as authorities brace for '9/11 terrorist attack'

BYLINE: Rhys Blakely

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 51

LENGTH: 542 words


India's main airports were on a state of high alert last night amid fears that
14 terrorists given the same training as the Mumbai gunmen are preparing to
mount 9/11-type attacks using hijacked passenger planes.

The Defence Minister, A. K. Antony, ordered the nation's armed forces to be on
guard against "terror strikes from the air" eight days after India suffered its
worst terrorist attack in 15 years, when at least ten gunmen struck targets
including a hospital, two luxury hotels and a backpacker bar in south Mumbai,
killing 171 people.

The India Bureau for Civil Aviation is thought to have been given warning of
plans to capture one or more aircraft at Delhi, Mumbai, Bangalore or Madras
airports, the country's main transport hubs. Officials said that credible
intelligence indicated a plan to attack a significant population centre using an
airliner in an assault that would resemble those made on New York in 2001.

The warning recalled the Indian Airlines flight that was hijacked by Pakistani
nationals on Christmas Eve 1999 as it flew from Kathmandu to

Delhi. It landed in Afghanistan, where the hostages were released in exchange
for three Islamist extremists.

Last night armed police were manning cordons at each airport and passengers were
told to arrive three hours ahead of their flights to go through bolstered
security procedures.

The Air Force said that fighter aircraft were being deployed and that plans to
move anti-aircraft missiles to "high value areas" were being studied.

India's air infrastructure has failed to keep pace with the country's booming
aviation industry, in which passenger numbers rose 30 per cent last year.
Experts fear that usual security arrangements could be breached easily by
well-trained militants.

Azam Amir Kasab, the sole Mumbai gunman to be caught alive, has told
interrogators that he was one of 24 men being trained in militant camps in
Pakistan. So far, only ten - Kasab and nine others who were killed in Mumbai -
have been accounted for.

"The whereabouts of the 14 missing men is of utmost concern," a police source
said.

The faith of Mumbai's residents in their security forces, already sorely tested,
was given another severe blow this week, when a bag containing 8kg (18lb) of
explosives was found at Chhatrapati Shivaji Terminus (CST), Mumbai's main
railway station and one of the world's busiest.

Kasab and an accomplice killed 56 people at CST last Wednesday. It is thought
that the explosives, which were found with the bags of passengers who fled the
station that night, had lain there undiscovered since the attacks.

Yesterday it emerged that a private company that supplies explosives sniffer
dogs to one of Bombay's rail operators had withdrawn its services because a bill
of about £2,000 had not been paid. A Western Railway official refused to
comment.

There was also a report that a sighting of the terrorists off the coast of
Gujarat as they made their way by sea to Mumbai by Indian security forces was
not acted on.

A message sent to an Indian news agency threatened an attack tomorrow.

It alleged to be from the Deccan Mujahidin, a previously unknown group that
claimed to be behind the attacks on Mumbai, but which most experts suspect is a
front for more established terrorist factions..

LOAD-DATE: December 5, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: TIM


                    Copyright 2008 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              182 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                               The Times (London)

                            December 5, 2008 Friday
                                   Edition 2

Airports on alert as authorities brace for '9/11 terrorist attack'

BYLINE: Rhys Blakely

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 51

LENGTH: 556 words


India's main airports were on a state of high alert last night amid fears that
14 terrorists given the same training as the Mumbai gunmen are preparing to
mount a 9/11-type attack using hijacked passenger aircraft.

The Defence Minister, A. K. Antony, ordered the nation's armed forces to be on
guard against "terror strikes from the air" eight days after India suffered its
worst terrorist attack in 15 years, when at least ten gunmen struck targets
including a hospital, two luxury hotels and a backpacker bar in south Mumbai,
killing 171 people.

The India Bureau for Civil Aviation is thought to have been warned of plans to
capture one or more aircraft at Delhi, Mumbai, Bangalore or Madras airports, the
main Indian transport hubs. Officials said that credible intelligence indicated
a plan to attack a significant population centre using an airliner in an assault
that would resemble those made on New York and Washington in 2001.

The warning recalled the Indian Airlines flight that was hijacked by Pakistani
nationals on Christmas Eve 1999 as it flew from Kathmandu to Delhi. It landed in
Afghanistan, where the hostages were released in exchange for three Islamist
extremists.

Last night armed police were manning cordons at each airport and passengers were
told to arrive three hours before their flights to go through bolstered security
procedures.

The Air Force said that fighter aircraft were being deployed and that plans to
move anti-aircraft missiles to "highvalue areas" were being studied.

The Indian air infrastructure has failed to keep pace with the country's booming
aviation industry, in which passenger numbers rose by 30 per cent last year.
Experts fear that usual security arrangements could be breached easily by
trained militants.

Azam Amir Kasab, the sole Mumbai gunman to be caught alive, has told
interrogators that he was one of 24 men being trained in militant camps in
Pakistan. So far, only ten - Kasab and nine others who were killed in Mumbai -
have been accounted for.

"The whereabouts of the 14 missing men is of utmost concern," a police source
said. Interrogators hoped to extract more information from Kasab by subjecting
him to narcoanalysis.

The faith of Mumbai's residents in their security forces, already sorely tested,
was dealt another severe blow this week when a bag containing 8kg (18lb) of
explosives was found in Chhatrapati Shivaji Terminus (CST), the main Mumbai
railway station.

Kasab and an accomplice killed 56 people at CST on Wednesday last week. It is
thought that the explosives, which were found with the bags of passengers who
fled the station that night, had lain there undiscovered since the attacks.

Yesterday it emerged that a private company that supplies explosives sniffer
dogs to one of the rail operators in Mumbai had withdrawn its services because a
bill of about £2,000 had not been paid. A Western Railway official refused to
comment. There was also a report that a sighting of the terrorists off the coast
of Gujarat as they made their way by sea to Mumbai by Indian security forces was
not acted on.

A message sent to an Indian news agency threatened an attack tomorrow.

It alleged to be from the Deccan Mujahidin, a previously unknown group that
claimed to be behind the attacks on Mumbai, but which most experts suspect is a
front for more established terrorist factions..

LOAD-DATE: December 5, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: TIM


                    Copyright 2008 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              183 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                       BBC Monitoring Africa - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                           December 6, 2008 Saturday

Ugandan paper urges state to prepare for terrorist attack

LENGTH: 430 words


Text of editorial entitled "Don't gamble with terrorists" published by leading
privately-owned Ugandan newspaper The Daily Monitor website on 6 December

Two months after government warned of probable terror attacks, particularly in
urban areas, the military on Tuesday [2 December] passed out a new group of new
counter-terrorism operatives. This is a welcome development.

Brig Charles Angina, the chief of staff for land forces, cut clear the job for
the new graduates; tackle "urban terrorism and counter-insurgency to effectively
defend and protect the nation." We all need Uganda in one piece as a home where
we can enjoy all the good things about life, including security.

Some intelligence analysts, however, say that our armed forces, especially the
specialized units assigned to deal with terrorists, courageous and patriotic as
they maybe, still require additional and cutting edge training to be on top of
their job.

Government should take this counsel seriously; for it is telling of the
perceived gap between anticipated threats and actual skills required to do a
clean job. This is not to underestimate the input of the American government to
help countries like ours to improve their defence mechanism.

But last week's attacks in India's commercial capital Mumbai, in which about a
dozen terrorists killed at least 179 people, is clear testament to the security
challenges the 'civilized world' faces in defeating terrorism.

The Times newspaper of London reported that the Indian police had defective
bullet-proof vests, ancient firearms and gambled weapon handling. Many wore
plastic helmets and body protectors, good enough only to deflect sticks and
stones from demonstrators and not bullets or bombs, usually employed by
terrorists to ensure maximum casualties!

Our counter-terrorism forces should not be caught in a similar mess. That's why
we call upon government to invest prudently in the latest counter-terrorism
weaponry and protective gear for the courageous men and women in the uniform who
sacrifice their lives in defence of our country.

Uganda's involvement, at the prodding of the US, in trying to stabilize Somalia
has made Kampala a potential target for radical Islamists who are already
attacking UPDF [Uganda People's Defence Forces] troops in Mogadishu.

With an already decayed fire-fighting brigade, and a congested city with poor
infrastructure, Ugandans must be vigilant and report to the authorities any
suspicious elements. Security is paramount for the development and survival of
this country.

Source: Daily Monitor website, Kampala, in English 6 Dec 08

LOAD-DATE: December 6, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2008 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              184 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring South Asia - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                           December 6, 2008 Saturday

Hindu nationalist group asks Indian government to attack Pakistan terror camps

LENGTH: 342 words


Text of unattributed report headlined "RSS: Attack Camps in Pakistan" published
by Indian newspaper The Asian Age website on 6 December

5 December: On the eve of the Babri Masjid [mosque in Ayodhya] demolition, the
Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh (RSS) was seen in a fiery mood on Friday [5
December] as it urged the UPA [United Progressive Alliance] government to
"attack and destroy" terror training camps in Pakistan.

While the BJP [Bharatiya Janata Party] has tried to portray a "patriotic"
approach following the Mumbai terror attacks, hardcore Hindutva [Hindu
nationalist ideology] organisations like the RSS have come out openly demanding
"eye for eye and tooth for a tooth".

Speaking to this newspaper, Akhil Bhartiya prachar pramukh [national
spokesperson] of the RSS, Indresh Kumar said, "Mere threats to Pakistan will not
do. India has sufficient evidence of terrorist training centres flourishing in
Pakistan. It is most democratic and the constitutional right and duty of the
Indian government to attack and destroy these camps which are breeding
violence." Notably, Mr Kumar's name had recently figured in the alleged leaks
into the Malegaon blast investigation by the ATS [Anti-Terrorism Squad] which
named Mr Kumar as "an agent of the ISI" of Pakistan. The RSS rubbished this
charge and said the senior member was a "dedicated pracharak of the RSS".

Doing the RSS bidding once again is BJP president Rajnath Singh who said on
Thursday, "Enough is enough. There is a need to avenge the repeated assault on
our people and democracy." Pushing the Hindutva cause, RSS sarsanghchalak
[coordinator] K. Sudarshan on Friday said that, "politics is dividing the
country, while culture binds it". He said that the UPA government has wasted
precious time in "meaningless" debates on "Hindu terrorism". "Today's government
is not Indian. It is simply an extension of the British rule," Mr Sudarshan
said. He said that the Hindu culture and religion which gave the country its
name goes back centuries.

Source: The Asian Age website, Delhi, in English 06 Dec 08

LOAD-DATE: December 6, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2008 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              185 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                      Coventry Evening Telegraph (England)

                           December 6, 2008 Saturday
                                 Final Edition

Sword raid terror for shop staff;
ATTACK: Thugs take large amount of cash from Ryton store

BYLINE: By Michael Corley

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 338 words


STAFF at a Warwickshire store were terrified when two masked men wielding swords
burst in demanding money.

The raiders who seemed to be in their early 20s, raided a Co-Op store in Ryton
on Dunsmore, on Thursday.

They got away with a large amount of cash but luckily noone was hurt in the
attack.

One member of staff, parttime shop assistant Lindsay Norris, who wasn't at work
at the time, has said that staff at the shop in High Street, are worried about
security there.

The pregnant 24-year-old said: "I'm going in tonight, but I'm scared. There's no
security, no male members of staff there at the moment. It's been robbed a few
times in the two years that I've been working there.

"I feel sorry for the two girls who were on when it happened - they were
terrified."

Mo Ansell, aged 62, works for Ryton Butchers, at the other end of the High
Street.

She said: "It's mostly young girls who work there. They're soft targets. They
should definitely do more to protect them.

You can understand them not wanting to go in after something like that
happening."

Stuart Taylor, a 39-year-old dad-of-four who lives just over the road from the
Co-op, said:

"Since we moved here four years ago, the shop's been burgled or held up at least
four times. "It's worrying that it's happening on my doorstep. I'm just glad my
kids weren't over there at the time."

Thursday's raiders fled through a back door at the shop. It is not known if they
made off on foot or escaped in a car.

One was wearing a dark top and a balaclava while the other was wearing a black
beanie hat and black scarf.

Peter Fletcher, deputy general manager of the Heart of England Co-op, said: "We
are currently helping police with their inquiries and offering counselling to
the members of staff who were in the store at the time. We take security very
seriously and continue to invest heavily in CCTV and other measures as a
deterrent to crime within the store. We also work very closely with police on
measures to reduce crime."

Anyone with information should call CID on 01788 541111.

LOAD-DATE: December 6, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: SCARED... pregnant shop assistant Lindsay Norris and, below, the Co-Op
store in Ryton on Dunsmore.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2008 Coventry Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              186 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring South Asia - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                            December 7, 2008 Sunday

Bangladesh at risk of terrorist attack - expert

LENGTH: 307 words


Text of report by Tanveer Ahmed from London headlined "Experts at House of
Commons: Bangladesh at risk of terrorist attack" published by 7 December

President of Institute of Peace and Security Studies Maj-Gen (retd) Muniruzzaman
opined that in the backdrop of Mumbai attacks, Bangladesh is at risk of such
terrorist attacks. He was presenting a paper at Port Culliss House in the
British House of Commons last Tuesday.

He said terrorism now has a global face and that is why terrorism would have to
be fought globally. Recent militant attacks in Bangladesh such as the blast at
Ramna Park, murder of judges in Barisal, serial bomb blasts in all 64 districts,
grenade attack at Sheikh Hasina's rally and attack on British envoy prove the
fact they [militants] are very strong in Bangladesh.

He said recent attacks on baul [mystic singer] and Balaka [stork] sculptures are
results of those. He also said they would become a greater threat to all if
proper steps against them are not taken now.

This former general also pointed out poverty is one of the reasons behind the
rise of organizations such as JMB (Jamiat-ul-Mojahedin Bangladesh) and HuJI
(Harkat-ul-Jihad al-Islami). Other reasons are, he said, social inequality,
unemployment among the youth, international links and increasing impact of
religion-based politics.

He thinks international help is needed for that because militants have a very
strong network. Bangladesh government does not have the mechanism to find out
whether any foreign powers are helping them.

British MP Bernard Jenkins convened the seminar titled "Bangladesh at
Crossroads" organized by Henry Jackson Society.

Among others, Amnesty International Asian chief Abbas Faiz, London Assembly
member Murad Qureshi and other donors were also present at the seminar.

Source: Prothom Alo, Dhaka, in Bengali on 7 Dec 08, p 11

LOAD-DATE: December 7, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2008 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              187 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                             The Observer (London)

                                December 7, 2008

Home: News: Revealed: home of Mumbai's gunman in Pakistan village: Since the
terrorist attacks in Mumbai 10 days ago, speculation has been rife about the
birthplace of the lone surviving gunman, Ajmal Amir Kasab. India and Pakistan
have clashed over reports that he came from the Punjab. Saeed Shah, after
spending days travelling throughout the region, tracked down the killer's home -
and his grandfather - and found conclusive proof of his identity

BYLINE: Saeed Shah

SECTION: OBSERVER HOME PAGES; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 1302 words


The little house was certainly that of a poor family, with a courtyard to one
side and a small cart propped up in one corner. The old man and middle-aged
woman who answered the door were not the owners. No, they insisted, the owners
were away.

'They've gone to a wedding,' said the old man, identifying himself as Sultan. He
was, he said, Amir's father-in-law. So, that would make him Ajmal's grandfather?
At last, it seemed, this was the right place.

It had taken days to get to Faridkot, a small, dirt-poor village in Pakistan's
Punjab province. More than a week after the arrest of the only Lashkar-e-Taiba
terrorist taken alive during the terror strike on Mumbai, so little was still
known about him. His name, for instance. Was he Mohammed Amin Kasab, Azam Amir
Kasav? Or was he Mohammed Ajmal Amir? The name Kasai in fact means he would hail
from a butcher community - that would be his caste. But it was recorded as
Kasav, then later Kasab. The discrepancies reportedly stemmed from the fact that
the Mumbai police officers who first questioned him were Marathi speakers and
unable to communicate with the south Punjab resident in anything other than
Hindi patois.

And where exactly was he from? Faridkot is what he told his interrogators, but
this is a common village name. There were four candidates in the Punjab region.

Days of trying to establish which was the right one had led to a Faridkot near
the Indian border, outside a town called Depalpur. The nearest city was Okara.
It seemed to fit. And it was at this Faridkot that Ajmal's father was believed
to live.

Initially villagers were unhelpful. No, said those approached, there was no one
known here of that name. Even shown a photograph of Ajmal taken during the
Mumbai siege, all swore they did not recognise him. The mayor was clear. 'There
is a man who came to see me called Amir Kasab, who was worried,' said Ghulam
Mustafa Wattoo. 'He told me that the Ajmal on the news was not his boy. That
boy's gone away to work. There's no extremist network here.'

Was this another dead end?

As the villagers were questioned, the confusions appeared to multiply. Finally
the name Mohammed Ajmal Amir, son of Mohammed Amir Iman, who ran a food stall,
emerged.

At other Faridkots, including one near the town of Khanewal, villagers had been
friendly and helpful, proffering tea as they shook their heads. 'No. Not from
here,' they said. For a while, it appeared that this Faridkot would also prove a
wasted journey. The mayor said there had been no local police investigation,
suggesting that the authorities did not view this place with suspicion. But,
over time, inconsistencies in the villagers' accounts heightened suspicion that
this was the place. 'He [Amir] has lived here for a few years,' said one
villager, Mohammad Taj. 'He has three sons and three daughters.'

Noor Ahmed, a local farmer, said: 'Amir had a stall he pushed around, sometimes
here, sometimes elsewhere. He was a meek man, he wasn't particularly religious.
He just made ends meet and didn't quarrel with anyone.'

Still the picture was confusing. While sometimes confirming that Amir did live
in the village, and had a son called Ajmal, on other occasions locals claimed to
know nothing.

Finally one villager confirmed what was going on: 'You're being given
misinformation. We've all known from the first day [of the news of the terrorist
attack] that it was him, Ajmal Amir Kasab. His mother started crying when she
saw his picture on the television.'

Attempts to meet Amir, the father, however, were not to be successful. Villagers
eventually told us that he and his wife, Noor, had been mysteriously spirited
away earlier in the week.

'Ajmal used to go to Lahore for work, as a labourer,' continued the villager who
feared being named. 'He's been away for maybe four years. When he came back once
a year, he would say things like, "We are going to free Kashmir."'

Wresting the whole of Kashmir from Indian rule is Lashkar-e-Taiba's aim. Ajmal
had little education, according to locals. But it is still unclear whether he
was radicalised in the village or once he had left to work elsewhere.

It is said that from the age of 13 he was shuttled between his parents' house
and that of a brother in Lahore. If he did indeed speak fluent English, as
claimed in Indian press reports, he would have had to have learnt that after he
left the village.

But the villager who turned whistleblower said that local religious clerics were
brainwashing youths in the area and that Lashkar-e-Taiba's founder, Hafiz
Sayeed, had visited nearby  Depalpur, where there were 'hundreds' of supporters.
There was a Lashkar-e-Taiba office in Depalpur, but that had been hurriedly
closed in the past few days. The Lashkar-e-Taiba newspaper is distributed in
Depalpur and Faridkot. Depalpur lies in the south of Punjab province, an
economically backward area long known for producing jihadists.

Shown a picture of Ajmal, the villager confirmed that he was the former Faridkot
resident, who had last visited the village a couple of months ago at the last
festival of Eid.

Some locals have claimed that this Faridkot, and another poor village nearby
called Tara Singh, are a recruitment hotbed for Lashkar-e-Taiba, the militant
group accused of carrying out the Mumbai attack. On the side of a building, just
outside Faridkot, is graffiti that says: 'Go for jihad. Go for jihad. Markaz
Dawat ul-Irshad.' MDI is the parent organisation of Lashkar-e-Taiba. In
Depalpur, a banner on the side of the main street asks people to devote
goatskins to Jamaat ud Dawa, another MDI offshoot.

Tara Singh is home to a radical mad- rasa - Islamic school - and there is
another hardline seminary in nearby Depalpur. The nazim (mayor) of Tara Singh,
Rao Zaeem Haider, said: 'There is a religious trend here. Some go for jihad, but
not too many.'

Some reports emerging in India suggest that Ajmal may have joined Lashkar
-e-Taiba less because of his Islamist convictions but in the hope that the jihad
training he would receive would help to further the life of crime upon which he
had already embarked. But once inside Lashkar's base, his world-view began to
change.

Here, films on India's purported atrocities in Kashmir and heated lectures by
fiery preachers led him to believe in Lashkar's cause. It has also been said
that, when he was chosen for the Lashkar basic combat training, he performed so
well that he was among a group of 32 men selected to undergo advanced training
at a camp near Manshera, a course the organisation calls the Duara Khaas.

And finally, it seems, he was among an even smaller group selected for
specialised commando and navigation training given to the fedayeen unit selected
to attack Mumbai.

The authorities may now attempt to deny that Ajmal's parents live in Faridkot,
but, according to some locals, they have been there for some 20 years. But by
the end of our visit, a crucial piece of evidence had been gained. The Observer
has managed to obtain an electoral roll for Faridkot, which falls under union
council number 5, tehsil (area) Depalpur, district Okara. The list of 478
registered voters shows a 'Mohammed Amir', married to Noor Elahi, living in
Faridkot. Amir's national identity card number is given as 3530121767339, and
Noor's is 3530157035058.

That appears to be the last piece of the jigsaw. A man called Amir and his wife,
Noor, do live in Faridkot, official records show. They have a son called Ajmal.

Following our last visit to Faridkot, the mayor, Wattoo, announced via the
loudspeaker at the mosque that no one was to speak to any outsiders. By
yesterday, Pakistani intelligence officials had descended in force on Faridkot.
Locals, speaking by telephone, said a Pakistani TV crew and an American
journalist had been roughed up and run out of town. It appeared that the
backlash had begun.


LOAD-DATE: December 8, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2008 Guardian Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              188 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                         The Sunday Telegraph (London)

                                December 7, 2008

First-choice team look set to travel to India;
Positive report on security after terror attacks puts minds of senior England
cricketers at rest

BYLINE: SCYLD BERRY IN ABU DHABI

SECTION: SPORT; Cricket; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 930  words


BY THE end of one of the more abnormal days in the 132 years of England's
cricket team, the likelihood was that all of their first-choice players would
decide to go to India when they make up their minds in Abu Dhabi this evening.

The players will be given positive reports on the security situation in Madras,
the first Test venue, after the two Morrises - Hugh the managing director of
English cricket, and Sean the chief executive of the players' association -
arrive in Abu Dhabi at 6.30pm.

Barring significant alarms in India before the meeting, England will board a
plane to Madras tomorrow afternoon.

"Allahu akbar! Alhaaahu akbar.'' England's day began with the dawn call to
prayer being amplified towards their hotel from a mosque two minutes' walk away.
And eventually there was an answer to the prayers of everyone who wants the

two-Test series to go ahead, even though the Bombay (Mumbai) terrorist attack
was ended only a week ago.

"Haya as-salat! Haya al-falah!'' But at first the call to prayer and prosperity
did not work. When the 14 England players and 10 members of the High Performance
squad woke up in their hotel in the city centre, sheet lightning played over the
southern Gulf; the freeways between the skyscrapers were wet.

England had flown on Thursday to Dubai, then bussed for almost two hours in the
middle of the night to Abu Dhabi, in search of practice ahead of the first Test,
only to find that even in the desert of Arabia it was raining.

After breakfast the sky cleared and players met in the lobby for the bus at 9am
to take them to the Sheikh Zayed Cricket Stadium, set in desert scrub, where
they had a light workout on Friday afternoon.

Some faces spoke of body-clocks that did not know whether they were on GMT, or
Gulf time, or Indian time, as they were just over a week ago.

Mounds of management staff almost outnumbered the players. The England players
and their coaches wear white shirts, the Performance players and their coaches
wear red shirts. It's simple: any player in white who gives the red light this
evening will be replaced by a player in red.

Then a call came through from the Abu Dhabi Cricket Association.

The Sheikh Zayed stadium is magnificently appointed, the brightest patch of
green - the only patch of green - between the city centre skyscrapers and the
airport. Only last month it staged one-day internationals between Pakistan and
West Indies. But the run-ups had not been covered, and were wet. The bus was now
due to depart at 11.30.

Then the sky filled in. Thunder rumbled and the lightning returned in earnest.
It never rains on England's cricketers, it hoses.

The bus was postponed, and the England coach, Peter Moores, gave what was
considered to be his most impressive press conference since taking office.
"Everyone has come here to play Test cricket - as long as in their heart of
hearts they want to go. Fred [Andrew Flintoff] has had issues - is it safe? -
and Harmy [Steve Harmison] as well. But they all want to play for England,
nobody is fatigued.''

At 1.30pm, the sun breaking through, England left for the ground in their coach
without any police or military escort whatsoever.

Militants from Pakistan had made a seaborne attack on Bombay as the closest city
with a sizeable community of westerners. Dubai and Abu Dhabi come the second
closest.

At the Sheikh Zayed stadium all the players, white and red, gathered in a ring
to hear a speech by Moores and to give a warm round of applause to Flintoff on
his 31st birthday. Enough banter was exchanged to suggest a gradual revival of
the team's spirits and energy.

Perhaps as a treat, Flintoff was allowed to bat first with Kevin Pietersen,
taking turns in the spinners' net; and they both batted seriously, in a
mind-focusing way, at Test match tempo. In the second net, on the other side of
the square, were England's opening partners, Andrew Strauss, looking too pale
for someone five days from a Test in India, and Alastair Cook.

Flintoff had a lengthy and purposeful bowl too when the practice continued under
floodlights. He had more left-ankle trouble in the one-day series, from
footholds, but it was the front of his ankle then, and the back of it which had
required four operations.

England should have been playing a three-day warm-up in Baroda this weekend.
Their preparation time in India will now be limited to the two days before the
first Test. Those players who had been in the one-day team are still using their
coloured pads; they won't be reunited with their white kit until Madras.

It is the general rule that India, in the opening Test of a home series, like to
catch England on a turning pitch and go 1-0 up before the visitors have fully
acclimatised; and the temptation is going to be even greater now. The regular
one-day players should not be at such a great disadvantage, acclimatised if not
in Test mode, but Strauss, Cook and Monty Panesar will go into the series cold,
as

will Sajid Mahmood if he is named today as the 15th player in the Test squad to
cover for Stuart Broad while he rehabilitates.

This Test series is coming far too soon - starting only 10 days after the Bombay
attacks and sieges were ended - for the cricketers of England, and for the
cricketers of India (Sachin Tendulkar has spoken of his haunted state of mind).
Whether it is coming too soon for the people of India will be decided by the
cricket followers of Madras and Mohali, where the second Test is scheduled, and
whether they turn up in numbers or not.

Cricket must not be dictated to by terrorists. But it is dictated to by people
who want to make a killing.

LOAD-DATE: December 7, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2008 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              189 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                                Wales on Sunday

                                December 7, 2008
                                 North Edition

TERROR ATTACK;
UK AND WORLD BRIEF

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 1 words



HIGHLIGHT: REPRESENTATIVES from the motor industry have held talks with the
Government to discuss the effects of the global credit crunch on the industry.

LOAD-DATE: December 8, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:  TERROR ATTACK: 29 people were killed after a car bomb went off in the
Pakistani region of Peshawar yesterday.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                    Copyright 2008 Western Mail and Echo Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                              190 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                       BBC Monitoring Europe - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                            December 8, 2008 Monday

Bosnia's Grand Mufti says mosque attack is "terrorist act"

LENGTH: 98 words


Text of report by Bosnia-Hercegovina public BH Radio 1, on 8 December

[Presenter] The office of the Reis-ul-Ulema has vehemently protested against the
vandalistic torching of the mosque in Fazlagica Kula. He energetically called on
the state bodies of Bosnia-Hercegovina, international officials in our country,
and the entity authorities in the [Bosnian] Serb Republic to prevent such
terrorist acts and finally create conditions for a peaceful, secure, dignified
life on the entire territory of Bosnia-Hercegovina.

Source: BH Radio 1, Sarajevo, in Bosnian/Croatian/Serbian 1300 gmt 8 Dec 08

LOAD-DATE: December 8, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2008 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              191 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                       BBC Monitoring Europe - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                            December 8, 2008 Monday

Mostar Mufti slams "terror attack" on eastern Bosnia mosque

LENGTH: 161 words


Text of report by Bosnia-Hercegovina public BH Radio 1, on 8 December

[Presenter] Mostar Mufti Seid effendi Smajkic believes that the torching of the
mosque in Fazlagica Kula near Gacko is a terrorist act against Bosniaks. He
recalled that Gacko Muslims had been receiving telephone and written threats
since half a year ago. Effendi Smajkic has called on believers in Gacko to
muster the courage and strength to remain in their homes and the authorities of
the [Bosnian] Serb Republic to find the perpetrators of this crime.

[Smajkic] I am convinced that this is a terrorist act, and intimidation of and
an attack on returnees to the Serb Republic. This is not the first time
something like this has happened in this area - in April this year Bosniak
returnees to Fazlagica Kula received threatening phone calls and letters saying
they should leave the area as soon as possible or face slaughter.

Source: BH Radio 1, Sarajevo, in Bosnian/Croatian/Serbian 1400 gmt 8 Dec 08

LOAD-DATE: December 8, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2008 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              192 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring South Asia - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                            December 8, 2008 Monday

Afghan radio says International forces must attack terrorist bases in Pakistan

LENGTH: 402 words


Text of report by state-owned National Afghanistan Radio on 8 December

The fact that the belligerents attacked logistical convoys of the US forces in
Peshawar proved again that the international forces should pay attention to the
training and equipping centres of terrorism on the other side of the Durand
Line.

Analysts are of the opinion that unless the international forces pay attention
to terrorist training centres and hideouts, the belligerents can at any time
cause problems for the NATO and the US-led forces in Afghanistan.

According to reports, most of the necessary equipment and logistic materials of
the NATO have been transported to Afghanistan via Pakistani soil.

In another attack, the belligerents torched 50 trucks loading materials for the
international forces in Peshawar today [8 December].

By the same token, Sunday [7 December] morning, the attackers by throwing hand
grenades and firing rocket propelled launchers attacked logistic convoys of the
international forces on the Khyber Pass and ruined most of the trucks into
ashes.

It is assumed that the Al-Qa'idah leaders and belligerents are hiding in this
area.

According to Bakhtar News Agency, the fact that the militants carried out these
activities have proved that the terrorists are still able to carry out such
activities, even though, a few unmanned aircraft have carried out air operations
against them.

Taking into account, the issue's sensitivity, the NATO and coalition forces
should have a deep look and pay great attention to terrorist training and
equipping centres.

Attention to these centres requires regional cooperation. Now, Pakistan and
Afghanistan fall prey to terrorist attacks than any other country. The NATO and
international coalition on front line should crush evil centres of terrorism on
the other sides of the Durand Line so that the region will be saved from
terrorism.

Though the US forces have said that the attacks on the NATO convoys by Pakistani
militants in the west of Peshawar city will not affect the anti-terror campaign
in Afghanistan, it should not forgotten that small sparks start big fires. These
sparks are a warning that will make the NATO and international forces to pay
attention to the real bases of Al-Qa'idah militants.

The incidents in the region require the international forces to implement a
practical military strategy in the region.

Source: Radio Afghanistan, Kabul, in Dari 1530 gmt 8 Dec 08

LOAD-DATE: December 9, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2008 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              193 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                                The Bolton News

                            December 8, 2008 Monday

Teenager jailed for terror sex attack

BYLINE: Lucy Ewing

SECTION: BOLTON NEWS (BOLTON NEWS)

LENGTH: 264 words


A TEENAGER held a knife to a woman's throat and threatened to kill her, before
demanding she perform a sex act on him.

Matthew Webb was just 17 when he subjected the woman to the horrific attack on
July 29 last year.

On Monday, he pleaded guilty to rape and was sentenced to five years in prison
at Bolton Crown Court by Judge Maureen Roddy, who told him: "It was an act of a
coward."

The court heard that Webb and the woman, who works as a prostitute, were in
Shifnall Street, Bolton, when he caught her attention by whistling at her.

Jonathan Dickinson, prosecuting, said: "She went into the bushes with him
because he seemed like a normal lad and she thought he could be trusted.

"But the defendant threw her on to the ground and said: 'There is no point in
struggling because I am going to kill you after this'."

The woman, who cannot be named for legal reasons, begged Webb not to rape her,
claiming she was pregnant and she feared for the baby, as he held the knife to
her throat.

Webb, formerly of Bolton, agreed but demanded she perform a sex act on him.

The woman escaped and flagged down a passing police patrol car. Forensic experts
were able to match DNA from the woman to Webb and arrested him last December in
Gainsborough, Lincolnshire.

Joseph Hart, defending, said: "This is an unpleasant and desperately
embarrassing offence for Mr Webb to face up to. He had the courage to plead
guilty and stands by that guilty plea."

Webb, now aged 19, was told he would only serve half of his sentence in prison,
and the rest on licence. He must also sign the Sex Offenders' Register for life.

LOAD-DATE: December 8, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2008 NewsQuest Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              194 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                         The Evening Standard (London)

                            December 8, 2008 Monday
                                   A Edition

Security services on alert for terror attack launched from Thames

BYLINE: FELIX ALLEN

SECTION: Pg. 11

LENGTH: 405 words


SECURITY forces in Britain are urgently devising plans to thwart a possible
Mumbai-style terrorist attack launched from the Thames, experts said today.

A terrorism consultant said authorities were working "exceptionally hard" over
fears that London is vulnerable to a similar outrage.

It comes after Boris Johnson revealed that security on the river was being
stepped up, with the Royal Navy and Special Boat Service commandos guarding the
capital against the threat of a water-borne assault.

Fears of a terror attack on London were heightened after last month's Indian
atrocity, in which at least 10 Islamist gunmen are believed to have got ashore
in speedboats launched from a hijacked trawler.

Key sites close to the Thames could be targeted including the Houses of
Parliament, City banks, hotels and rail stations.

The Mayor, who is regularly briefed on the terror threat to London, said: "There
is a great deal of work going on. There certainly are extensive preparations to
stop a Mumbai-style operation on the Thames.

"There is substantial organisation to guard against the possibility of some sort
of riparian assault. Obviously this is something we have to think about,
particularly for the Olympics." A 40-mile stretch of the Thames from Dartford
Creek to Hampton Court is being patrolled by marine support units of the
Metropolitan Police, and the SBS is said to be on short notice to react to any
attack.

Counter-terrorist teams have also conducted test operations on waterways around
the Olympic site to investigate the threat of a rapid amphibian assault as
security forces prepare for the Games.

Terrorism expert Will Geddes, whose London-based firm IPC advised on security
for the Athens and Sydney Olympics, told the Standard: "Water-borne threats are
something that would be very much addressed in any security plans. The Met
police and the Government will be working exceptionally hard to ensure they are
testing for every type of threat.

"The Mumbai scenario is definitely included in this type of testing and counter
measures will be put in place." Terrorism analysts across government have
reportedly been ordered to review Britain's ability to withstand or prevent an
organised attack on the scale of that in Mumbai. The review includes a close
look at whether the Thames is sufficiently patrolled and whether there is
adequate surveillance of the sea approaches around Britain.

TROOPS GRAB MUMBAI MASTERMIND: PAGE 28 ...

LOAD-DATE: December 8, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2008 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              195 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                         The Evening Standard (London)

                            December 8, 2008 Monday
                                   A Edition

Pakistani troops grab mastermind of terror attacks on Mumbai

BYLINE: ELLEN WIDDUP

SECTION: Pg. 28

LENGTH: 351 words


PAKISTANI troops have raided a camp used by the extremist group blamed in the
Mumbai attacks, it emerged today.

Armed forces arrested at least 12 people at the alleged base of banned terror
group Laskhar-e-Taiba.

One of the men arrested is suspected of planning the Mumbai attacks, according
to an official at the Islamic charity Jamaat-ud-Dawa, which runs the camp.
Witnesses heard several loud explosions and saw a helicopter and dozens of
soldiers close to the town of Muzaffarabad, in the Pakistani part of the
disputed Kashmir region . Troops briefly exchanged fire with people inside the
camp before making the arrests.

A senior intelligence official confirmed the arrests and said several injured
people are being treated, and questioned, at a military hospital..

Militants told the Associated Press that the camp was used until 2004 by LeT to
train recruits to fight Indian rule in its section of the Kashmir. More
recently, it was used by Lashkar's parent organisation Jamaat-ud-Dawa for
education and charity work, they said.

A resident, Nisar Ali, said: "The entire area was sealed off but I heard two
loud blasts in the evening after a military helicopter landed there." The raid
is Pakistan's first known response to the co-ordinated attacks on Mumbai, which
left at least 170 people dead and 300 injured. India says the four-day siege,
which began on November 26, was carried out and plotted by Pakistani militants
belonging to LeT.

Mumbai and the US have repeatedly called for Pakistan to crack down on the
group. Islamabad denies any involvement in the Mumbai attacks but some of the
gunmen are said to have had links to Pakistani militants.

Indian investigators have said that the only gunman captured in Mumbai, Azam
Amir Qasab, had been indoctrinated by LeT and trained at one of their camps.

Although the authorities in Pakistan formally banned the group six years ago and
curbed its activities analysts say its camps were never closed.

LeT, a jihadist militia, was created with the help of Pakistan's intelligence
agencies in the Eighties to be a guerrilla army against Hindus in Indian
Kashmir..

LOAD-DATE: December 8, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2008 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              196 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                          The Guardian - Final Edition

                            December 9, 2008 Tuesday

International: Pakistan arrests 'mastermind' of Mumbai terror attacks: Militant
named by India among 12 seized in raid: Islamabad says local courts to try the
detained

BYLINE: Saeed Shah, Islamabad

SECTION: GUARDIAN INTERNATIONAL PAGES; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 704 words


Pakistan launched its first major operation against the militant group accused
of carrying out the Mumbai attacks, raiding a camp of Lashkar-e-Taiba and
capturing a man identified by India as one of the masterminds behind the
terrorist strike.

According to local reports, 12 members of the banned group including
Zaki-ur-Rehman Lakhvi, accused by Delhi as being one of the planners of the
carnage in India's financial centre, were arrested in Sunday night's raid in the
hills above Muzaffarabad, the capital of Pakistan-controlled Kashmir. A
helicopter gunship hovered overhead and gunfire was heard.

Some Indian officials privately described it as "an important first step",
though there was some scepticism in India about the nature of the raid. The
"camp" that was stormed included a hospital, a madrasa (Islamic school) and
offices. However, it was unclear whether it was a training facility for
militants or just an administrative and charitable site.

The complex was ostensibly being used by Jama't-ud-Da'wah, an Islamic
organisation that it believed to be a front for the banned Lashkar-e-Taiba (LeT)
but claims no links. The camp was subsequently cordoned off.

The Pakistan army acknowledged the raid but provided few details.

"This is an intelligence-led operation against banned militant outfits," said
Major General Athar Abbas, the chief spokesman of the Pakistani army. "There
have been arrests and investigations are on. We are not disclosing any names . .
. Further details will be available after preliminary investigations."

There was no move against LeT's alleged headquarters in Muridke, an hour's drive
from Lahore. The group has denied involvement in the Mumbai attacks.

Muzaffarabad is the nerve-centre of jihadi activity aimed across the line of
control at the portion of Kashmir ruled by India. The three-day Mumbai siege of
started on November 26 and left almost 200 people dead.

Lakhvi was supposed to be LeT's operations chief and, according to some reports,
recruited Ajmal Ameer Kasab, the lone gunman caught alive during the Mumbai
assault. There was no word on what happened to Lakhvi after the arrest or on the
whereabouts of Yusuf Muzammil, who has been named by Delhi as the other main
planner of the Mumbai attack.

It has been reported that the Indian authorities have asked for the two men to
be handed over. Some locals in Muzaffarabad suggested the raid may have been
staged in some aspects, with rumours that the militants were tipped off
beforehand.

In the past, Pakistan has arrested the founder of LeT, Hafiz Saeed, but then
quietly let him go weeks later.

Analysts see little chance that Lakhvi or any other major LeT commander will be
handed over to India. The Pakistani president, Ali Asif Zardari, has said that
anyone detained in Pakistan will be tried there.

Islamabad is under intense international pressure to act against LeT, which was
officially banned in 2002. But any concerted attempt by the Pakistani
authorities to suppress the militant group further would be likely be met with a
violent response by the group and a political backlash in Pakistan, placing
Islamabad in a no-win position.

The government yesterday again complained that India had not shared evidence it
had claimed it had on the participation of groups or individuals based in
Pakistan. Islamabad also proposed that it would send a "high-level delegation"
to Delhi.

"The main site of LeT is Muridke, Lahore, but they haven't done that," said
Vikram Sood, an analyst in Delhi and former head of India's Research and
Analysis Wing intelligence agency. "I wouldn't say this is a major move but I
think it's to pre-empt any (Indian) action."

Within Pakistan, the religious right was scathing over the Muzaffarabad raid.

"We've known for a long time that (the camp) was there. If we wanted to take
action, we should have done so, but not under the external pressure we now
face," said Fazlur Rehman, head of the Jamiat Ulema-e-Islam, a hardline
religious party, part of the ruling coalition in Islamabad.

Qazi Hussain Ahmad, head of Pakistan's other main religious party,
Jamaat-e-Islami, said: "This (raid) is wrong. It's all a conspiracy by India and
the US. This action shows up the weakness of this (Pakistani) government."

LOAD-DATE: December 9, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2008 Guardian Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              197 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                            The Independent (London)

                            December 9, 2008 Tuesday
                                 First Edition

ANDREAS LIVERAS;
Entrepreneur killed in Mumbai terrorist attacks

BYLINE: David McKittrick

SECTION: OBITUARIES; Pg. 32

LENGTH: 886 words


Although he was to be killed by terrorists within the hour, the voice of Andreas
Liveras was calm and collected as he spoke on the phone to the BBC in the midst
of the Mumbai massacre. Trapped in the Taj Mahal Palace hotel along with
hundreds of others, he could hear the sounds of explosions and machine-gun fire
as battle raged. Yet although the ordeal was a terrifying one, he gave a clear
description of his plight. Apart from one nervous laugh, he held his emotions in
check as he outlined his nightmare situation.

"The bombs are next door," he said. "The hotel is shaking every time a bomb goes
off."

The terrorists who killed him brought to a brutal end a life which was, in his
own words, a rags-to-riches tale. He began life as the son of a shepherd in
Cyprus; he ended it as one of Britain's 300 richest people. Andreas Liveras
amassed several fortunes, shrewdly spotting commercial opportunities and
building major businesses on them. "He was a man with a big idea," said one of
his friends.

Born in Anayia near Nicosia, the eldest of eight children, Liveras made a modest
living as a taxi driver and hiring out agricultural equipment. He once narrowly
escaped with his life when a tractor's brakes failed, clutching at bushes as the
vehicle toppled down a steep ravine. Business was slow in Cyprus and he moved to
London at the age of 28 to make a fresh start.

He started as a van driver at a small Kensington bakery named Fleur de Lys, then
was promoted into management. When the bakery owner decided to close the shop
five years later, he stepped up to buy the business.

It prospered as he spotted the growing market for ready-made meals, developing
lines such as that 1970s favourite, Black Forest gateau. By the time he sold the
business to a major company in 1985 it was one of the largest independent
manufacturers of frozen gateaux in Europe.

Its £12m price tag enabled him to move to Nottinghamshire and set up another
business, Laurens Patisseries, in the town of Newark. The former local council
leader Tony Roberts said of him: "I first met Andreas when he proposed to bring
a cake factory into Newark. The town was going through the economic doldrums at
the time and there was quite a lot of unemployment, so for somebody to come in
and set up a factory offering about 150 jobs was big news. He was a great
salesman. He came good on his word and effectively trebled the number of
employment places he had offered to about 450. He was a big character - larger
than life."

Laurens grew into a huge enterprise before Liveras sold it, in 2006, to the
Icelandic food giant Bakkavor for £130m. At that point he went into retirement,
indulging himself with luxury yachts and piloting his own plane. But bored with
this, he identified another marketing opportunity in the luxury yachting world,
zeroing in on those who liked sailing in splendour but lacked the big money or
the inclination to buy their own vessel.

Starting with one 25-metre ship, Liveras Yachts quickly grew into a major
business, owning and leasing out 13 luxury yachts over the years. Opulence and
grandeur were its keynotes. One of its crafts, the 85-metre Alysia, can carry
more than 30 guests. It features a helicopter landing pad, a health and beauty
centre, a marble-faced Roman bath, saunas, steam rooms, a beauty salon and a
fully-equipped gymnasium. All this comes at a cost of around 700,000 euros per
week, a price which has not proved prohibitive to customers such as the
Manchester United footballer Wayne Rooney, the singer Robbie Williams and the
King of Bahrain.

Liveras acquired and built ever-bigger crafts. "The bigger the boat - the more
expensive, the more quality - the busier they are," he said a few years ago.
"Our clients are kings, princesses, millionaires, film stars - they're not the
everyday shopper. There's a lot of rich people out there, a lot of Americans,
who at this moment are hesitating coming. But we have the Russians, we have the
Arabs, and there's a lot of money in the pocket that people would like to
spend."

The success of this business put him and his family into the super-rich bracket,
with a rich-list ranking of 265th in Britain and an estimated worth of £315m. It
was the Alysia which took Andreas Liveras to Mumbai. There, he related to the
BBC, he went to the Taj Mahal Palace because he had been told it was the best
restaurant in the city. "But as soon as we sat at the table," he said, "we heard
the machine-gun fire outside in the corridor. We hid ourselves under the table
and then they switched all the lights off. But the machine-guns kept going, and
they took us into the kitchen, and from there into a basement, before we came up
into a salon where we are now. The doors are locked and we are inside." His
death took place soon afterwards.

His brother Theopanis, a publisher, said he travelled the world, adding, "He
didn't imagine this would happen. He feels safe everywhere he travels."

Andreas Liveras once said that everybody told him he was a lucky man. "People
say that I'm the king of yachting," he added. "I do make money from my boats. I
never lost any money on my boats, and this is my hobby. I am the proudest and
the happiest man in the world."

Andreas Liveras, businessman: born Anayia, Cyprus 1 April 1935; married (three
daughters, one son); died Mumbai 26 November 2008.

LOAD-DATE: December 8, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: IA


                      Copyright 2008 Independent Print Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                              198 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                                  Morning Star

                            December 9, 2008 Tuesday

Sport - Cricket - The tour of greed;
Former Pakistan captain Rashid Latif claimed yesterday that countries are only
willing to tour India following the terrorist attacks in Mumbai because of the
financial clout of the Board of Control in India

LENGTH: 619 words


England decided to return for a two-Test series yesterday despite abandoning a
seven-match one-day programme five matches in because of the trouble in Mumbai.

Teams have refused to tour Pakistan, however, since the political unrest which
saw former Prime Minister Benazir Bhutto assassinated last December.

Australia indefinitely postponed a scheduled series in April this year, while
the Champions Trophy was postponed after several teams refused to travel because
of security concerns.

Latif hit out at Australia captain Ricky Ponting, who recently said that India
was crucial for the game.

"I think Ponting should be honest enough to say that the cricket world needs
India only because of its huge commercial market for the game," Latif said.

"It has nothing to do with security.

"It is terrible the way the International Cricket Council and other boards are
insisting on cricket resuming in India.

"What happened in Mumbai was terrible but, if teams can play in India, why not
in Pakistan?

"All this talk about security concerns by Australia and other teams now stands
exposed.

"It is all about money and nothing else.

"If India didn't have the financial clout, no team would bother to go there so
soon after the Mumbai attacks."

Latif said that security could not be guaranteed anywhere in the world.

"Anything can happen anywhere and when teams can accept security assurances from
the BCCI and government, why can't they do the same when the PCB and the
government urges them to tour?" he asked.

"The truth is no one can dare ignore the money India is putting into the game.

"It is nothing but greed."

However, Pakistan coach Intikhab Alam hailed England's decision to return for
the Test series against India as a good sign for his country.

"I see it as a positive step," said Intikhab. "This is a boost for Pakistan and
hopefully teams will tour Pakistan as well."

Former India Test wicketkeeper Nayan Mongia admitted yesterday that he is
delighted with England's decision to bring their whole squad, stressing: "It's
great news they are coming and it's great news for cricket."

The current players, however, are still coming to terms with the impact of the
attacks, which killed 188 people during an organised campaign on several of
Mumbai's landmarks.

Mumbai resident Sachin Tendulkar has admitted to being "haunted" by the
incidents, while young leg-spinner Amit Mishra believes that the events could
help motivate India when the cricket finally resumes on Thursday.

"We're all pained and saddened by what happened in Mumbai, but it will motivate
us to give our best for the country," Mishra said. "We hope to win convincingly
and try to bring some cheer to the public, who have undergone a lot of pain in
the last few weeks."

Former Test cricketer Chris Broad also backed the decision of England's players,
describing it as "important for world cricket."

Broad, whose son Stuart is a member of the squad that will play in Chennai on
Thursday, believes that the correct decision has been taken, adding that failure
to complete the tour would have served to "isolate" Indian cricket.

"I think it's a terrific decision for cricket in general," Broad told BBC Radio
Five Live. "Obviously, it's a tough one for the England players to have made and
the Indian players, of course, because they are also under some kind of threat,
but I think it's a terrific decision. I think this tour is important for world
cricket.

Broad, however, did inadvertently back Latif's assertion that the Test series
was going ahead for financial reasons. "Over 70 per cent of funds for
international cricket come from the Indian sub-continent, so clearly there is a
monetary issue there, but it's huge for the game of cricket that India is not
isolated."

LOAD-DATE: December 9, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


               Copyright 2008 People's Press Printing Society Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                              199 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                    BBC Monitoring Asia Pacific - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                          December 10, 2008 Wednesday

Vietnam's envoy to UN condemns Mumbai terrorist attack

LENGTH: 293 words


Text of report in English by state-run Vietnamese news agency VNA website

[From "Politics-Diplomacy" page: "Vietnam Joins Intl Efforts to Fight
Terrorism"]

New York (VNA) -Vietnam condemns the terrorism of all types and shows sympathy
for the Indian victims of terrorist attacks in Mumbai on Nov. 26, said a
Vietnamese diplomat.

Ambassador Hoang Chi Trung, Charge d' Affaires to the United Nations, made the
statement at the UN Security Council's open debate on international terrorism
prevention in New York on December 9.

The event, which took place in the context of recent terrorist attacks in
Mumbai, was attended by UN Secretary General Ban Ki-moon, who told participants
that the fight against terrorism is a high priority of the international
community.

Trung said efforts to fight terrorism can only be successful with all nations'
coordination and emphasised the UN's role in coordinating international
cooperation on the basis of abiding by international law, respect for national
sovereignty and territorial integrity as well as non-interference in internal
affairs.

While attaching importance to measures to punish terrorist attacks'
perpetrators, the UN should focus on addressing the root causes of the
terrorism, including political and socio-economic inequality, poverty, the use
of force in international relations and illegal territorial occupation, the
ambassador said.

Trung said in conclusion that the Vietnamese Government has prioritised efforts
to prevent crimes and terrorism through strengthening a legal system for crime
prevention, raising public awareness of the issue, as well as enhancing
cooperation with regional countries, especially in the framework of ASEAN
cooperation.

Source: VNA news agency website, Hanoi, in English 10 Dec 08

LOAD-DATE: December 10, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2008 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              200 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                 The Irish Post

                               December 10, 2008

Mumbai terror attacks a warning to us all

SECTION: JOE GILTRAP

LENGTH: 893 words


THE SICKENING scenes of carnage in Mumbai should send shock waves around the
world. The simple fact is that if groups of terrorists decide to attack any
innocent civilian target then there is very little anyone can do except to react
when it happens. This has been demonstrated over and over again with the attacks
and the reactions usually played out on television for the whole world to see.

Could the intelligence services have done better? The answer has to be a
resounding yes. This attack must have taken some time to plan and it is thought
that the terrorists came from Pakistan. Security services were aware of an
impending attack, even naming the hotel, but somehow the warnings were
mishandled and over 170 people died and nearly 400 were injured.

The fact that one 21-year-old terrorist survived is a crucial piece of good luck
and his revelations are terrifying. He claims that they had hoped to kill 5,000
and had been told to target Israelis, British and American nationals and he has
no regrets. It makes you realise just what security forces around the world are
up against. It could happen here because it has been shown that it could happen
anywhere. The world is awash with disgusting weapons of every kind and I am sure
that there is no shortage of misguided, fanatical, brainwashed volunteers ready
and willing to die for their cause. That is the reality.

The only hope of averting a similar attack in Britain has to come from the
intelligence services and to be fair they probably have had successes that we
will never be told about.

Right-wing newspapers are fond of dragging up the IRA campaign at every
opportunity as if it is a similar situation. It is not the same and never has
been. The IRA had clear and limited specific political aims. They were not
trying to indoctrinate the world. They were prepared to talk to the British
Government and as we know there was contact most of the time. The result is
there for all to see.

These terrorists are not remotely interested in talking to anyone and since
dying is considered the highest honour it naturally follows that negotiation
would not be of any great interest to them. Their only agenda is to take as many
lives as possible before they go to their imaginary reward.We wish them complete
failure and a speedy journey.

-  Value Added Tax (VAT) was first introduced in Britain in 1973. Thirty-five
years later Gordon Brown, in the guise of Alistair Darling, decides to reduce it
by 2.5 per cent for a short time and somehow we are all supposed to be grateful.
When it goes back up it will undoubtedly be increased. What difference is a 2.5
per cent reduction going to make to our ordinary everyday lives? Precious little
in fact and we will pay for it down the line. This government is the master of
disguise and spin.

Instead of simple transparent adjustments they try to blind us with complicated,
convoluted, migraine-inducing calculations and while I would not trust them as
far as I could throw them, where is the alternative?

I don't believe that they will win the next election unless a miracle happens,
and I shudder to think of the Tories gloating.

The Liberals are a joke so the future does not look bright. Where is the
reduction in interest rates from the credit card companies? Where is the big
mortgage rate cut? All that has happened is that the banks have been bailed out
at our expense.

Not good enough Gordon old son. You wanted the job so badly I'm sure you could
taste it and you got it. It is now up to you to show that you deserved it and
that you can actually handle it. Somehow I think that holding on to it is going
to present your biggest challenge of all.

-  Speaking of challenges and Prime Ministers, I wonder how Brian Cowen is
feeling at the moment? He has Enda Kenny and Fine Gael straining at the bit in
the wings but would they do any better?

I love the idea of a senior citizens party and if the Irish Government is not
careful they will find themselves being cast adrift. The Senior Solidarity Party
will rattle a few cages if it manages to get enough members. Members must be
over 60 and the party is looking to make some inroads in next year's local
elections. Go for it I say. If the students support them they could do
well.Wouldn't that be something to behold?

The present scandal regarding the carry-on and outrageous expenses run up by F S
executives should have served as a warning shot across the bow but probably
won't. Brian Cowen made a mistake trying to stand by F S executive Rody Molloy.
Some things are simply indefensible and Cowen should have stood tall and had the
guts to tell it like it is.

With the economy in meltdown and jobs disappearing by the day and the polls
showing Fine Gael way ahead, this was no time to try to brazen things out.
Loyalty is an admirable trait but it is also a two-way street. F S executives
showed no loyalty to anybody or anything. Their only concern seemed to be to
milk the cashcow for every last drop for as long as possible.

Brian Cowen's stubbornness shows he is out of touch with public opinion and the
perception on the street is of a government that does not have a clue what to do
next. It is fine to talk things up when things get tough and nobody could blame
Cowen for that, but to me it is a bit like the man whistling as loud as possible
as he passes by the graveyard in the middle of the night.

LOAD-DATE: December 17, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                    Copyright 2008 Thomas Crosbie Media Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              201 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                   The Mirror

                          December 10, 2008 Wednesday
                                 3 Star Edition

COUNCIL BOSS ATTACKED BY TERROR HUBBY;
COURT

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 31

LENGTH: 113 words


CHILDREN'S services boss Lisa Christensen was slapped in the face by her drunken
husband - an ex-Angry Brigade member.

Now Jake Prescott, 64, who served 10 years for conspiracy to cause bombings in
the 70s, faces being jailed again for assaulting the pounds 120,000-a-year
Norfolk county council director.

Colleagues, who were unaware Lisa was wed to a convicted terrorist, said: "This
is embarrassing. Her choice of partner is odd."

Ex-heroin addict Prescott admitted the attack at their Mattishall home earlier.

But Thetford JPs warned him custody was being considered after he also pleaded
guilty this week to harassment while on bail.

He was remanded in custody until December 22.

LOAD-DATE: December 10, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                            Copyright 2008 MGN Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              202 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                                  Morning Star

                          December 10, 2008 Wednesday

World - 'Terrorist' captive to confess to 2001 attacks on US

LENGTH: 192 words


Alleged terrorist mastermind Khalid Sheikh Mohammed said on Monday that he will
confess in his Guantanamo Bay trial to the September 11 2001 attacks on the US.

Four other defendants also abandoned their defences. The judge ordered lawyers
to advise him by January 4 on whether the Pentagon could apply the death
penalty, which military prosecutors are seeking without a jury trial.

In an about-turn that appeared to take the court by complete surprise, the five
men requested "an immediate hearing session to announce our confessions."

The formal confessions were delayed when the judge said that two of the
defendants could not enter pleas until the court had determined their mental
competency. The other three said that they would wait as well.

"Our plea request was based on joint strategy," said defendant Ali Abd al-Aziz
Ali.

Relatives of some of the 2,975 victims of the attacks on the World Trade Centre
and the Pentagon in 2001 watched the proceedings from behind a glass partition.

Alice Hoagland, whose son Mark Bingham was on United Flight 93 which went down
in rural Pennsylvania, said that the defendants should not be executed and
become martyrs.

LOAD-DATE: December 10, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


               Copyright 2008 People's Press Printing Society Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                              203 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                                  Morning Star

                          December 10, 2008 Wednesday

Sport - Cricket: England to donate first Test fees to Mumbai fund;
England's players have pledged to donate half their match fees from tomorrow's
opening Test in India towards the victims of the terrorist attacks in Mumbai

LENGTH: 538 words


Following a meeting at the team hotel yesterday, the players issued a joint
statement pledging fees of around £35,000 to help those affected by the attacks
two weeks ago, which killed 181 people.

The statement, which was read by opening batsman Alastair Cook, said: "The
England players will donate half their match fees from the first Test match to
the families of those victims of the Mumbai attacks."

England's return, the players said, signified their "open and public statement
of support for the Indian people following the tragic events in Mumbai
recently." In the statement, the squad also extended their sympathies to those
affected by the attacks.

Cook added: "We have made a massive pact this morning at our meeting when we
came up with the statement that this is it and nothing else can distract us from
playing cricket.

"It was something that everyone wanted to get across because as a side we felt
we wanted to do it."

And, as England began preparations for the start of the series at the Chepauk
Stadium, Cook admitted that the disrupted warm-up programme could bond the team
together.

The Essex left-hander famously scored an unbeaten century on his Test debut at
Nagpur having been flown out from the A tour in West Indies two years ago
following an injury to then captain Michael Vaughan.

His success in similarly disrupted circumstances has given England hope that
they can defy expectations and compete against an India side who beat Australia
only last month.

"What has happened recently has been taken out of our control, but this side has
got behind each other and made some tough decisions," he continued.

"We're here as a unit now and we have to play some cricket.

"The preparation isn't ideal but I came here two years ago, flying halfway
around the world and had one training session and then played, so it can be
done.

"You don't just suddenly lose your technique overnight.

"I remember turning up for my first Test match and jet lag doesn't really affect
you when you've got adrenalin kicking through your body.

"You can use any excuse about the preparation, but I turned up last time having
travelled all the way around the world and, luckily, I performed well on that
day and it proves, if you're mentally switched on, you can achieve things and
that's what we need to do as a side now."

As England practised at the stadium, the ever-present security was evident with
the Rapid Action Force, a heavily armed branch of the police department,
guarding the outfield at all times.

And, when the steady rain that ruined India's session earlier in the day finally
ceased, England were able to return to playing cricket again with Ian Bell and
Andrew Strauss the first in the nets to begin England's Test preparations.

"First and foremost, we are cricketers and we just want to play cricket," said
Cook.

"It will be great to get back to something we know and something we know more
about rather than talking about stuff we don't really know about.

"Abu Dhabi was brilliant in terms of training, but we still had that overlying
thought of what the security report would say.

"Now, it has come back and said it is safe, we're very excited about playing
cricket and not worrying about other stuff we don't really know about."

LOAD-DATE: December 10, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


               Copyright 2008 People's Press Printing Society Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                              204 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                             PA Newswire: Scotland

                    December 10, 2008 Wednesday 4:04 PM BST

AIRPORT HERO TELLS OF TERROR OF ASTHMA ATTACK

BYLINE: Hilary Duncanson, Press Association Scotland

SECTION: PA Newswire: Scotland

LENGTH: 496 words


Have-a-go hero John Smeaton said today he would rather go through what happened
at Glasgow Airport every week than suffer an asthma attack.

The 32-year-old asthma sufferer spoke out two months after an attack which
nearly killed him.

The former baggage handler, from Erskine, Renfrewshire, was admitted to
intensive care in October after collapsing while watching television at home.

Describing it as ``the worst asthma attack of my life'', he told a gathering at
the Scottish Parliament in Edinburgh that he wanted to make people aware of just
how serious the condition can be.

Speaking afterwards, he said: ``There's nothing more frightening than having an
asthma attack.

``Not being able to breathe is the worst experience I have ever had in my life.

``I'd rather go through what happened in Glasgow Airport once a week than ever
have an asthma attack again.

``It's the most scary thing that any human being can ever go through.''

Mr Smeaton suffered his asthma attack on the day two men went on trial accused
of carrying out the alleged car bomb attack on Glasgow Airport in June last
year.

He was catapulted to fame following his efforts to foil the alleged attack and
his comments in a TV interview, when he warned: ``This is Glasgow you know,
we'll set about you.''

He now acts as an official ambassador for Asthma UK Scotland.

Mr Smeaton today went on to hit out at those who post ``despicable'' videos on
the internet, mocking sufferers having asthma attacks.

Addressing Holyrood's Cross-Party Group on Asthma, he said: ``After seeing these
videos on YouTube, and realising how bad I was with an asthma attack, and seeing
people sit and laugh at people having an asthma attack, I don't think there's
many more despicable things I've seen in my life.

``To see people laughing at people in distress not only makes me angry, but it
makes me very sad.''

He went on: ``Instead of using their mobile phone to phone an ambulance, they
use a mobile phone to video and then put them on YouTube so we can laugh at
them.''

Mr Smeaton has had asthma for the past 20 years and was in intensive care when
he was 19.

He recounted how his parents were told he had three hours to live, just days
after the recent attack.

``I was going into renal failure, my liver was about to fail, my kidneys were
going, my whole body was beginning to swell and my brain started to swell, so I
wasn't in a very good way,'' he said.

The condition kills one person every seven hours in Britain, and Mr Smeaton
believes a doctor's decision to put him on two ventilators ultimately stopped
him from adding to the grim statistics.

He says the whole experience has changed the way he lives his life and he has
since quit smoking.

``I had the warning signs, but I ignored them,'' he said.

``When I was 19 I was in intensive care, but I kind of forgot all about it.

``I went back to saying 'It was only asthma'.

``I was smoking, I did everything that asthmatics aren't meant to do.

``Now, it's totally made me change my whole life.''

LOAD-DATE: December 10, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newswire


                  Copyright 2008 The Press Association Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              205 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                               The Times (London)

                          December 10, 2008 Wednesday
                                   Edition 1

Catch a tiger by its many tales;
Inspiration is everywhere in India - even in the Mumbai terror attacks, as
Rachel Campbell-Johnston finds at a new show

BYLINE: Rachel Campbell- Johnston

SECTION: T2; FEATURES; Pg. 14,15

LENGTH: 1272 words


Indian Highway Serpentine Gallery HHHII Everything must have looked so promising
to the curators when, a couple of years ago, they started planning Indian
Highway.

This exhibition presents a quick snapshot of contemporary art from India, and
how could that not be fun? With the richness and variety, the exoticism and
vitality of the sub-continent to pick from, there could hardly have been a
hotter prospect for the winter months.

In a show of work by some 15 artists picked from all over the country and
presenting mostly new and sometimes specifically commissioned pieces in a range
of media that covers anything from painting through photography and film to
performance, installation and audio recordings, there is certainly plenty to
occupy the gallery-goer.

Such as a brightly coloured frieze of paintings that doubles up as a sort of
mini-retrospective by the grand old man of Indian art, M. F. Husain. Running
right around the outside walls of the gallery, it leads the spectator on a
bracing postercampaign tour of Indian history, from the epic legends of
windmill-armed gods through a colonial era of pith-helmeted tiger-tramplers to
Mother Teresa.

Sheela Gowda's big industrial construction made of rusty old tar drums turns out
to be a shelter such as the ones lived in by Indian road workers. If you crawl
into its tunnel (don't try if you are claustrophobic) you will find yourself
staring up into a starry infinity (don't try it if you are agoraphobic either).

Meanwhile, Subodh Gupta recreates the office of an Indian bureaucrat. The grubby
ceiling fan cranks slowly round.

Piles of dog-eared files split cupboards at the seams. Old memories settle like
dust.

And there, at the other end of the aesthetic spectrum, is a wall papered (by
Bharti Kher) with an eye-popping circular pattern. It is made of super-sized
psychedelic bindis. The clash of cultures is as glaring as that of the colours
in the space.

Contemporary Indian culture has shared in the success of the great Asian boom.
The only wonder is that the British should have taken so long to discover what
was going on their former colony.

(The French put on a show of contemporary Indian art at the Pompidou more than
20 years ago). And yet now, just as we finally catch on, as the trend-confirming
Serpentine stages Indian Highway and big-time buyers such as Frank Cohen and
Charles Saatchi consolidate their sub-continental collections (the former put on
A Passage to India this summer while the latter promises The Empire Strikes Back
in his swanky new Chelsea art space), everything is starting to wobble. First,
financial meltdown crashes the much-hyped contemporary market and India, the new
kid in the white cube, is the first to take a tumble.

Then there were terrible terrorist attacks in Mumbai. It rather destroys the
celebratory mood.

And this, it turns out, is probably a good thing. Indian Highway is a
significant show. The second chapter in a three-part project in which the
Serpentine explores contemporary developments in three main cultural regions -
China, India and the Middle East - it reflects a fundamental shift in
perceptions.

It's a bit like watching the flicker of a needle on a seismograph: a slight
movement informs you of the earthquake happening far away. In the same way
Indian Highway, a survey of of artists you may not have heard of before,
probably registers little more than a flicker on your "must-see" monitor. But
what you are watching is a sign of far-off upheavals.

The next few decades will probably shift the power balance of the globe.

But don't expect a definitive summary.

The best this show can do, as its title suggests, is provide some sort of path
through the vast and confusing territories of a faroff country. Sometimes this
path is the pot-holed mud track of a third-world nation. Sometimes it is the
superhighway of the modern technology that has been at the crux of India's
economic boom.

Whichever, it's probably best to treat this show as a glimpse through the window
of a moving vehicle. Each work is just a fragment of the present, framed for a
moment and then gone, vanishing into a much vaster landscape.

So just go with the flow. The artists do.

Husain for instance, has responded to the Mumbai terrorism by making a
completely new work called Rape of India. The Maharabata's ancient tale of a war
between brothers finds a horrible modern parallel in the attacks. The myth of
Europa and India's sacred cows get all jumbled up.

This exhibition has a fresh improvisatory feel as you wander from N. S. Harsha's
mural, which will be washed away at the end of the show, to the improvisations
of the performance artist Nikhil Chopra (you can visit him - and his tiffin
boxes, hot-water bottles and top hat - in his tent in the gardens from today to
Friday).

If India's contemporary aesthetic can be defined by anything, it is probably by
its lack of clear definition. Outside blurs with inside as the outer walls
become a gallery and the gardens a performance site. East and West merge
stylistically: Picasso meets the Maharabata, women in saris enjoy a Déjeuner sur
l'herbe. Spectators become participants as they stand for a photograph in front
of Dayanita Singh's backdrop of Mumbai by night.

This is a picture of a world in flux.

Ancient traditions meet modern innovations.

Paint meets computer graphics. The old-fashioned tiffin box meets newfangled
technology. We are plunged into that melée that is modern Indian society. And
yet the most probing works in this show are those that find the fault-lines and
fractures; that probe the caste system, Partition, fundamentalism, colonialism,
the fight for Kashmir. Walk along Harsha's mural, look at the crowd that stares
back at you from the far side of the flimsy barrier and feel the threat. Danger
lies hidden amid the jostling masses, he suggests.

Follow the threads of memory in Amar Kanwar's Lightning Testimonies: pieces of
video footage that show us how violence is remembered, recorded, transformed and
assimilated into the human landscape.

Listen to Shilpa Gupta's audio piece in which speeches by Ghandi and Nehru sing
out from two microphones that rock like a seesaw.

The more serious the subject matter, the less the pieces in this show feel like
art works and the more like documentary reports. Perhaps India is moving too
fast at the moment to assimilate its own story.

Artists can record and describe, but they haven't had time to transform and
digest.

Maybe this is why the artist's co-operative from Delhi invited to curate a "show
within a show" displays in its allocated room a series of film documentaries.
Only this oddly hybrid medium - neither artwork nor newsreel - can reflect the
realities of India's hybridised world.

The past cannot be consigned to a land of nostalgia. The present is too painful
for postmodern play. And if you leave this show with mixed feelings you may well
be tapping into India's current mood. 6 Indian Highway and a programme of events
spanning literature, film, performance and dance will run until February 22 at
the Serpentine Gallery, London W2 (020-7402 6075) and other venues

Indian Summer Jodhpur is so the look for next year

The Indian sub-continent will enter our cultural calendar again next May. More
than 50 paintings (including Death of Vali; Rama and Lakshmana Wait Out the
Monsoon, pictured right) will travel to Europe for the first time, as the
British Museum's sumptuous-looking Garden and Cosmos exhibition surveys the
fusion of religion and art in India through the sensual aesthetic developed in
Jodhpur's Royal Court.

See www.britishmuseum.org

'' This show is a glimpse through the window of a moving vehicle

LOAD-DATE: December 10, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Instant reaction Main picture: M. F. Husain's Rape of India is a swift
response to the terrorist outrages in Mumbai at the end of November; left,
detail from N. S. Harsha's Melting Wit, which is also part of the Serpentine
Gallery's show of modern Indian art

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: TIM


                    Copyright 2008 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              206 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                                The Western Mail

                          December 10, 2008 Wednesday
                                 First Edition

There will be no excuses from England as they get ready for thebig Test return
;
Pietersen rallies his men for their Indian task after Mumbai terrorist attacks
big Test return

BYLINE: Myles Hodgson

SECTION: SPORT; Pg. 34

LENGTH: 818 words


KEVIN PIETERSEN has issued strict "no excuses" instructions to England as they
attempt to move on from security issues and focus on the major task of winning a
Test series in India.

Since being appointed as captain last August, Pietersen has been forced to deal
with several issues away from cricket, including the vast riches at stake for
the Stanford showdown and England's failure to overcome those distractions in
Antigua.

But his biggest test yet has been over the last 10 days when he has successfully
rallied his team and persuaded them to return to India for a two-Test series in
the aftermath of the terrorist attacks on Mumbai.

Few would blame England if they were badly beaten in the series, which begins at
the Chepauk Stadium tomorrow, after their preparation was severely disrupted by
a spell at home considering the security implications of their return.

Pietersen, though, sets high standards and when he leads his team out for the
start of the series, he will not accept any excuses from them if they struggle
against India's in-form line-up.

"You could say we can't lose in this situation, but that's also a way of looking
at things negatively and finding excuses - I don't want any excuses about what
has happened," said Pietersen.

"There is to be no nonsense said about what has happened. I told the boys this
morning that it's a case of coming to this Test match series like it would be in
England.

"We travelled on Monday, we'll practise on Tuesday and Wednesday and play on
Thursday.

"What has happened has happened and we can't control it, but we're in a very
privileged position to be playing Test match cricket in India and we've got to
deal with it in a professional manner."

Pietersen and the rest of the squad attempted to halt the endless talk about
security yesterday by issuing a joint statement following a team meeting when
they pledged to donate half their match fees from the opening Test - around
pounds 35,000 - to a fund to help the families affected by the Mumbai attacks.

They also underlined their desire to help the Indian people through their
healing period, but above all they want to atone for a dismal start to their
winter - defeat in the Stanford showdown and in the five one-day internationals
against India - by delivering a performance in these two Tests.

"The main focus now is definitely on the Test series," Pietersen insisted.

"It hasn't been a great start to the winter, there's been so much that's
happened in the last six weeks and it's now a case of getting on and
concentrating on the cricket.

"We need to chuck everything away that's happened in that six weeks to make sure
that now our primary goal and focus is to try and win this Test match series."

To achieve that, England will have to try to block out the circumstances
surrounding their build-up to the Test with evidence of increased security
following their every step.

Members of the Rapid Action Force, a highly-armed branch of the police force
designed to combat riots, patrolled the boundary with machine guns as England
practised for the first time since their return.

But Pietersen believes it is a situation England may have to become accustomed
to in the years ahead if they are going to continue touring on the
sub-continent, no matter how oppressive it may seem.

"Whatever was said to us has happened," he said.

"For the rest of my career, probably, that's what's going to happen now for
future tours to the sub-continent - we're just going to have to deal with it and
play the cricket.

"It can be stifling to a certain degree, but our primary focus and goal now as
international cricketers and sportsmen is to try and win a Test series.

"We've got to chuck everything away that's happened, create this little bubble
that we've got here and go and perform."

Now cricket is at the top of the agenda, Pietersen and the selectors have
several issues to address before they name their line-up for the opening Test.

Wicket-keeper Tim Ambrose's place would seem under threat following an
unconvincing series at home to South Africa, but Matt Prior was no more
impressive during the recent one-day series in India.

They also have to find a replacement in their attack for Stuart Broad, who is
still nursing the hamstring strain he sustained during the one-day series, while
Owais Shah's form during the one-day series will have to be considered.

"There are a lot of cricket issues to think through," added Pietersen.

"My head has been given a full working over during the last few days.

"The last six weeks haven't been ideal, but over the last three days there have
been sleepless nights trying to figure out things.

"It's been emotional trying to work out what players are going to do and what
team we were going to bring and now we've got a full squad it means we can
choose from that.

"The cricket brain has switched on and decisions have to be made."

LOAD-DATE: December 10, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:  READY: Kevin Pietersen chats with England selector Ashley Giles and
Andrew Flintoff at a nets session in Chennai

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                    Copyright 2008 Western Mail and Echo Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                              207 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring South Asia - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                           December 11, 2008 Thursday

Pakistan: UN designates four men linked to Mumbai attacks as "terrorists"

LENGTH: 170 words


Text of report by Pakistan's private television channel Geo News website on 11
December

United Nations: A UN Security Council panel has designated four men linked to
the Mumbai attacks as terrorists subject to sanctions.

The four men are believed to hold leadership positions in the banned Pakistani
militant group Lashkar-e-Toiba that is accused of orchestrating last month's
attacks that left 171 dead in Mumbai.

Designated as terrorists subject to UN sanctions were Zakiur-Rehman Lakhvi,
Lashkar's operations chief; Muhammad Saeed, the group's leader; Haji Muhammad
Ashraf, its chief of finance; and Mahmoud Mohammad Ahmed Bahaziq, a financier
with the group.

The Security Council's Al-Qa'idah and Taleban sanctions committee added them to
its list of terrorists subject to the assets freeze, travel ban and arms embargo
under a council resolution adopted this year.

The US Treasury Department last week designated the men as terrorists and
ordered any US assets frozen.

Source: sGeo TV website, Karachi, in English 11 Dec 08

LOAD-DATE: December 11, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2008 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              208 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                       BBC Monitoring Africa - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                           December 11, 2008 Thursday

Ethiopian police arrest "terrorists" reportedly planning attack on capital

LENGTH: 230 words


Text of report by Ethiopian newspaper The Reporter website on 10 December

Police sources have said that they apprehended this week suspected terrorists,
who were planning to carry out attacks in Addis Ababa in collaboration with
other anti-peace forces.

Police sources said that the terrorists, who were arrested by the National
Information Security Service (NISS) and Federal Police who were preparing to
launch an attack in Addis Ababa, were Ethiopian citizens.

The sources added that joint operations by the NISS and Federal Police to
apprehend terrorists will continue. However, the sources did not say how many
terrorists had been arrested.

Although the police did not say which terrorist group the suspects belonged to,
other sources privy to the issue said that the culprits have connections, and
are even said to be members of the extremist armed youth group, Al-Shabab, that
is operating in Somalia.

It can be recalled that a month ago, the Federal Police and the Anti-Terrorist
Task Force of the National Information Security Service (NISS) issued a
statement warning that terrorist groups could attack the [capital]. They urged
the public to foil these plans before they materialized.

The statement asked the public to be vigilant and report any "alien" seen around
market places, hotels and other public places.

Source: The Reporter website, Addis Ababa, in Amharic 10 Dec 08

LOAD-DATE: December 11, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2008 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              209 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                          The Daily Telegraph (London)

                           December 11, 2008 Thursday

2012 Games 'vulnerable to terrorist attack';
Former Tory minister Patten warns 'smart' bombs could be laid into foundations

BYLINE: Paul Kelso Chief Sports Reporter

SECTION: SPORT; London 2012; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 644  words


JOHN PATTEN, a former

Home Office minister and an adviser to the British Olympic Association, has
warned that inadequate security procedures have left London 2012 venues
vulnerable to terrorist attack.

Patten, who was a Cabinet minister in the last Conservative government and
served as Northern Ireland secretary

said that the Olympic Park site in east London is already vulnerable to
terrorists who could plant smart bombs in the foundations of venues currently
under construction.

Writing in the latest edition of The Spectator, Patten, who is a member of the
BOA's advisory board, claims that well-placed sources have told him the Olympic
project is suffering from a lack of security planning.

Patten claims that the acrimonious departure of Metropolitan Police assistant
commissioner Tarique Ghaffur, who was overseeing Olympic security before he sued
the force claiming racial equality, has hindered the project.

He also suggests that the key agencies involved in organising security are
bickering over who takes the lead role, undermining confidence in the entire
project.

"In an age of determined and technologically sophisticated incremental
terrorism, the

Met and the Security Services must overcome everything

from highly unfortunate

public rows over employment discrimination affecting key officers involved to
more private inter-agency rivalries,'' Patten writes.

"Forget about policing crowds in 2012, pipework and brickwork is being laid now
which is vulnerable to smart devices that can lurk latent until 2012. At least
one person from that world tells me that there is no real integrated concept of
operations yet. Someone or somebody must provide that focus and work with a
semi-detached Home Secretary.''

Patten's observations, part

of a wide-ranging critique of the project, will fuel concerns already expressed
that security planning is behind schedule.

Earlier this year, the Public Accounts Committee warned that security
master-planning for the project was behind schedule.

The Home Office is working on a strategy document and had planned to put it to
the Olympic board before the end of the year. It is expected to unveil its plans
in the new year.

When questioned on the issue by The Daily Telegraph last month, Home Secretary
Jacqui Smith said she was satisfied that the total security budget of  pounds
838 million would be sufficient to cover the final bill, but declined to comment
on details of the plan.

Security promises to be among the most contentious areas for London organisers,
not least because it is the most elastic part of the budget. While cuts can be
made to venues

and infrastructure no one will countenance cutting back on public safety.

A spokesman for the Department for Culture, Media and Sport said: "The
Government is fully engaged in the development of the safety and security plan
for London 2012 - the issue is both being gripped and guided at ministerial
level with control applied at all the right levels in the governance structure.

"The UK has an excellent record of delivering safe and secure major sporting and
cultural events and it will deliver a safe, secure and resilient 2012 London
Olympic and Paralympic Games.

"Good progress is being made in developing a costed security plan which we will
be fully integrated with those produced by the London Organising Committee of
the Olympic Games (Locog) and the Olympic Delivery Authority.''

An ODA spokesman added: "We have worked closely with our partners, including the
Met Police, right from the outset to ensure the Olympic Park is designed to be
secure during Games and legacy. Robust and effective plans are in place to
ensure the security and safety of the Olympic Park workforce, venues and
infrastructure during construction, access controls for the site are rigorous
and potential voids, such as pipes, are checked and certified throughout
construction.''

LOAD-DATE: December 11, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2008 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              210 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                            The Independent (London)

                           December 11, 2008 Thursday
                                 First Edition

The orphan, the nanny, and a tale of hope from Mumbai;
Son of the rabbi killed in the terror attacks is building a new life in Israel
with the carer who saved his life

BYLINE: Ben Lynfield IN MIGDAL HAEMEK

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 26

LENGTH: 870 words


Looking at the rosy-cheeked toddler kicking over his building-block tower in an
Israeli living room with typical childish abandon, it is hard to imagine that
just two weeks ago, and a continent away, he was wailing forlornly, his parents
lifeless beside him, their blood soaking into his baby clothes.

Having escaped the clutches of the militants who brought carnage to the streets
of Mumbai, Moshe Holtzberg is now - quite literally - in safe hands. They are
those of Sandra Samuel, the Indian nanny who heard his cries and whisked him out
of harm's way.

The last time the world saw the two-year-old, it was at a memorial service for
his parents in the Indian city, his anguished cries for his mother, "Ima, Ima,
Ima", reverberating through the hushed ranks of mourners. Now the boy dubbed the
Miracle of Mumbai is dancing along to songs ahead of the Jewish Hanukkah
holiday, and excitedly exclaiming "big candy" at images of sweets that pop up on
television,

"He is like a normal kid, just enjoying himself. He has gotten used to other
people surrounding him," Ms Samuel explains. "He loves it here. He is in very
good condition, just like normal. He is having his breakfast, lunch and snacks
and he sleeps very well now."

The nanny and her charge are staying at the home of Moshe's great uncle, the
orthodox rabbi Yitzhak David Grossman, the spiritual leader of this small town
in northern Israel and head of its Migdal Ohr educational institution. In a few
days, they are due to move to the home of the toddler's maternal grandparents in
nearby Afula.

Ms Samuel has been Moshe's live-in nanny since he was 10 days old, tending to
him round the clock, feeding him in the morning and reading him nursery rhymes
at night. The 44-year-old has two grown-up sons of her own back in India, but
has no intention of abandoning her young charge any time soon. Israel will be
home for six months, maybe a year, "it depends on how the baby is getting used
to his family".

She is clearly satisfied that Moshe is well. But she dismisses the idea she is a
hero, saying it is inconceivable that she would not have responded to Moshe's
cry. "How could any baby call a person's name and that person not go at once.
How could it be?" And she voices deep regret at not having thought about the
boy's parents - Rabbi Gabriel Holtzberg and wife Rivka - during the ordeal. All
thoughts were on the child. "I'm not an angel. If I was brave I would have given
the baby to Jacky [a colleague] and done something for my rabbi and Rivki ... I
didn't think. The baby was more important to me so I took him."

The Holtzberg family ran the Chabad Jewish religious centre and guesthouse in
Mumbai, buildings that were to witness one of the bloodiest hold-outs in the
series of attacks that rocked Mumbai last month. Army commandos rappelled from
helicopters on to the roof; others blew a hole in a wall to get in and oust the
stubborn militants. Yet despite these efforts, seven people at Chabad House were
to die at the hands of the militants. And had Ms Samuel's son come to collect
her for the evening as he did most Wednesdays, that death toll would probably
have included little Moshe. But her son didn't show and so she was there at the
time of the attack. "God kept me there because God already knew what would
happen," is the explanation given.

When the militants' assault began late on Wednesday, she hid between two
refrigerators in a first-floor storeroom with a fellow worker, and stayed there
until she heard Moshe calling her name the next morning. "I heard bombs that
sounded like balloons and I came from the kitchen shouting at children, 'Why are
you making noises?' As I went to the corner of the first floor, I saw one boy
shooting at me and I moved back and closed the door. I still didn't think it was
serious but then I heard lots of shots and bombs going off. Even now it seems
like a dream, it's not settled in my mind."

In the storeroom, Ms Samuel recalled, "I was saying God's name, Jesus's name,
the Holy Spirit's name. There is strength from these names." She said she kept
thinking about Moshe. "I was thinking of the baby, I was not thinking of Rabbi
Gaby. I had full hope he would come out of it. I was telling the Lord, just keep
my baby safe."

On Thursday at 10.45am she heard Moshe crying one floor above her. "He was just
crying my name - 'Sandra. Sandra'," she says. When she got to the room from
which the cries emanated, she saw the child's parents on the floor. "They were
not hurt. Rabbi Gaby had a little fresh blood next to his feet. Rivki was on the
floor, it was like she was sleeping. They looked like they were asleep. I gave a
look, picked him up and ran. I ran without anything. Just his doll. I picked the
doll up because he is used to that doll."

For the first four nights after the attack, Moshe would wake every night,
wanting his parents. Now, Ms Samuel says, he sleeps soundly and no longer
mentions mum and dad. "He is not even asking for them now because he is too
happy. He loves it here. He has swings, a garden, a see-saw." The trappings may
be those of an ordinary toddler, but the little boy enjoying them is anything
but.

Readers wishing to donate to The Moshe Fund can do so by calling 00 972 4849
5570

LOAD-DATE: December 10, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: IA


                      Copyright 2008 Independent Print Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                              211 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                PA Regional Newswire of English Regions: LONDON

                    December 11, 2008 Thursday 12:21 PM BST

OLYMPICS SITE 'OPEN TO TERROR ATTACK'

SECTION: PA Regional Newswire for English Regions

LENGTH: 364 words


The London 2012 Olympics site is open to terrorist attack because there is still
a lack of security planning, a former Home Office minister has claimed.

Lord Patten, a former Tory Cabinet minister who is on a advisory board for the
British Olympic Association, claimed the east London Olympic site is vulnerable
to terrorists who could plant smart bombs in the foundations.

Lord Patten argues the departure of Assistant Metropolitan Police Commissioner
Tarique Ghaffur, who was once in charge of the security masterplanning for the
2012 Games, after settling a race discrimination claim may be the least of the
Met's worries.

Writing in The Spectator magazine, Lord Patten argues: ``In an age of determined
and technologically sophisticated incremental terrorism, the Met and Security
Services must overcome everything from highly unfortunate public rows over
employment discrimination affecting key officers involved to more private
inter-agency rivalries.''

He also warns: ``Forget about policing crowds in 2012, pipework and brickwork is
being laid now which is vulnerable to smart devices that can lurk latent until
2012.

At least one person from that world tells me that there is no real integrated
concept of operations yet. Someone must provide that focus and work with a
semi-detached Home Secretary.``

A spokesman for the Olympic Delivery Authority, which is in charge of Olympic
build and infrastructure, said: ``We have worked closely with our partners,
including the Met Police, right from the outset to ensure the Olympic Park is
designed to be secure during Games and legacy.

``Robust and effective plans are also in place to ensure the security and safety
of the Olympic Park workforce, venues and infrastructure during construction,
access controls for the site are rigorous and potential voids, such as pipes,
are checked and certified throughout construction.''

The Metropolitan Police said they were committed to ensuring a safe and secure
2012 Olympics.

A spokesman said: ``Minimising the potential for criminal activities related to
the Games, from theft to terrorism, is part of this work and builds on the
robust structures the Met and partners currently have in place.'' end

LOAD-DATE: December 11, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newswire


                  Copyright 2008 The Press Association Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              212 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                              Sevenoaks Chronicle

                               December 11, 2008

What to do in a terrorist attack

SECTION: Pg. 15

LENGTH: 62 words


1)      Ring the emergency services. Never assume someone else has already done
so.

2)      Account for all members of staff.

3)      Take all staff to a secure part of the building, away from glass windows
or doors.

4)      Do not wander into large, open spaces.

5)      If possible, treat those with minor injuries.

6)      Wait  for instructions from the emergency services.

LOAD-DATE: December 12, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: 103


                       Copyright 2008 Sevenoaks Chronicle
                              All Rights Reserved

                              213 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                              Sevenoaks Chronicle

                               December 11, 2008

What to do in a terrorist attack

SECTION: Pg. 15

LENGTH: 62  words


1)      Ring the emergency services. Never assume someone else has already done
so.

2)      Account for all members of staff.

3)      Take all staff to a secure part of the building, away from glass windows
or doors.

4)      Do not wander into large, open spaces.

5)      If possible, treat those with minor injuries.

6)      Wait  for instructions from the emergency services.

LOAD-DATE: June 11, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: 103


                       Copyright 2008 Sevenoaks Chronicle
                              All Rights Reserved

                              214 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                              Sevenoaks Chronicle

                               December 11, 2008

What to do in a terrorist attack

SECTION: Pg. 15

LENGTH: 62 words


1)      Ring the emergency services. Never assume someone else has already done
so.

2)      Account for all members of staff.

3)      Take all staff to a secure part of the building, away from glass windows
or doors.

4)      Do not wander into large, open spaces.

5)      If possible, treat those with minor injuries.

6)      Wait  for instructions from the emergency services.

LOAD-DATE: August 21, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: 103


                       Copyright 2008 Sevenoaks Chronicle
                              All Rights Reserved

                              215 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring South Asia - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                            December 12, 2008 Friday

Indian parliament discusses Mumbai terror attack

LENGTH: 754 words


Text of report by Indian news agency PTI

New Delhi, 11 December: In one of the rare occasions, Parliament Thursday [11
December] spoke in one voice against the Mumbai terror attacks with the
Opposition giving full backing to any "hard decisions" the government would take
to end the menace as Pakistan was warned that it would not be "business as
usual" if it failed to act against elements spreading terror.

External Affairs Minister Pranab Mukherjee ruled out war as an option against
Pakistan but said "there would be a situation that we do not want" if the
neighbour failed to act against elements on its soil spreading terror against
India.

The unity of political parties against recent terror strikes was evident from
the start of the day when both the Houses suspended question hour and took up
discussion on the issue after government made a statement on the Mumbai attacks.

"The home minister has talked of taking hard decisions. Whatever steps you take
which would help win the war on terror, my party and the National Democratic
Alliance (NDA) will support them," Leader of the Opposition and Bharatiya Janata
Party (BJP) stalwart L. K. Advani said initiating the debate on the terror
strikes.

The debate was generally orderly without recrimination from both the sides that
is usually witnessed on other occasions.

In a speech that was significantly devoid of any serious attack on the
government, he declared that his party was with the government in the "war on
terror". But he cautioned against the Congress party underestimating the recent
electoral verdict by concluding that BJP's defeat in Rajasthan and Delhi was not
against terrorism.

Both the Houses took up for discussion a statement made by Home Minister P.
Chidambaram in which he admitted that there were "gaps" in the intelligence set
up.

Chidambaram, who was shifted to Home in the aftermath of Mumbai attacks, said
the government would take a number of steps including strengthening laws and
setting up a National Investigation Agency (NIA) to insulate the country from
terror strikes like in Mumbai.

He said the government proposes to bring a set of Bills "to strengthen the legal
provisions relating to the prevention, investigation, prosecution and punishment
of terror acts".

Chidambaram said the "finger of suspicion" for the terror attacks "unmistakably
points to the territory of our neighbour, Pakistan".

Picking up from where the home minister left, External Affairs Minister Pranab
Mukherjee gave a strong warning to Pakistan that if it Islamabad that if it
failed to act against elements responsible for spreading terror against the
country, "there would be situation that we do not want".

"I expect them to act. Otherwise it will not be business as usual. There would
be situation which we do not want," he said in his intervention in the debate in
Rajya Sabha.

He held "elements in Pakistan" responsible for the terror attacks. However, to a
demand from one of the members, he said "I am making it quite clear this (war)
is no solution".

Ridiculing Pakistani statements that non-state actors could be behind the terror
attacks in India, Mukherjee asked "are these non state actors from heaven. Are
they coming from another planet? They are located in the territory of a
particular country."

He wanted Islamabad to take "serious" action to completely dismantle terror
infrastructure and end infiltration.

Mukherjee also slammed Pakistan for creating a war "hysteria" by indulging in
"propaganda" on the basis of a hoax call that "big power" India was going to
attack.

The External Affairs Minister raised questions over Pakistan's sincerity in
curbing the activities of terror groups operating from its soil as he suggested
that "house arrest" of Lashkar-i-Toiba chief Hafiz Mohammad Sayeed was not
enough.

The minister said India has repeatedly given Pakistan a list of 40 terrorists,
including Dawood Ibrahim, with a demand that they be handed over and expressed
hope that Islamabad would respond positively.

In his speech, Advani said the ISI [Inter Services Intelligence] was also a
"non-state actor" as it was "not under the control of the elected government in
Pakistan and is answerable only to the Pakistan Army".

He noted that the "epicentre" of terrorism against India was in Pakistan.

Advani described the current action against some of the terror outfits in
Pakistan as a "drama" and "show" and asked the Indian government not not to be
"fooled" by such acts.

Source: PTI news agency, New Delhi, in English 1524gmt 11 Dec 08

LOAD-DATE: December 12, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2008 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              216 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                          The Daily Telegraph (London)

                            December 12, 2008 Friday

Zaheer no longer the poor man's Wasim;
Indian pace bowler has remained focused in the wake of terrorist attacks to
wreak his own havoc

BYLINE: Simon Hughes In Madras

SECTION: SPORT; Cricket; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 545  words


AMID all the will they, won't they uncertainty of England's passage back to
India, the effect on the Indian players themselves has been largely forgotten.
Mahendra Singh Dhoni admitted he had hardly slept for four days after the
attacks in Mumbai, and Sachin Tendulkar offered his heartfelt sympathy to the
victims. In the aftermath, the rest of the Indian team returned to their homes
for a few days and mostly kept their counsel.

Zaheer Khan may have felt more apprehensive than most about the resumption of
the series. As the only Muslim in the team, and a Mumbaikar to boot, he would
have feared an anti-Muslim backlash and represented a prime target.

He didn't allow it to blur his focus leading into this Test, and he didn't make
any public pronouncements. Yesterday he made the ball talk instead. It was his
post-tea spell that buckled England's secure foundations and left the whole
edifice looking decidedly shaky.

Zaheer's idol is Wasim Akram, and his bustling run-up and aggressive method
often led him to be a called a poor man's Wasim. Not any more. He may not have
Wasim's manic delivery or alarming pace, but he makes up for that with clever
disguise and excellent nous. The nervy, erratic bowler who buckled under the
pressure of the 2003 World Cup final is gone for good.

Unhelpful conditions and resilient England openers tested his skills to the full
yesterday, and he was sparsely used in the first two sessions. Even then he was
the

only bowler who had come close

to taking a wicket, seeing two miscued pulls from well-directed bumpers fall
agonisingly short of the fielders.

But in a country where everything from food to accurate information takes longer
to arrive, the Indians are masters at biding their time. The bowlers play a
waiting game, surveying the prey from a distance. The fielders stroll about
languidly like resting vultures. When their opportunity comes, they pounce.

England were 164 for one at tea, with Strauss and Bell in residence. Zaheer
produced three waspish maiden overs straight afterwards, in one of which he
found a hint of reverse swing to trap Bell lbw. Kevin Pietersen, his application
corrupted by a battle of machismo with Yuvraj Singh, was surprised by Zaheer's
skiddy bouncer and ballooned a simple catch. With Collingwood's tame, though
unlucky dismissal, and the end of Strauss' valiant innings, the turnaround was
complete.

Zaheer had been the catalyst and, with the retirement of Anil Kumble, India's
suffocating blanket, the onus will be on him more often.

A relatively late developer, having been forced in his early twenties to move
state from Mumbai to Baroda to earn first-class recognition, Zaheer is ready. He
is very much the heartbeat of the Indian bowling now and, judging from the way
he advises others, its mind as well.

Strauss' innings was a triumph of mind over matter. With no serious cricket
since late August, he was jumping in at the deep end. It was early afternoon
before he was able to unleash his favourite cut, and after a couple of initial
alarms, he kept his pull well and truly sheathed.

Instead he paddled and poked around in the shallows. He was like a big game
fisherman who was having to make do with minnows. But snaring a century in this
tricky current is a 4lb salmon in anyone's book.

LOAD-DATE: December 12, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2008 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              217 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                            Daily Post (North Wales)

                            December 12, 2008 Friday
                                 Mersey Edition

Police raids foil threat of EU terror attack;
One suspect had said goodbye to family

BYLINE: JOE CHURCHER Daily Post Correspondent

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 403 words


BELGIAN police swooped on al-Qaida terrorist suspects in Brussels last night -
just as EU leaders arrived for a 27-nation summit.

Last night, 14 suspects were in custody, including one man police believe was
planning a suicide attack.

There was no hard evidence the summit was the target, but with Brussels hosting
the summit, officers monitoring the suspects had to act.

About 250 police conducted 16 coordinated raids in Brussels and one in Liege.

"We don't know where the suicide attack was to take place," said a spokesman.
"It could have been an operation in Pakistan or Afghanistan, but we couldn't
totally exclude the possibility that Belgium or Europe was the intended target."

A Belgian government statement said there had been a real terror risk: "It is
more than likely an attack in Brussels has been prevented."

Only days ago, police had intercepted calls making clear one suspect had been
given the go-ahead to carry out an operation from which he was "not expected to
come back" and had said goodbye to his family, "because he wanted to enter
paradise with a clear conscience".

Police have linked the raids to similar ones in Belgium a year ago, after which
suspects were released without charge within days.

EU leaders were informed of the police raids, but summit security - already
routinely high - was unaffected as the meeting tackled climate change, the
economic crisis, and the stalled Lisbon treaty.

Last night, leaders were settling in for late-night talks in a bid to agree
climate change targets - a 20% cut in CO2 emissions by 2020. They want to send a
signal on Europe's commitment to targets before United Nations climate change
talks end in Poznan tonight.

And hopes remained high of approving the terms of a European economic recovery
package - despite deep divisions over joint stimulus measures which could cost
each member state up to 1.2% of GDP.

Earlier, Prime Minister Gordon Brown dismissed German criticism of his UK
economic rescue plan as a matter of "internal German politics".

The third summit issue - kick starting the Lisbon Treaty after Ireland's
referendum rejection last June - resulted in a draft deal promising
legally-binding reassurances for Dublin of no EU interference in neutrality,
tax, and abortion polices, if the Government can get the Treaty ratified by the
end of 2009.

LDP Mobile

For News, Sport and Business on your phone

Text LDP to 67800

LOAD-DATE: December 12, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:  Gordon Brown

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2008 Trinity Mirror plc
                              All Rights Reserved

                              218 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                                The Western Mail

                            December 12, 2008 Friday
                                 First Edition

world news bulletin: Charity is 'front for terrorist attackers'

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 105 words


PAKISTAN has come under pressure to clamp down on an Islamic charity after the
UN declared it a front for the group blamed for the Mumbai terrorist attacks.

A Security Council panel declared Jamaat-ud-Dawa a terrorist group linked to
Lashkar-e-Taiba and subject to UN sanctions including an asset freeze, travel
ban and arms embargo.

But the charity's hard-line Islamist chief has denied that it was involved in
terrorism and denounced the UN's move as an attack on religious groups.

A crackdown on Jamaat-ud-Dawa would underpin the promise by Pakistan to pursue
those responsible for the Mumbai attacks, which left 171 dead.

LOAD-DATE: December 13, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                    Copyright 2008 Western Mail and Echo Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                              219 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring South Asia - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                           December 13, 2008 Saturday

Indian democracy "hurt" by Mumbai terror attacks - PM

LENGTH: 344 words


Excerpt of unattributed report headlined "Terror attacks have hurt Indian
democracy: PM" published by private Indian television news channel Zee News
website on 13 December

New Delhi, 13 December: Prime Minister Manmohan Singh on Saturday said that the
Indian democracy was hurt by the recent terror attacks across the country,
especially the deadly siege in Mumbai.

Speaking at the inaugural ceremony of the two-day International Conference of
Jurists on Terrorism, the Role of Law and Human Rights, Dr Singh said that when
terrorists strike in cities like Delhi and Mumbai, "our economy is hurt, people
are hurt, and India is hurt."

Noting that the terrorists seek to target a particular community in their bid to
cause disharmony, the PM cautioned that no specific group should be targeted in
the fight against terror. He added that there was a sustained effort to spread
communal disharmony in the country, seeking to destroy overall well-being.

On the anniversary of 2001 Parliament attack, Dr Singh described terrorism as a
"challenge to human spirit" and said the governments needed to be resolute to
root out the menace. All democratic forces around the world have to come
together to defeat terror, he said.

"Governments (across the world) have promised to fight terror quickly and in a
united manner," the PM added.

Addressing the conference, the Prime Minister said that it was important to
understand the relationship between human rights and the fight against terror.
Fighting terror in fact defends human rights, he noted.

Stressing on the need for a cautious response to terror, the PM said that the
forces of terror are inspired by ideology of hatred.

Lauding the countrymen for the immense courage shown by them in the wake of
deadly terror attacks across India recently, Dr Singh noted that "each one of us
has a responsibility to discharge".

"I urge each one of us... to follow the ideals that define our nation to ensure
proper functioning of our democratic institutions," he said.

[passage omitted]

Source: Zee News TV website, New Delhi, in English 13 Dec 08

LOAD-DATE: December 13, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2008 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              220 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring South Asia - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                            December 14, 2008 Sunday

Indian government to introduce law to deal with terror attacks

LENGTH: 214 words


Excerpt from report by legal correspondent headlined "Bhardwaj: New anti-terror
law coming" published by Indian newspaper The Hindu website on 14 December

New Delhi: The Centre [federal government] will soon come out with a new
comprehensive law to specifically deal with terrorist attacks, Law Minister H.R.
Bhardwaj said here on Saturday [13 December]. He was addressing an international
conference on terrorism.

Later talking to reporters, Mr. Bhardwaj said "I [Law Ministry] have sent a
proposal to the Home Ministry. Once it is approved, we will discuss the contents
of the law and then place it before the Union [federal] Cabinet."

Asked whether a Bill would be introduced in the current session of Parliament,
he said: "We will draft the legislation after it is cleared by the Cabinet. We
will try to balance right to life and liberty under Article 21 of the
Constitution with reasonable restrictions."

Earlier speaking at the conference, he said the time had come to bring in really
effective legislation to combat terrorism, following the Mumbai attacks. "We
would arm ourselves with laws specifically aimed at terrorist and disruptive
elements. The government would very soon declare the contents of the law."
[Passage omitted]

Source: The Hindu website, Chennai, in English 14 Dec 08

LOAD-DATE: December 14, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2008 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              221 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                          The Guardian - Final Edition

                            December 15, 2008 Monday

G2: Sarfraz Manzoor: The Mumbai terror attacks prove the partitioning of India
and Pakistan was a tragic mistake

BYLINE: Sarfraz Manzoor

SECTION: GUARDIAN FEATURES PAGES; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 1042 words


I had not been to Bombay before this year, and, aside from two weeks in Goa a
decade ago, had never set foot on Indian soil. That in itself is not surprising;
for Pakistanis, India exerts a compelling but complex fascination. It is the
enemy in cricket, in two wars and in the long rumbling dispute over the
contested territory of Kashmir - and yet it is also the ancestral homeland with
a shared language and history. My fascination with India was not because it
offered a tantalising taste of the exotic other - the appeal to those westerners
who come to find themselves - but because it was so close to Pakistan, the land
of my parents, the country where I was born.

Earlier this year I was invited by the Kitab book festival to visit Bombay (the
original name for Mumbai and the one most locals use). I arrived on a searing
February afternoon and took a taxi to my hotel, the Taj, in Colaba on the
southern tip of the city. From my window I could see the Gateway to India, the
giant stone arch through which the last British troops to leave India passed 60
years ago. Born in Lahore, I was slightly nervous about being in India; I had a
faint suspicion that my Pakistani heritage would be instantly identifiable to
every passerby. The truth was, of course, that I blended in as well as any other
person who did not truly belong; I spoke Urdu to the street vendors and they
replied in Hindi, which is practically the same; I ordered saag aloo, which my
mother makes for me at home; and everywhere I inhaled the city's wild, chaotic
energy. And as I sat in the back of a speeding rickshaw and soaked up the sight
of Hindus and Muslims and Sikhs living in the city, I kept wishing I could take
my mother to Bombay.

Like my late father, my mother was born Indian in what 14 years later became
Pakistan under the 1947 partition. I wondered how she would feel about being in
India and whether it would feel like home. She left Pakistan in 1974, bringing
me and my siblings to join my father, who had come to Britain 11 years earlier.
For second-generation British Pakistanis, home is a complicated question. I see
my generation as the casualties of a double fracture: ripped out of India and
then torn from Pakistan. The enmity that is meant to lurk inside every Pakistani
towards India has therefore always seemed ridiculous to me; it is like being
asked to hate one's own past. It seems natural that my best friend of the past
20 years is a British Indian Sikh: what is different is so much less important
than what is shared.

Last month I returned to India for a six-week trip. I was back in Bombay,
working on a Radio 4 documentary. My producer and I had a free Saturday morning,
and I showed him the Taj. It was Saturday 22 November. As we walked through the
metal detectors I remember thinking they were not in position on my previous
visit. We sat briefly by the pool before returning to the heat and noise,
wandering past the Leopold cafe, where I had eaten stuffed parathas nine months
earlier. The next morning I flew to Bangalore and at the airport I picked up a
newspaper. The front-page headline was a quote from the Pakistani president,
Asif Ali Zardari, talking of the links between India and Pakistan. Quoting his
late wife, Benazir Bhutto, the president said, "There is a little bit of India
in every Pakistani." The words appeared to usher in a new era of Indo-Pakistani
relations, in which the tensions, suspicions and hostility of the past were
finally put to rest.

You know what happened next. Within hours, it was reported that Pakistan, or
Pakistanis, were implicated in the Bombay attacks; Zardari's remarks already
felt overtaken by appalling events. Muslims in Bombay, fearful that the attacks
would incite hatred against them, were quick to show their solidarity with the
rest of the country. The city's largest Muslim graveyard refused to bury the
nine slain gunmen who carried out the attacks and last week's Eid celebrations
were appropriately muted, with some of Bollywood's leading Muslim stars wearing
black armbands to express their sadness. Meanwhile, polling across India
revealed an unambigious suspicion that Pakistan was behind the attacks, with
more than two thirds of Indians wanting to sever all ties with its troublesome
neighbour.

The attacks were inevitably dubbed "India's 9/11" and there has been talk of a
"war on terror" against Lashkar-e-Taiba, the Lahore-based outfit thought to have
carried out the killings. But this second war on terror seems as ill-conceived
as the first. The danger is that it distracts from the truth of how much the two
countries share. I am convinced that the attacks, like those in Delhi and
Islamabad, are further evidence that the partitioning of India and Pakistan has
proved a tragic mistake. It was prompted for laudable reasons - to protect
Muslims from Hindu dominance - but it caused the death of millions in the
greatest migration in human history, and 60 years on what has it achieved? Two
nations - three including Bangladesh, which gained independence in 1971 - whose
leaders have shed blood and spent billions fighting each other while their
people have starved and suffered. But in loving India I do not hate Pakistan. I
find myself agreeing with the Delhi street vendor who, when I told him I was
originally from Pakistan, said with a wave of a hand, "India, Pakistan, it is
all one." Pakistan is like a severed leg, hacked from the body and expected to
run on its own.

The Mexican author Carlos Fuentes described the border between the US and Mexico
as "an enormous bloody wound, a sick body, mute in the face of its ills, on the
point of shouting, torn by its loyalties, and beaten, finally, by political
callousness, demagoguery and corruption". The words strike me as sadly all-too
appropriate to the India/Pakistan border, another bloody wound that can only
begin healing when we acknowledge the personal and political tragedy of
partition.

Charlie Brooker is away

This week Sarfraz roamed the forts and palaces of Rajasthan by day and watched
the entire series of Our

Friends in the North on DVD in the evenings. He read The Black Album by Hanif
Kureishi: "I missed it when

it came out, but the themes of race, religion and rock'n'roll remain
compellingly prescient."

LOAD-DATE: December 15, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2008 Guardian Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              222 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                    BBC Monitoring Asia Pacific - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                           December 16, 2008 Tuesday

Indonesian military alert to possible terror attacks ahead of 2009 elections

LENGTH: 362 words


Text of report in English by influential Indonesian newspaper The Jakarta Post
English-language website on 15 December

[Unattributed article: 'Military Anticipate Threats']

The Indonesian military is on alert for possible terror attacks and other
security threats ahead of next year's elections according to the Commander of
the Indonesian Armed Forces (TNI) General Djoko Santoso who also said that
Indonesia should learn from the terrorist attacks in Mumbai, India, last month.

"Security forces must be ready to react promptly to such terrorist attacks
should they happen here," he said.

In anticipation of such an event, Santoso said that a six-day training programme
would be held for security personnel beginning on 19 December and concluding on
24 December 2008. He said that hundreds of soldiers would take part in the
training, including members of Army, Navy, Air Force and Police Special Forces
units and regional military garrisons in Java and Bali.

[Editorial note: According to an Antara article released on 15 December 2008,
the Special Forces units participating in the joint training exercise will
include personnel from Kopassus' Unit-81 Anti-terror, the Marine Corps'
Jalamangkara Detachment and the Air Force Special Troops Corps' Bravo
Detachment.]

Santoso said security agencies would also improve their cooperation in the early
detection and prevention of terrorist attacks and communal conflicts.

"We will not take any threat lightly. We will continue to improve our
intelligence," Santoso said.

Meanwhile, Santoso said the military would help the General Elections Commission
(KPU) deliver ballot papers and other materials to regions across the country.
But he said that the military would only provide assistance at the KPU's
request, which must also be approved by local governments. By law, the military
is banned from engaging in any political activity however Santoso said it would
assist with logistics because the KPU lacked adequate transportation.

"We will only help the commission in emergency situations, to avoid creating any
suspicions over our political neutrality," Santoso said.

Source: The Jakarta Post website, Jakarta, in English 15 Dec 08

LOAD-DATE: December 16, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2008 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              223 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                 BBC Monitoring Former Soviet Union - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                           December 16, 2008 Tuesday

Man accused of central Russia attack linked to North Caucasus "terrorist" group

LENGTH: 250 words


Excerpt from report by corporate-owned Russian news agency Interfax

Saratov, 16 December: A resident of Kabarda-Balkaria accused of being behind an
explosion outside an apartment block in Saratov in the early hours of 25
September this year is a member of one of the terrorist and extremist
organizations operating in the Republic of Kabarda-Balkaria.

"We have established that the improvised explosive device was made by the
arrested man himself, using his knowledge of chemistry. We have also received
information that he is a member of one of the terrorist and extremist
organizations operating in Kabarda-Balkaria," the head of the FSB [Federal
security Service] directorate for Saratov Region, Maj-Gen Valeriy Beklenishchev,
said at a news conference on Tuesday [16 December].

"Furthermore, information has been received about his involvement in making
explosive devices and in contract murders with the use of weapons,"
Beklenishchev added.

He stressed that the motive for the attack was "personal enmity between the
accused and the people who were injured".

"The injured are members of a criminal gang. They had tried to extort money from
him (the accused) outside our region. He tracked them down, planted a remotely
operated explosive device along their route and detonated it," Beklenishchev
said. [Passage omitted]

The suspect was arrested by FSB officials in Nalchik on 24 October and
transferred to Saratov. [Passage omitted]

Source: Interfax news agency, Moscow, in Russian 1441 gmt 16 Dec 08

LOAD-DATE: December 17, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2008 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              224 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring South Asia - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                           December 16, 2008 Tuesday

Iran analyst questions reported role of "Muslim group" in India terror attacks

LENGTH: 568 words


Text of commentary by Abbas Arbab, entitled "[Condoleezza] Rice completes the
Mumbai project" published by Iranian newspaper Resalat website on 14 December

After America had used the 11th September scenario to prepare the necessary
grounds for attacking Afghanistan and Iraq, with the aim of combating terrorism
and in line with its strategic goals in the Middle East, a chain of explosions
took place with goals similar to those of September 11th. Amongst these one can
name the train bombings in Madrid, Spain; the bombings in Sharm al-Sheikh, Egypt
and in Bali, Indonesia; and the bombing of the London underground [railway].

The salient characteristics of these bombing are:

1. The killing of a large number of innocent people in public places using
modern terrorist methods which are more suited to the stature of the hellish
espionage organisations.

2. Immediately announcing, before any investigation had taken place that those
responsible for the bombings were connected to Muslim terrorist groups and
occasionally to Al-Qa'idah.

3. Ambiguity and not arresting those responsible for the explosions then
justifying this by saying it was a suicide mission or that all the terrorists
had been killed.

In the September 11th bombings in America, before any investigation had taken
place, Bush immediately announced it was a crusade, and said Al-Qa'idah was
responsible for the bombings. So far, nothing has been published, which could
clearly state who the agents behind the bombings are, nor have the names of
those who were on the planes that crashed into the twin towers been published.
In the Madrid train bombings, 191 people were killed and 1800 injured, but only
one person has been found guilty. In the London Metro, where 52 people were
killed, it was said the terrorist elements involved were suicidal. And finally,
in the bombings in Mumbai in India, in which 195 innocent people were killed,
apparently all the terrorist elements apart from one were killed. That one
person has blamed pseudo-Muslim groups in Pakistan, and not one of the Western,
blond-haired attackers, about whom eye-witnesses spoke in interviews with the
BBC, have survived. "Someone else who did not survive was an armed person who
was one of the CIA's operatives in the region and who has been involved in many
terrorist incidents in the countries of the Indian subcontinent, and whose
picture the Indian media published at the time of the confrontations in Mumbai.
So he cannot testify to the involvement of America's CIA. However, some more
pieces of the Mumbai project puzzle were provided by US Secretary of State
[Condoleezza] Rice to complete the picture. At her news conference in India, at
a time when the Mumbai investigations had not yet been completed, she said:
"Asif Ali Zardari has a duty to investigate and identify those responsible for
the Mumbai attacks."

We see that the bombings occurred at a time when Washington has signed a nuclear
agreement with Delhi, and, on the other hand, America's relations with Islamabad
have encountered problems. In order to justify the battle against terrorism in
Afghanistan, Iraq and Pakistan, America urgently needs the support of
international public opinion. Therefore it seems the belligerent policies of the
White House are continuing, and it appears unlikely that Obama can bring about a
change to these policies.

Source: Resalat website, Tehran, in Persian 14 Dec 08

LOAD-DATE: December 16, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2008 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              225 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                                Birmingham Post

                           December 16, 2008 Tuesday
                                  1ST Edition

Cricket: Hero Sachin dedicates ton to victims of terror attacks;
In association with www.flybe.com

SECTION: SPORT; Pg. 44

LENGTH: 441 words


Sachin Tendulkar turned his thoughts immediately to the victims of the Mumbai
terrorist attacks, after completing an emotional century to secure victory for
India in the opening Test against England yesterday.

Nearly three weeks after India was rocked by the attacks on several of Mumbai's
leading landmarks, which killed 181 people, Tendulkar lifted the mood of the
nation with one of the most timely and most telling hundreds of his illustrious
career.

The 35-year-oldmaster batsman hit an outstanding 103 not out to guide India to
their target of 387 with just over an hour of play remaining, having
masterminded the fourth-highest successful run chase in Test history and the
biggest ever fourth-innings total at the Chepauk Stadium.

His five-hour stay at the crease, sharing in a match-winning 163-run partnership
with Yuvraj Singh, would have been exceptional at any time but in the aftermath
of the events in Mumbai, it was greeted with even more fervour than normal by
the 30,000 crowd.

"By no means am I saying this will make everyone forget what happened in
Mumbai," he said.

"But I'd like to thank England for coming back and playing Test cricket, and
we've witnessed a wonderful Test match - people are enjoying cricket the way
it's meant to be.

"What happened in Mumbai was extremely unfortunate, and I don't think by India
winning or me scoring a hundred people who have lost their loved ones will feel
any better.

"It's a terrible loss for all of them, and our hearts are with them. But
whatever manner we can contribute to making them feel better, we'll make that
effort."

Tendulkar, Mumbai's most celebrated resident, knew two of the victims of the
attacks, who were teachers at his daughter Sara's school, and his restaurant is
situated just at the back of the Taj Palace Hotel, where the main attack was
concentrated.

Those close links were evident after Tendulkar won the match by sweeping
off-spinner Graeme Swann for four to reach his century, celebrating by jumping
into the arms of Yuvraj.

Asked whether it was one of his most emotional moments on a cricket field,
Tendulkar replied: "Yes, I would say so. It was quite emotional.

"From my point of view, I look at it as an attack on India - not just on Mumbai.
It is an attack on India and it should hurt every Indian.

"It's not only for the people of Mumbai - it's for all of us. I'd like to
dedicate this hundred to all the people who have gone through such terrible
times."

Tendulkar has no doubt about the personal significance of yesterday's innings.

"I'd rate this hundred as one of the best I've scored, and victory makes it even
more special," he said.

LOAD-DATE: December 16, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


               Copyright 2008 Midland Independent Newspapers plc
                              All Rights Reserved

                              226 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                            Business Monitor Online

                           December 16, 2008 Tuesday

Terror Attacks Delay Patent Bill

LENGTH: 116 words



News: According to  SciDev Net, the Mumbai terrorist attacks have delayed plans
to present a patent bill to India's parliament. The bill is expected to help
publicly funded researchers commercialise their research. Scientists in publicly
funded organisations would be able to keep 30% of the net profit from patented
work, if the bill is passed.

BMI View: The bill is expected to boost the Indian patented drug market.
Patented medicines will remain the leading profit-making sector of the overall
market having posted revenue of more than US$3bn in 2007.  BMI expects patented
drug market in the country to reach a value of US$3.27bn in 2008, and increase
by 37.3% to a value of US$4.49bn in 2012.

LOAD-DATE: September 1, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Industry News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newsletter

JOURNAL-CODE: OEMO


               Copyright 2008 Business Monitor International Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              227 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                            Evening Times (Glasgow)

                           December 16, 2008 Tuesday
                                 Final Edition

DR TERROR;
Medic guilty of attack on airport

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 8 words


LIFESAVER AND TERRORIST  P4-5

DAY OF HORROR  P6-7

LOAD-DATE: December 18, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: ET


                      Copyright 2008 Newsquest Media Group
                              All Rights Reserved

                              228 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                               Grimsby Telegraph

                           December 16, 2008 Tuesday

Sachin: Ton was for blast victims;
Sachin Tendulkar dedicated his brilliant century to the victims of the Mumbai
terrorist attacks after inspiring India to a stunning six-wickets victory in the
opening Test against England.

SECTION: Pg. 36

LENGTH: 283 words


The 35-year-old master batsman finished unbeaten on 103, the 41st century of his
illustrious Test career, to help India reach their target of 387 for four with
20.3 overs of the final day remaining.

His five hours of defiance, forging an unbroken 163-run stand with Yuvraj Singh,
helped complete the fourth-highest successful run chase in Test history and the
biggest fourth innings score ever at the Chepauk Stadium.

It was also a fitting finale to the first Test since the terrorist attacks on
India's biggest city, which began two days short of three weeks ago and killed
181 people.

Asked whether this mattered more than any of his other hundreds, Tendulkar
replied: "Yes, especially after what happened in Mumbai.

"By no means am I saying this will make everyone forget what happened in Mumbai
but I'd like to thank England for coming back and playing Test cricket and we've
witnessed a wonderful Test match -  people are enjoying cricket the way it's
meant to be."

England captain Kevin Pietersen admitted his side were desperately disappointed
by the defeat -  particularly after they controlled most of the match -  but
revealed he was proud of their performance.

"The boys were not happy but I think both teams can be really proud with the way
they have played Test match cricket over the five days," he said.

"The tragedy in Mumbai obviously was not in the script and for both teams to
play Test cricket and to put on a performance like they have done I think they
can be really proud of themselves."

Pietersen said he played in the Test with a fractured rib sustained during the
one-day series, but insisted his side's lack of preparation for the series would
not be used as an excuse for the defeat.

LOAD-DATE: December 17, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: 85


                    Copyright 2008 Grimsby Evening Telegraph
                              All Rights Reserved

                              229 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                               Grimsby Telegraph

                           December 16, 2008 Tuesday

Sachin: Ton was for blast victims;
Sachin Tendulkar dedicated his brilliant century to the victims of the Mumbai
terrorist attacks after inspiring India to a stunning six-wickets victory in the
opening Test against England.

SECTION: Pg. 36

LENGTH: 283  words


The 35-year-old master batsman finished unbeaten on 103, the 41st century of his
illustrious Test career, to help India reach their target of 387 for four with
20.3 overs of the final day remaining.

His five hours of defiance, forging an unbroken 163-run stand with Yuvraj Singh,
helped complete the fourth-highest successful run chase in Test history and the
biggest fourth innings score ever at the Chepauk Stadium.

It was also a fitting finale to the first Test since the terrorist attacks on
India's biggest city, which began two days short of three weeks ago and killed
181 people.

Asked whether this mattered more than any of his other hundreds, Tendulkar
replied: "Yes, especially after what happened in Mumbai.

"By no means am I saying this will make everyone forget what happened in Mumbai
but I'd like to thank England for coming back and playing Test cricket and we've
witnessed a wonderful Test match -  people are enjoying cricket the way it's
meant to be."

England captain Kevin Pietersen admitted his side were desperately disappointed
by the defeat -  particularly after they controlled most of the match -  but
revealed he was proud of their performance.

"The boys were not happy but I think both teams can be really proud with the way
they have played Test match cricket over the five days," he said.

"The tragedy in Mumbai obviously was not in the script and for both teams to
play Test cricket and to put on a performance like they have done I think they
can be really proud of themselves."

Pietersen said he played in the Test with a fractured rib sustained during the
one-day series, but insisted his side's lack of preparation for the series would
not be used as an excuse for the defeat.

LOAD-DATE: June 11, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: 85


                    Copyright 2008 Grimsby Evening Telegraph
                              All Rights Reserved

                              230 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                               Grimsby Telegraph

                           December 16, 2008 Tuesday

Sachin: Ton was for blast victims;
Sachin Tendulkar dedicated his brilliant century to the victims of the Mumbai
terrorist attacks after inspiring India to a stunning six-wickets victory in the
opening Test against England.

SECTION: Pg. 36

LENGTH: 283 words


The 35-year-old master batsman finished unbeaten on 103, the 41st century of his
illustrious Test career, to help India reach their target of 387 for four with
20.3 overs of the final day remaining.

His five hours of defiance, forging an unbroken 163-run stand with Yuvraj Singh,
helped complete the fourth-highest successful run chase in Test history and the
biggest fourth innings score ever at the Chepauk Stadium.

It was also a fitting finale to the first Test since the terrorist attacks on
India's biggest city, which began two days short of three weeks ago and killed
181 people.

Asked whether this mattered more than any of his other hundreds, Tendulkar
replied: "Yes, especially after what happened in Mumbai.

"By no means am I saying this will make everyone forget what happened in Mumbai
but I'd like to thank England for coming back and playing Test cricket and we've
witnessed a wonderful Test match -  people are enjoying cricket the way it's
meant to be."

England captain Kevin Pietersen admitted his side were desperately disappointed
by the defeat -  particularly after they controlled most of the match -  but
revealed he was proud of their performance.

"The boys were not happy but I think both teams can be really proud with the way
they have played Test match cricket over the five days," he said.

"The tragedy in Mumbai obviously was not in the script and for both teams to
play Test cricket and to put on a performance like they have done I think they
can be really proud of themselves."

Pietersen said he played in the Test with a fractured rib sustained during the
one-day series, but insisted his side's lack of preparation for the series would
not be used as an excuse for the defeat.

LOAD-DATE: August 21, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: 85


                    Copyright 2008 Grimsby Evening Telegraph
                              All Rights Reserved

                              231 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                             PA Newswire: Scotland

                     December 16, 2008 Tuesday 1:05 PM BST

SMEATON: I JUST SNAPPED DURING AIRPORT TERROR ATTACK

BYLINE: Sam Reeves, Press Association Scotland

SECTION: PA Newswire: Scotland

LENGTH: 906 words


One moment John Smeaton was casually smoking a cigarette outside Glasgow
Airport's terminal building - the next he found himself at the centre of a major
terrorist incident.

The 32-year-old was working as a baggage handler at the airport on June 30 last
year when a flaming Jeep was driven into the terminal.

Realising it was an attack, and filled with adrenaline, Smeaton weighed in and
directed a kick at one would-be bomber as the other rolled around on the ground
``head to toe in flames''.

An hour later, he found himself recounting his actions in a television
interview, where he made it clear terrorists were not welcome in Scotland's
biggest city - ``This is Glasgow'', he said. ``We'll set about you.''

His words were quickly broadcast round the globe and his laid back patter
endeared him to the world.

He has been feted from London to New York, and has met Prime Minister Gordon
Brown and Scottish First Minister Alex Salmond on several occasions.

As the trial got under way at Woolwich Crown Court, Smeaton was taken to
hospital after a near-fatal asthma attack.

He is now back home and on the road to recovery.

Today he recounted the life-changing moment when the terrorists launched their
attack on Glasgow Airport.

He said: ``I had just come out for my fag. I was actually smoking round the side
of the building.

``That's when I heard the commotion, all the noise, and then I just walked out
to see what was happening.

``I just remember people were all moving away, then they all started running
back towards the terminal.

``I walked along and I turned left and saw the Jeep crashed into the building.''

Smeaton watched as Abdulla, 29, an Iraqi junior doctor, got out of the vehicle
and started attacking the police.

``Next thing I know, I saw a guy coming out of the passenger side. All I
remember is he was throwing his jacket off,'' he said.

``Then he went to the rear of the vehicle. As he got to the rear, police
officers came across and the guy just started attacking a police officer.

``He was flinging punches, flinging hundreds of punches like a prize fighter.

``Before I knew it, I was just charging in - it was just pure adrenaline, I was
just thinking: 'Get the b******'.

``I didn't know at that time it was a terrorist attack. It was just the guy
attacking the police officer.''

Smeaton recalled how he then ran in and kicked Abdulla, dodging a punch by a
matter of inches.

``I just snapped, I just totally and utterly snapped.

``He flung a punch at me and I stuck my leg out to kick him.''

Describing Abdulla at that moment, Smeaton remembered: ``He was mental, the guy
was just going mental.

``It's hard to describe the man, he was just going nuts, flinging punches.

``All I remember him saying was 'Allah', he kept mentioning 'Allah'.''

When Smeaton heard this, he said ``everything clicked'' and he suddenly had a
strong suspicion of the mens' motivation for attacking the airport.

Smeaton went on: ``I turned round and I saw Kafeel lying on the ground burning.

``Kafeel was head to toe in flames.''

Kafeel Ahmed died of his injuries about a month after the attack.

It was at this point someone shouted that another of the have-a-go heroes
helping foil the attack was injured and needed help, Smeaton said.

The baggage handler then dragged Michael Kerr, who broke his leg as he tackled
the terrorists, away from the scene, and waited with him for help.

Despite his involvement in the incident, Smeaton was not called to give evidence
at the trial.

He sought to play down speculation about why he was not called, which has led
some to question his involvement in foiling the attack.

He said: ``There are people probably there who had seen a lot more than me that
day.''

He added: ``I didn't see the Jeep hit the building, I just came afterwards.''

The huge publicity the ex-baggage handler has attracted could also be a reason
he was not called, he believed.

``Maybe it's just the coverage that I have had, they wanted to give somebody
else the chance to go up and have their say,'' Mr Smeaton said.

``The police had my statement anyway. To be quite honest, I was quite glad I
didn't have to because I hate London.''

Mr Smeaton added the support he has received from politicians is further
evidence that he did play a role in thwarting the attack.

``If I hadn't done what I had done, there is no way I would get the support of
Alex Salmond and Gordon Brown,'' he said.

If he had not told the truth he would have ``been hung out to dry a long, long
time ago'', he added.

Mr Smeaton is now on the road to recovery after suffering a serious asthma
attack in October as the trial got under way.

He was taken to the Royal Alexandra Hospital in Paisley, Renfrewshire, after
collapsing at home.

After almost a month in hospital, including 18 days in intensive care, he is
back at the family home in Erskine.

He has lost about two stone and is weaker but believes he is on the mend.

``I'm getting there slowly but surely but it's going to take a long time to make
a full recovery,'' he said.

He does not believe the start of the trial triggered his sudden collapse.

``It's just one of those pure coincidences in life,'' he said.

``To be quite honest, I kind of forgot the trial was coming up.''

Mr Smeaton said he is now focused on getting better. In the New Year he hopes to
continue a course in fish farming, which he had to break off because of his
illness.

His wedding plans are also under way. He will marry fiancee Christy MacPhedran,
32, in July next year.

LOAD-DATE: December 16, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newswire


                  Copyright 2008 The Press Association Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              232 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                              Pharma Marketletter

                           December 16, 2008 Tuesday

Mumbai terror attacks hit pharma investment

LENGTH: 226 words


The recent terrorist attacks in Mumbai, India, have dented local confidence in
the prospects of inward investment for the pharmaceutical industry, according to
a report in the Business Standard. One immediate effect was the cancellation of
the CPhI India exhibition in the city, which had been due to open a couple of
days after the events of November 26. This had been an opportunity for local
contract drug companies to develop contacts with foreign clients. The same
venue, the Bombay Exhibition Center, was also to host P-MEC, an important
conference for Indian pharmaceutical manufacturing equipment firms.

The president of the Indian Merchants Chamber and managing director of the local
unit of Swiss drug major Novartis, Ranjit Shahani, told the Standard: "such
repeated terrorist attacks will mar out business interests, especially from
Fortune 500 companies." He added that, "apart from the global meltdown, this
will add more worries to our economic growth." A more hopeful assessment was
presented by the Associated Press with Takahira Ogawa, the director of sovereign
ratings at Standard and Poor's Singapore office, telling the news service: "this
is a challenge for the government to maintain law and order in the country. At
this stage, I don't think there will be any major impact on the macro-economic
or fiscal position of the government."

LOAD-DATE: December 16, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newsletter


                 Copyright 2008 Marketletter Publications Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              233 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                            Aberdeen Evening Express

                          December 17, 2008 Wednesday

Brave teen tells of terror after fighting off attacker

BYLINE: Alison Rennie

SECTION: NEWS; PEOPLE; Others; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 269 words


A TEENAGER who was attacked just yards from her home today relived her
terrifying ordeal.

Hannah Thompson spoke of her fear after a man grabbed her from behind.

The 18-year-old was attacked after she entered a tenement block in Aberdeen.

Hannah had been returning home after her work as a waitress.

She said: "I had just finished work and got the late bus home. After getting off
the bus on the Lang Stracht, I walked home.

"I got to the car park and it was really quiet. I didn't see anyone going about.

"I went through the front door into the flats and, with the wind, the door tends
to take ages to close.

"Then a man came into the flats and grabbed me from behind. He shoved me against
the wall and covered my mouth with his hand.

"He told me to be quiet.

"I managed to bite his finger and scream.

"I was really scared. None of my neighbours came out, so I ran up the stairs and
phoned my mum."

Since the attack on Friday night on Rousay Terrace, Hannah said she is still in
shock and doesn't feel safe walking on her own.

She said: "I am still in shock and I'm not sure what his intentions were.

"I don't feel safe going anywhere by myself, so have been walking with my
friends.

"I really hope the police catch him before he does this to anyone else.

"I wouldn't want anyone else to have to go through that.

"It's really important that people are more aware of the dangers of walking
anywhere alone."

The teenager said police took a swab from her mouth and removed her jacket to
help with their investigations.

Her mum Julie Thompson, 53, added: "She was absolutely terrified. I am glad she
is safe and well now."

arennie@ajl.co.uk

LOAD-DATE: December 17, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: EE


                      Copyright 2008 Aberdeen Journals Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                              234 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                       BBC Monitoring Europe - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                          December 17, 2008 Wednesday

Belgian prime terror suspect denies planning suicide attack

LENGTH: 530 words


Text of report by Belgian leading privately-owned newspaper De Standaard
website, on 17 December

[Report by Yves Barbieux, Mark Eeckhaut: "I Never Wanted To Blow Myself Up'"]

Brussels - "I was on my way to Afghanistan. But I never got there." That is what
Hicham Beyayo says.

Hicham Beyayo is appearing today, along with the other "Al-Qa'idah" suspects who
were arrested last week, at the pre-trial chamber. The charges against them are
no small thing: Membership of a terrorist organization that carried out suicide
attacks.

Beyayo is a central figure in the investigation. According to investigators he
went to Afghanistan to attend training at Taleban camps that would make him a
suicide terrorist.

On 4 December, on his return to Belgium, he apparently took leave of his
friends, a sign that investigators believe leaves no doubt: Hicham was ready to
blow himself up with an explosives belt at an unknown place.

"That is complete nonsense," was the reaction of 23-year-old Hicham, through his
lawyer Christophe Marchand. He lived until his arrest with his family in the
vicinity of the Lemmensplein in Anderlecht. He himself gives the following
explanation: "I never planned to blow myself up. In Turkey I left the group. It
is correct that I was under the influence of the arguments of Moez Garsalloui
(husband of Malika el-Aroud, also arrested in connection with the same case,
ed). The man had a certain charisma. He had a lot of influence in the
neighbourhood. I was resolved to fight with the Taleban in Afghanistan."

"But in Turkey I began to have second thoughts. I suddenly saw it all
differently. I decided to draw a line under it all. From that point the other
members of the group regarded me as a deserter."

"I left the group and then travelled around the country on my own. Until my
money ran out and then I saw no other alternative but to return home. But let
this be clear: I never planned to carry out a suicide attack."

The federal police had been watching Hicham closely over the past year. They
believe he had allowed himself to be convinced by Malika el-Aroud to become a
jihadi. Until recently Hicham was not known as a potential terrorist. According
to his lawyer he has no previous convictions, and nor has his 21-year-old
brother Ridouan, who a few weeks ago was arrested with another brother, Hakim
(31), in connection with arms dealing in connection with this terrorism case.

Hicham and Ridouan are known, however, for being involved in more petty crimes
involving theft and drugs. On 30 May 2006 Hakim was given a six-year sentence
for tiger kidnapping. Christophe Marchand says that the investigators have got
wrong. "I claim that the federal prosecutor has painted an erroneous portrait of
Hicham because some members of his family have been in trouble with the law. He
is simply lumped together with them. Hicham began studying law at Brussels
University, but no mention is made of that. He has since interrupted his
studies, but the fact that he has studied presents a totally different picture
of him than a member of a family that seems to have far from the best reputation
among the police."

Source: De Standaard website, Groot-Bijgaarden, in Dutch 17 Dec 08

LOAD-DATE: December 17, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2008 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              235 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                            Evening Times (Glasgow)

                          December 17, 2008 Wednesday
                                 Final Edition

Evil Abdulla gets life for city attacks;
32 YEARS FOR DR TERROR

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 29 words


GLASGOW Airport bomber Bilal Abdulla was today jailed for at least 32 years.

The Iraqi doctor was given two life terms for attacks on the airport and in
London.

FULL STORY - PAGE 4

LOAD-DATE: December 18, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: ET


                      Copyright 2008 Newsquest Media Group
                              All Rights Reserved

                              236 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                            Evening Times (Glasgow)

                          December 17, 2008 Wednesday
                                 Final Edition

Learn lesson of the airport terror attacks;
IN OUR OPINION

SECTION: FEATURES; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 115 words


BRITISH justice was at its best as the verdicts were delivered on the doctor at
the centre of the terror attack at Glasgow Airport.

Bilal Abdulla deserves to serve whatever sentence the courts deliver after being
found guilty of conspiracy to murder.

The lesson from the attack is that Scotland is not immune from terrorist threat.
And there is an ongoing price to pay in terms of increased security operations.

Everyone must bear that in mind the next time they are slightly delayed for
checks.

The other lesson is that we all share responsibility for security whether it's
by not leaving bags unattended or by acting as the magnificent heroes of that
day did when terror came to Glasgow.

LOAD-DATE: December 18, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: ET


                      Copyright 2008 Newsquest Media Group
                              All Rights Reserved

                              237 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                          The Guardian - Final Edition

                          December 17, 2008 Wednesday

National: Car bomb trial: The doctor, the engineer and a failed call that
averted disaster: Desperate after their plot to blow up a London nightclub ended
in failure, terrorist pair turned their attention to an attack on Glasgow
airport

BYLINE: Matthew Taylor

SECTION: GUARDIAN HOME PAGES; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 1575 words


In the early hours of the morning Bilal Abdulla, an Iraqi doctor who had been
working in Glasgow, sat in a hotel room in east London and took out his mobile
phone.

For the past 90 minutes the doctor had been frantically dialling four numbers he
had hoped would trigger the first in a wave of car bomb attacks designed to kill
hundreds of people and terrorise thousands more across Britain.

But something had gone wrong. The homemade bombs - left in two Mercedes cars
parked outside a busy nightclub in London's West End - had failed to go off.

Sitting in his hotel room on Friday 29 June, last year Abdulla knew he was now
locked in a deadly race with MI5 and the Metropolitan police. Could they catch
him and his fellow bomber, Kafeel Ahmed, before the they managed to launch a
second wave of attacks?

The emergence of the cell signalled a new and worrying development for the UK's
anti-terrorism officers. Both men were well respected professionals, one a
doctor one an engineer. "They were clearly intelligent, self motivated
individuals who were acting very much within the cell and only within the cell,"
said a senior police source.

Abdulla and Ahmed, an Indian engineering student, had driven from Glasgow to
London the day before. The two Mercedes cars they were travelling in had been
packed with more than 2,000 nails, petrol, gas canisters and homemade
detonators.

Just before 1.30am Abdulla was caught on CCTV parking his car outside the Tiger
Tiger nightclub in Haymarket. A few minutes earlier Ahmed had left his vehicle
in nearby Cockspur Street where senior prosecutors say it was positioned to kill
those fleeing the first explosion.

Inside the club more than 200 people were enjoying a corporate cocktail party.
Another 165 were attending an 18th birthday celebration. Hundreds more revellers
were enjoying an early start to the weekend. None of them were aware that just
yards away two well educated young men were attempting to launch the first in a
series of "spectacular" attacks designed to bring terror to the UK.

But the would-be bombers had made a crucial error. The detonators consisted of
two mobile phones wired to a light bulb surrounded by match heads. A phone call
was supposed to trigger the homemade device igniting the vapours swirling inside
the cars. But the mixture of petrol and gas was too thick - police sources say
that if the car windows had been opened the bombs could have gone off - but as
it was there was not enough oxygen to trigger the devices.

Once a safe distance away, Abdulla and Ahmed attempted to trigger the bombs,
repeatedly calling the two mobile phones they had left on the front seat of each
car.

Eventually the detonator in the Mercedes outside Tiger Tiger was partially
ignited and smoke began to fill the car. Abdulla and Ahmed, who were still at
the scene, realised the main car bombs had failed and left the area separately
on cycle rickshaws, meeting up just after 2am on nearby Edgware Road.

Their plans were now in tatters. The unexploded car bombs would soon be
discovered and the attackers knew they contained a wealth of forensic evidence
that would lead detectives straight to their door. After spending the night at
an east London hotel the pair left the capital the following morning and
travelled to Stoke where they met up with a third man, Mohammed Asha, near the
University Hospital of North Staffordshire where he worked as a doctor.

Asha, from Jordan, was accused by the prosecution of offering finance and advice
for the plot but was yesterday cleared by the jury of all involvement.The three
men had first met in 2004 and 2005 while studying in Cambridge. Over the next
few years Abdulla and Ahmed had becoming increasingly militant in their
opposition to the US led invasion of Iraq. And the court heard that by the
beginning of 2007 the pair had devised a plan to bring mass murder to the
streets of the UK.

The men had conducted a dry run in London visiting other possible targets
including the Old Bailey and the City and prosecutors say they were also
considering attacks on music festivals in Cambridge, Leeds and Manchester.

From Stoke the pair headed back to Glasgow and detectives believe that it was on
this journey, as police began an international manhunt, that they decided to
adopt a new - and desperate - tactic. It came to fruition 24 hours later when
Abdulla and Ahmed launched a suicide bomb attack at Glasgow airport. It was the
first day of the school holidays in Scotland and the airport's busiest day of
the year.

In the hours following the attacks in central London anti-terrorist officers had
made frantic efforts to track the men using information from mobile phones left
in the cars in central London.

According to police sources officers were just a "a road away" from the
semi-detached house in Houston, near Glasgow where they assembled the bombs when
Abdulla and Ahmed were loading up their Jeep Cherokee with gas cylinders, petrol
and nails early on Saturday morning ahead of the suicide attack on Glasgow
airport. But by the time police arrived at the house, the bombers had left for
Loch Lomond, one of Abdulla's favourite places in Britain.

They spent eight hours at the beauty spot praying and preparing themselves for
the suicide attack that was to take place later that day. Meanwhile, using
mobile phone signals police were able to work out the bombers' "direction of
travel" and were searching the other side of the Loch as the pair made their
final preparations.

"We. . . discovered a direction of travel (to Loch Lomond) then it was a massive
policing effort as to whether we could find those people out and about," said a
police source. Once again the pair evaded capture and at 3.15pm Abdulla and
Ahmed drove a green Jeep packed with gas and petrol into the entrance of Glasgow
terminal 30mph. The building was packed with families setting off on holiday and
CCTV footage shows people turning in horror as the jeep, by this time engulfed
in flames, gets stuck in the doors.

Again the car bomb failed to explode and Abdulla and Ahmed got out, throwing
down petrol bombs and shouting "Allahu Akbar" - God is great - before scuffling
with passers-by. Among those who tried to intervene was baggage handler John
Smeaton, who became a national hero.

One holidaymaker suffered a broken leg in the fighting before Abdulla was
eventually restrained. Ahmed, who had doused himself in petrol during the
attack, suffered severe burns. He died from his injuries a month later.

Yesterday the detective, who heads Scotland Yard's Counter Terrorism Command,
said investigators were shocked when they discovered key suspects were doctors
and an engineer.

"When you look at the profile of these individuals they are very different from
the terrorists we have dealt with in this country before - being professional
people," said deputy assistant commissioner John McDowall. "I personally find it
bizarre that people who have trained as doctors can seek to take life in such a
cruel way. There was nothing available to police in respect of these suspects -
they simply weren't on our radar.

Police say it was the men's increasing anger about the situation in Iraq that
was the driving force behind the attacks. Abdulla, the ring leader, told the
court he had been shocked by the brutality of Western forces in his homeland.
Friends who knew him in Cambridge said he became increasingly militant after one
of his closest friends at university in Iraq was killed by a militiaman.

In court, Abdulla admitted plotting to set fire to the two cars left in London
to give Britain a "taste of fear" and highlight what he said was devastating
impact of the ongoing war in Iraq. But he said the devices were never intended
to kill anyone rather create a "flaming demonstration." He said he did not know
Ahmed was planning a suicide attack when the pair drove the Jeep into the
terminal building at Glasgow Airport, claiming he thought he was being dropped
off.

Meanwhile Asha, who was accused of offering finance and advice for the plot was
arrested, along with his wife Marwa, just after 9pm on the M6 motorway near
Manchester hours after the bombers had driven the jeep into the airport
terminal. In court, the prosecution alleged that although he was not in London
or Glasgow when the attacks took place he had been contacted by Abdulla at every
stage in the planning of the attacks and had financed the plot with £1,300.
Marwa was freed without charge shortly after her arrest and yesterday a jury
cleared Asha of any involvement in the plot.

In the days that followed the attacks, as detectives began to piece the evidence
together, another four people were arrested. Ahmed's cousin Mohammed Haneef was
picked up at Brisbane airport in Australia as he attempted to board a plane
bound for India. Haneef, a senior house officer at the Gold Coast Hospital was
questioned by Australian authorities before being released without charge.

Ahmed's brother, Sabeel Ahmed was arrested at Liverpool train station. He was
charged with withholding information and sentenced to 18 months in prison. He
was deported to India earlier this year. Two other members of staff at the Royal
Alexandra hospital in Glasgow were arrested and released without charge.

Yesterday police said they had been set on committing murder on a devastating
scale. "I think we would have seen mass casualties, and with the other vehicles
as well, it's clear this was meant to be some form of campaign," said McDowall.

LOAD-DATE: December 17, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2008 Guardian Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              238 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                             Paisley Daily Express

                          December 17, 2008 Wednesday
                                  1ST Edition

Saluting those who saved so many lives;
TERROR ATTACK VERDICT ...

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 362 words


POLICE chiefs have insisted "many lives" could have been lost in the Glasgow
Airport terror attack.

And Campbell Corrigan, Assistant Chief Constable of Strathclyde Police, said the
guilty verdict against car bomber Bilal Abdulla is a good result for the UK.

He said: "It was clear from the outset Abdulla intended to cause death and
destruction as a result of his actions.

"Had it not been for the prompt actions of Strathclyde police officers, assisted
by members of the public, many lives could have been lost.

"The greatest achievement is the fact no innocent lives were lost and the
terrorists failed in their attempts to cause mayhem and mass murder at the
airport. Indeed, the airport staff should be commended for achieving 'business
as usual' within 24 hours of the incident.

"Throughout the incident, I can say wholeheartedly we had unstinting support
from all members of our communities. It was clear those responsible did not, in
any way, represent any community group in Scotland and I am delighted in the
manner in which residents stood united in their condemnation of the actions of
the terrorists.

"We have no way of knowing if Scotland will be a target for terrorists in the
future. However, I would like to reassure every person in the area that, as long
as we continue to work together, support each other and remain united, we are
better equipped to deal with any challenges that may come our way."

Chief Constable Stephen House said justice was done at Woolwich Crown Court
yesterday and his officers should be proud of how they tackled the attack.

He added: "I would ask all residents to remain vigilant and united in the fight
against terrorism and against those whose sole intention is to endanger lives
and divide our communities."

PC Stewart Ferguson, who was among the first on the scene of the airport attack,
praised his colleagues in the emergency services and the brave members of the
public who stepped up to the plate on June 30 last year.

He said: "I salute those members of the public and airport staff who came to the
assistance of Sergeant Torquil Campbell and myself during those first hectic
moments of the terrorist incident."

LOAD-DATE: December 17, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:  BRAVE RESPONSE: Sergeant Torquil Campbell (left) and Constable Stewart
Ferguson were among the first on the scene
 JUSTICE WAS DONE: Chief Constable Stephen House
 PRAISE: Assistant Chief Constable Campbell Corrigan

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                           Copyright 2008 MGN Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              239 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                             Paisley Daily Express

                          December 17, 2008 Wednesday
                                  1ST Edition

Bomber wanted to spread as much death and destruction as hecould... he is pure
evil  ;
TERROR ATTACK VERDICT ... FATHER TELLS OF HIS FAMILY'S HORROR AS THEY WITNESSED
ATTACK could... he is pure evil

BYLINE: LYNN JOLLY

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 485 words


AN off-duty policeman who was caught up in the terror attack last night welcomed
the guilty verdict against Abdulla - and described the bomber as "pure evil."

John Mullen, who was preparing to fly out on a family holiday with his wife
Lorna and their two young kids when the terrorists struck, told the Paisley
Daily Express: "They wanted to spread as much death and destruction as possible.

"If the car bomb had exploded the way the terrorists had intended, we'd still be
picking up the pieces.

"People would have been shredded to bits.

"I have no doubt the blast would have wiped out the airport's check-in area and
would have caused serious damage to the upstairs floor.

"Abdulla should be locked up for years and years.

"His intentions that day were pure evil."

John was in the airport bar above the check-in area with Lorna and their
daughters Sorcha and Eve when the attack took place.

They had been looking forward to a family holiday in Palma and were relaxing
ahead of their flight when all hell broke loose.

John, from Johnstone, told how he led his family to safety as flames engulfed
the Jeep Cherokee that had been crashed into the main terminal by the
terrorists.

As they dashed across a walkway, they looked below and could see that a man near
the Jeep had become a human fireball.

John, 36, said: "That was to be the children's first holiday abroad and they
were really excited about it but I guess you could say that things didn't quite
go according to plan.

"The kids could see the car and the guy on fire as we went over the walkway.

"It was really upsetting for them. We headed out to the Holiday Inn and had a
coffee there.

"The kids were crying. They were terrified."

John said that, as it was the start of the school holidays, there were lots of
families around - and everyone was confused and upset.

"I heard a thumping sound and thought it was suitcases down at check-in," he
recalled. "Then the alarm went off and we were told to evacuate. That was when I
heard screaming and people started running.

"I grabbed my wife and kids and went across the walkway.

"I decided not to head downstairs because the stairs were a total bottleneck.

"When we got to the hotel, I tried to keep the kids' backs to the TV because Sky
News were covering the incident.

"I've experienced all sorts of things in my days as a policeman, so seeing the
man on fire didn't shock me, but Lorna was upset because the kids were so
scared."

John has followed coverage of the terror trial at Woolwich Crown Court and has
been bemused by the desperate defence put forward by Abdulla.

He said: "Abdulla hasn't even had the courage to admit that he intended to kill
people in the airport attack and, for me, that makes him a coward.

"He has claimed he only wanted to change people's opinions and didn't intend to
hurt anyone but that is nonsense.

"The evidence against him has been overwhelming."

LOAD-DATE: December 17, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:  HAPPIER TIMES: John, his wife Lorna and Sorcha
 TERRIFYING: The burning jeep, top, Ahmed, above right, who died following the
attack, Asha, below Ahmed, who was cleared, and equipment used by Bilal Abdulla
to create home-made explosive devices in the house in Houston

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                           Copyright 2008 MGN Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              240 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                             Paisley Daily Express

                          December 17, 2008 Wednesday
                                  1ST Edition

BOMB CARNAGE ATTEMPT;
TERROR ATTACK VERDICT ...

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 143 words


Prosecutors had claimed that Abdulla built the bombs and attacked the targets
with Ahmed, while Asha played a key role behind the scenes by advising.

They also said that, in the case of both the attack on the airport and the one
in London, it was good fortune alone that there had been no loss of life.

Mr Laidlaw told the jury that Abdulla was motivated by revenge for how he
believed the UK was treating Muslims in conflicts around the world.

Abdulla admitted in court that he was "a terrorist" as defined by English law.

But he added he had wanted to frighten people rather than murder them.

The jury found Abdulla guilty of conspiracy to murder and conspiracy to cause
explosions.

Asha, 28, admitted knowing the two bombers but denied any knowledge of their
attacks. He was found not guilty of conspiracy to murder and conspiracy to cause
explosions.

LOAD-DATE: December 17, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                           Copyright 2008 MGN Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              241 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                             Paisley Daily Express

                          December 17, 2008 Wednesday
                                  1ST Edition

The day terror came to town;
TERROR ATTACK VERDICT ...

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 546 words


TERROR came to Paisley's doorstep on June 30, last year - a day the town will
never forget.

And the guilty verdict against Bilal Abdulla at Woolwich Crown Court yesterday
will bring back painful memories of that attack on Glasgow Airport which, almost
18 months on, remain fresh in the minds of those caught up in the carnage.

Hero firemen, police officers, airport staff and ordinary holidaymakers were
among those who ignored the risk to their own safety in the effort to prevent
innocent lives being lost after a blazing Jeep was driven into the main terminal
building.

The shocking events that took place at 3.15pm that wet Saturday in summer - and
the incredible twists and turns that followed as police investigated the airport
attack - rocked Paisley to its very foundations.

For most people in the town, terrorism had been a nightmare experienced only by
others on TV screens - but, that day, it was way too close to home for comfort.

Firefighters from Paisley and Renfrew had arrived at the blazing terminal within
minutes of 999 calls coming in from terrified airport staff and holidaymakers.

Initially, some of the emergency workers thought they were dealing with a
run-of-the-mill car accident but it quickly became apparent this was something
more sinister.

Thousands of people were caught up in the drama of June 30 last year.

Among those at the airport that day as they waited to board a holiday flight to
Cyprus were Johnstone couple Ian and Eileen Pennie.

They would have been just yards from the Jeep when it smashed into the terminal
doors if it hadn't been for a birthday present Eileen had bought for her
husband.

Under normal circumstances, the couple would have been at the check-in desks at
3.15pm - the exact time when the burning vehicle ploughed into the terminal
building.

But they escaped the worst of the carnage as Eileen had bought Ian tickets for
the airport's executive lounge as a birthday gift, meaning they had checked in
earlier than usual.

The dreadful events of that day are still clear in Eileen's mind.

She said: "I remember a black cloud of smoke spreading through the airport.

"It was a giant cloud that came rolling towards us.

"It was all very frightening.

"It was a horrible day - very cold and wet - and, when we got outside the
terminal building, we stood in a shelter.

"Someone there said they thought a man had suffered a heart attack at the wheel
of his car and ended up crashing into the terminal.

"When I said I'd heard it was a terror attack, nobody believed me."

The airport attack wasn't the end of the drama for Paisley people.

In the days that followed, there were a number of bomb scares that left folk in
the town nervous and on edge.

Bomb disposal squads raced to Paisley's Royal Alexandra Hospital, as well as the
Lagoon leisure centre, but the alerts turned out to be false alarms.

The terrifying events of the end of June and start of July last year brought the
message home to local families that, in this dangerous world we all share,
Paisley had become a target.

Those same families will be hoping the guilty verdict delivered against Abdulla
yesterday - and the life sentence he now faces - will act as a deterrent to help
prevent similar events darkening Paisley's door in future years.

LOAD-DATE: December 17, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:  PREPARATION: CCTV footage of Abdulla at the Shell garage in Linwood
 DESTRUCTION: The Jeep used in the terror attack

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                           Copyright 2008 MGN Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              242 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                                The Western Mail

                          December 17, 2008 Wednesday
                                 First Edition

Jordanian doctor cleared of helping to plot terrorist car bombattacks  ;
attacks

BYLINE: Chris Greenwood

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 715 words


AN NHS doctor who trained at a Welsh hospital was last night cleared of plotting
to murder hundreds of people with car bomb attacks in London and Glasgow.

Neurosurgeon Mohammed Asha, 28, will fight to stay in Britain and continue his
career, his solicitor said after the Jordanian was cleared.

But Dr Asha's close friend and fellow doctor, Bilal Abdulla, 29, faces life in
prison after being found guilty of conspiracy to murder and to cause explosions
by a jury at the end of a nine-week trial at Woolwich Crown Court.

Abdulla drove one of two home-made Mercedes car bombs, each packed with gas
cylinders, petrol and nails, into London's West End last summer.

When they failed to explode, he joined a desperate suicide attack on Glasgow
Airport's main terminal building with Indian PhD student Kafeel Ahmed.

The court heard evidence of how Dr Asha met Abdulla several times and was in
regular mobile phone contact. He also lent the terrorist pounds 1,300.

But the jury found he was an innocent dupe who knew nothing of his friend's
murderous plans.

Dr Asha - who graduated in Jordan in 2004 then trained at Prince Philip Hospital
in Llanelli before joining the Royal Shrewsbury Hospital in 2005 - admitted that
he suspected Abdulla harboured extremist beliefs, but wanted to help him further
his career and find a wife.

After the verdicts, trial judgeMr Justice Mackay said: "Dr Asha, you have been
found not guilty by the jury on both counts and that means what it says. You are
not guilty of these charges and may be discharged and resume, I hope, your life
as it was before."

Dr Asha will now be transferred from Belmarsh Prison to an immigration detention
centre where he will attempt to obtain a fresh working visa.

His solicitor, Tayab Ali, said the father-of-one was determined to return to the
profession he loved.

"He wants to stay in this country and resume his medical career. He is very
disappointed that he is still in custody after being acquitted."

Dr Asha did not walk free from the high-security dock at the dramatic conclusion
of the trial. He has been served with deportation papers after his
highly-skilled migrant programme visa expired while he was on remand.

Members of his legal team said he is unhappy that he now faced being transferred
from prison to a Government immigration detention centre.

They were last night considering whether to take their case to the High Court to
force the authorities to free him.

It is understood that the doctor, whose wife and young son returned to Jordan
after his arrest, has little money and no job offer.

The court heard evidence from a string of colleagues who paid tribute to his
skills and learning.

One said he would not be surprised if Dr Asha became the best neurologist in
Britain.

Earlier, Deputy Assistant Commissioner John McDowall, head of Scotland Yard's
Counter Terrorism Command, had told the court the bombs in London's West End
were to be the first in a series of attacks.

Hesaid many people could have been killed and it was "more by luck than
judgement" that repeated attempts to detonate the devices by mobile phone
failed.

Strathclyde Police Assistant Chief Constable Campbell Corrigan said many people
would also have been killed at Glasgow Airport without the actions of police and
bystanders.

Mr Corrigan said Abdulla intended to cause "death and destruction" and his
conviction was a "positive result for the population of the United Kingdom".

Abdulla studied in Cambridge before taking a post as a junior doctor at the
Royal Alexandra Hospital in Paisley.

But he was secretly a member of a terrorist cell that wanted to plunge Britain
back into terror.

Shortly after 1.30am on July 29 last year, Abdulla parked one battered Mercedes
outside Tiger Tiger, a London nightclub packed with more than 500 people.

Ahmed parked a similar vehicle at a nearby bus stop. Detonators left in both
vehicles failed.

The next day Abdulla and Ahmed loaded a Jeep with gas canisters, petrol, nails
and Molotov cocktails. Ahmed drove the vehicle into the terminal building at
Glasgow Airport.

As they set fire to the Jeep, both men threw petrol bombs and fought violently
with police.

Ahmed died one month later from critical burns.

Abdulla will be sentenced at Woolwich Crown Court today.

LOAD-DATE: December 17, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:  BURNING: Flames rise from the Jeep after the failed car bomb attack on
Glasgow airport in June 2007
 CLEARED: Mohammed Asha

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                    Copyright 2008 Western Mail and Echo Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                              243 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                 BBC Monitoring Former Soviet Union - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                           December 18, 2008 Thursday

Russia: Almost 100 terror attacks averted in N Caucasus in 2008 - security chief

LENGTH: 179 words


Text of report by corporate-owned Russian news agency Interfax

Moscow, 18 December: The Russian Federal Security Service [FSB] prevented 97
crimes that were terrorist in nature in the North Caucasus this year, FSB
director Aleksandr Bortnikov said at a meeting with heads of leading Russian
media outlets on Thursday [18 December].

"A total of 97 crimes that were terrorist in nature were prevented this year, 50
of which were planned to be committed in public places," Bortnikov said.

FSB reports indicate that "the measures taken resulted in curtailing the
criminal activities of more than 680 bandits and their accomplices".

About 900 people have been convicted for crimes linked to terrorist and
extremist activities, Bortnikov said.

According to his information, in the course of a counterterrorism operation, 200
active members and heads of militant groups put up armed resistance and were
eliminated, "including the suicide bomber Mutsolgov, who was preparing to commit
a terrorist attack in a public place".

Source: Interfax news agency, Moscow, in Russian 1046 gmt 18 Dec 08

LOAD-DATE: December 18, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2008 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              244 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                            Daily Post (North Wales)

                           December 18, 2008 Thursday
                                 Mersey Edition

Judge attacks anti-terror police over interview tactics

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 149 words


ANTI-TERROR police were criticised by a senior judge yesterday as an NHS doctor
cleared of the London and Glasgow car bomb plot said the case had "obliterated"
his life.

Mr Justice Mackay expressed concern about tactics used by officers as he
sentenced Bilal Abdulla, 29, to at least 32 years in prison for plotting to
murder hundreds of people.

The judge said breaches by police who interviewed Abdulla's co-defendant, Dr
Mohammed Asha, could have led to vital evidence being excluded from the trial.

Abdulla and coconspirator Kafeel Ahmed planted two car bombs in London's West
End, in June last year, before driving a Jeep packed with petrol bombs and gas
canisters into a terminal building at Glasgow airport.

Indian engineering student Ahmed died a month later.

Police are accused of failing to grant Dr Asha access to legal advice, and
falsely implying they had evidence against him.

LOAD-DATE: December 18, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:  Bilal Abdulla
 Flames rising from the Jeep after the car bomb attack on Glasgow airport

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2008 Trinity Mirror plc
                              All Rights Reserved

                              245 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                  Guardian.com

                               December 18, 2008

Indian TV agrees code on covering terrorism after Mumbai attacks

LENGTH: 650 words


India's television networks today agreed to ban live phone-ins with
"terrorists", avoid broadcasting security operations and drop repeated shots of
the aftermath of violent crime after being criticised for coverage of the Mumbai
terror attacks.

The guidelines, overseen by a former chief justice, are a response to the
minute-by-minute coverage of last month's three-day assault, during which the
government temporarily shut television stations for a little less than an hour.

Under the "emergency protocol", broadcasters in the country will now delay live
coverage of sensitive incidents and withhold information on security operations.
Ministers will still be able to take channels off air, but it is seen as a
"nuclear option".

Television stations gave audiences a ringside seat to the violence in Mumbai as
10 militants ran amok, killing 170 people in India's financial capital. Many
channels ran startling live images of gunmen spraying bullets into crowds of
people. Even before the Mumbai attacks, stations often broadcast graphic shots
of bloodied crime-scenes which would rarely be aired elsewhere.

India's booming news industry has grown exponentially in recent years with
dozens of 24-hour news stations opening but some say that the regulation has
failed to keep pace.

"It is a failure of self-regulation which by its nature is left up to
individuals' consciences," said Rajdeep Sardesai, editor-in-chief of CNN-IBN, an
Indian news channel. "We had set a code of conduct up in October but then came
Mumbai. The challenge is whether (the new protocol's) intent can be translated
into implementation."

The News Broadcasters Association (NBA) managed to stave off the threat of a new
government body, headed by a civil servant, to regulate news content in the
country. Senior politicians claimed the militants had been able to check
counter-terrorist measures during the attacks by watching Indian television.

According to senior opposition figures, the most egregious complaint was that
the live feed of commandos being dropped onto the roof of the Jewish centre in
Mumbai directly endangered the success of operations and safety of hostages as
well as security forces.

Another channel, India TV, had been given a dressing down by India's
broadcasting ministry for airing an interview with "terrorists" which the
government said was affording a "platform to espouse their cause".

Arnab Goswani, the editor-in-chief of Times Now, India's biggest
English-language news channel, which had been accused of adopting a "Fox News,
war-mongering stance", defended broadcasters saying that criticism had to be
seen as part of the "government and media learning how to deal with sensitive
issues".

"Self regulation remains the key. We do not want regulation thrust upon us and
we want to protect the media's independence. I think we asked tough questions of
everyone including politicians and human rights activists. In a democracy
nothing should be left unquestioned."

International news channels, which take live footage from local broadcasters,
already operate in India under strict government guidelines.

This is not the first time television stations has been accused of undermining
security operations. When terrorists took Israeli athletes hostage during the
1972 Olympic games, German security forces were forced to cancel a rescue
attempt after film crews police preparing to assault the Olympic village.

The after-effects of the Mumbai attacks continued across South Asia today as the
Indian government rushed a new law through parliament allowing police to hold
suspects for up to 180 days without charge.

Meanwhile, Pakistan summoned a senior Indian diplomat to protest alleged
violations of its airspace by Indian warplanes. Fighter jets were scrambled to
chase off the intruders which crossed into Pakistani airspace on Saturday, but
Islamabad described the violations as "technical" and "inadvertent".

LOAD-DATE: December 18, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


      Copyright  2008  Guardian Unlimited (© Guardian Newspapers Limited)
                              All rights reserved

                              246 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                          The Guardian - Final Edition

                            December 18, 2008 Friday

International: Obama team will get crisis training to prepare for terrorist
attacks: US said to be vulnerable to enemies during transition: Loss of
president and raid by hackers prepared for

BYLINE: Suzanne Goldenberg, Washington

SECTION: GUARDIAN INTERNATIONAL PAGES; Pg. 22

LENGTH: 647 words


Barack Obama's White House team is to undergo a crash course in how to handle
terrorist attacks and international crises, in arigorous efforts to prepare the
administration for early challenges in office.

Briefings and exercises for potential international alarms and security threats,
the most comprehensive ever for any incoming officials, will include two days of
hands-on training in Januarywhereby cabinet officials will be questioned on
dealing with potential disaster scenarios, including an attack that would wipe
out the top tier of America's political leadership.

Ken Wainstein, George Bush's adviser on homeland security, told reporters that
the "tabletop exercises" for incoming cabinet officials were part of an
initiative by the president to ensure that when he goes the US does not drop its
guard during the first post-9/11 transition of power.

Preparing for Obama's takeover on 20 January has become an overriding
preoccupation of both camps. Bush has pledged repeatedly to ensure a smooth
handover.

"We care about (Obama)," he told CNN this week. "We want him to be successful,
and we want the transition to work." The Obama camp has praised the Bush
administration for its co-operation.

White House officials yesterday cast those efforts as part of Bush's mission to
leave America safer than it was at the time of the 9/11 attacks.

Senior administration officials are deputed to conduct personal security
briefings for their successors. The White House has issued dozens of memos on
what it sees as problems awaiting the next president. Wainstein said that he was
spending 30% to 40% of his time briefing the Obama camp on security issues.

The preparation extends to crafting a dozen possible responses to scenarios,
from a nuclear explosion in North Korea to terrorists hacking US computer
systems. These have been seen as a sign of the extraordinary efforts by Bush and
Obama to ensure a smooth transition.

Obama can also expect more conventional early diplomatic challenges. Yesterday
the state department's top arms control official, John Rood, said he believes
the Russian government intends to "test the mettle" of the Obama administration
on missile defence and other issues.

Rood said that Moscow had paused in anticipation of a new national security
approach in Washington. But he said: "My assessment is that the Russians intend
to test the mettle of the new administration and the new president. The future
will show how the new administration chooses to answer that challenge."

Security experts concede that the transition period between election and
inauguration could leave America exposed to attack. Obama cited those dangers as
a rationale for his drive to install his White House staff and cabinet without
delay.

Wainstein said there was no specific intelligence of any elevated threat. But
the prospect that al-Qaida or other organisations could exploit the transition
period gave impetus to Obama's efforts to roll out virtually his entire White
House and cabinet team at a swifter pace than any other president. He announced
his national security team on 1 December.

Yesterday he announced the Colorado senator, Ken Salazar, as his secretary of
the interior, and the former Iowa governor Tom Vilsack as secretary of
agriculture.

However, there have been crucial gaps. Obama has yet to settle on a director of
national intelligence or a CIA chief. The president-elect had to abandon his
first choice for CIA chief, a former Bush administration official, because he
had some oversight of the agency's interrogation programme, including
waterboarding.

And despite the overall appearance of a seamless transition, there have also
been hiccups. The Obama camp has been frustrated in its efforts to move ahead in
closing down Guantanamo Bay, in part because the Bush administration has failed
to hand over detainee case files, sources close to the transition said.

LOAD-DATE: April 29, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2008 Guardian Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              247 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                          Press Association Mediapoint

                     December 18, 2008 Thursday 3:09 PM BST

PEER VOWS TO STAY AT MUMBAI TERROR-ATTACK HOTEL

BYLINE: Nicholas Randall and Anthony Looch, Press Association Lords Staff

SECTION: PARLIAMENTARY NEWS

LENGTH: 546 words


A prominent businessman born in India today pledged to stay at the Taj Mahal
hotel the next time he is in Mumbai despite the recent terrorist attacks.

More than 170 people died in last month's atrocities in the city, which included
a siege of the hotel.

But Lord Bilimoria, the chairman of the Indo-British Partnership Network, told
peers: ``When I am in Bombay I stay at the Taj hotel. When I go with my family
and children they always look forward to it and love staying there. It is after
all one of the finest hotels in the world.

``After these attacks my children asked me: 'Will we be staying at the Taj
again?' I said to them: 'Of course we will.'''

Lord Bilimoria, the founder of Cobra beer, said: ``India have had several
terrorist attacks in the last few years with almost 1,000 people killed in the
last three years. But every time India bounces back.''

He also praised the England cricket for ``defying'' the terrorists and returning
to India. He said the sport is ``at the heart of the Indian nation''.

``Having been born and brought up in India I'm often asked which country I
support in cricket and would I pass the so-called Tebbit test,'' he added.

``I hugely enjoy the game purely for the appreciation of cricket without taking
sides, but I was overjoyed when one of the greatest cricketers of all time,
Sachin Tendulkar, scored a century and won the game for India.''

Labour's Lord Parekh, who was brought up in India and educated at Bombay
University, praised Tendulkar for ``very quietly scoring a century'' while
knowing that he could help to ``heal the national pain''.

Crossbencher the Earl of Sandwich added: ``We should congratulate both the
England and the India cricket teams for going ahead with the Test match in
Chennai and producing such an outstanding performance on both sides so soon
after these events.''

He added: ``Cricket must be one of the most convincing demonstrations of the
victory of the human sprit over violence and terrorism.''

Liberal Democrat frontbencher Lord Dholakia, who was brought up in India, said
the 'Tebbit test' needed to be ``revised''.

He told peers: ``I'm glad that the cricket tour did take place, but I'm sad that
my team lost.''

Foreign Office minister Lord Malloch-Brown, replying to the debate on the
current situation in India, said: ``It is now widely acknowledged that the
Mumbai attacks were perpetrated by members of a militant extremist group based
in Pakistan, Lashka-e-Taiba.

``During the past two weeks, most recently by the Prime Minister, we have urged
the Pakistani Government to co-operate fully with the India authorities'
investigation into the attacks to identify those responsible and bring them to
justice.

``We think it is enormously important that nobody doubts the evidence, which I'm
afraid is utterly overwhelming, that these attacks were organised by groups and
individuals based in Pakistan.

``It is equally the case that there is no evidence at this stage to link the
attacks to the authorities or any part of the government system in Pakistan.''

Commenting on the England cricket tour, he said: ``I'm not going to take sides,
except to say that here on these benches there was a rather unsportsmanlike
mumbling about wouldn't it have been a good occasion for the Indians to have
just let us win.''

LOAD-DATE: December 19, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newswire


                  Copyright 2008 The Press Association Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              248 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                                  Wirral Globe

                           December 18, 2008 Thursday

Jailed for axe raid terror attack

BYLINE: Court reporter

SECTION: NEWS (WIRRALNEWS)

LENGTH: 287 words


A MASKED raider leapt onto a shop counter armed with an axe and threatened the
terrified young woman assistant, a court heard.

Gavin Miller struck at the DVD shop in Market Street, Hoylake, after travelling
there by train and sending in a 15-year-old boy to check out the premises.

Liverpool Crown Court heard that the pair had set off from Birkenhead on October
15 and got the train to West Kirby.

They wandered around and after trying garage doors Miller found an insecure one
and took an axe from the premises.

He stole two bicycles from the yard behind the DVD shop and they cycled off but
Miller then decided to rob the shop and they returned, said Geoffrey Fryar,
prosecuting.

After the boy reported that there was only a young woman assistant Miller, his
face hidden by a scarf and hood, burst in and leapt onto the counter brandishing
the axe .

He told the terrified assistant, "Give me the money or I'll kill you".

She opened the till and he grabbed cash while the assistant, who feared for her
life, continued to scream, said Mr Fryar.

30-year-old Miller was later arrested during which he became violent and had to
be restrained. When later interviewed he admitted responsibility for the
offence.

Miller, of Laird Street, Birkenhead, pleaded guilty to robbery and theft and was
jailed for a total of five years ten months.

John Weate, defending, said that Miller, who has previous convictions, has
alcohol problems.

He appreciated he would receive a lengthy sentence and had not tried in minimise
his actions.

Jailing Miller, Judge Gerald Clifton said that the incident had had a long term
psychological effect on the victim.

The robbery was pre-planned and he had disguised his appearance and targetted a
vulnerable victim.

LOAD-DATE: December 18, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2008 NewsQuest Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              249 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring South Asia - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                            December 19, 2008 Friday

Mauritius voices support for India over recent terror attacks

LENGTH: 229 words


Text of report by Indian news agency PTI

Dehradun [in Uttarakhand State, northern India], [Thursday] 18 December:
Mauritius President Aniruddha Jagannath Thursday expressed solidarity with India
over the recent terror attacks and said Pakistan deserved to be condemned if it
was involved in bloodshed in India.

"The entire world should be united in the fight against terror. If involvement
of Pakistan is proved in terrorist activities in India, then it should be
condemned," the visiting head of state said.

When asked as to what role Mauritius would play in India's fight against terror,
he said: "India is a very big country and Mauritius is very small."

Speaking after releasing a book titled "Nanda Rajjat" written by Uttarakhand
Health Minister Ramesh Pokhariyal Nishank, Jagannath told reporters that bonds
between India and Mauritius would "grow stronger with time".

Referring to migration from the subcontinent to his country he said: "There is
not only a relation of friendship or brotherhood between the two nations, but
also a blood relation between us."

He said his ancestors had gone to Mauritius as labourers.

Recalling the visit of former Prime Minister Indira Gandhi to Mauritius,
Jagannath said she described Mauritius as mini-India.

"And her statement in this regard was very true," he added.

Source: PTI news agency, New Delhi, in English 1716gmt 18 Dec 08

LOAD-DATE: December 19, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2008 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              250 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring South Asia - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                            December 19, 2008 Friday

India: Mumbai Taj Hotel prepares for opening after terror attacks

LENGTH: 560 words


Text of report by published by Indian news agency PTI


Mumbai, 19 December: The Taj Palace, which stands as a grim reminder to the
worst terror attack in Mumbai, is now witnessing a lot of activity with
employees working tirelessly to prepare a portion of the hotel for receiving
guests from 21 December. The Taj, a heritage building which has hosted foreign
dignitaries and celebrities from across the world over the last 100 years, has
been surrounded with barricades blocking a direct view of its front entrance,
the location of the final standoff between security forces and terrorists. White
covers have been used to conceal the damage caused on the first floor of the
heritage hotel facing the Gateway of India and its main dome, which was up in
flames after grenades were lobbed at it by the terrorists. Similarly, work is
also on progress in the Taj Tower, of which 268 room including nine suites will
be thrown open to guests on 21 December, with workers toiling to prepare the
hotel for the opening.

An employee said they were all working towards ensuring the hotel was the same
as it was before the terrorists struck it on the night of 26 November. "On 20
December, we are having a pre-opening party for employees and then will gear up
for the opening on 21 December," the employee said on condition on anonymity.
Apart from the rooms, the hotel will also throw open doors to its restaurants in
the tower wing which include the upscale "Zodiac Grill" and "Aquarius", the
lounge bar by the swimming pool, Taj officials said.

Employees and workers have been issued specially prepared identity cards for
entering into the Taj. "It does feel nice that the hotel will be opening soon
but I would not like to say anything else," an employee of the Taj Hotel said on
condition of anonymity. Support staff like drivers have also been recalled and
are waiting for their first assignments after close to a month of inactivity.
"We have been on leave since the day of the terrorist attack. Luckily, I was not
there on that day and it was only yesterday that we were told to return back to
work," Nazim, a driver who works at the hotel, said. "I am just hoping that once
the hotel reopens we will go back to the same as it was before," he said. Stores
that lined the ground floor of the Taj tower will also reopen along with the
hotel. "For us it is as good as a new life," Gopi Nair, manager of Nalanda
bookstore, one of the many stores that is located in the hotel, said. "On the
day of the attack, our staff of 20 were evacuated unhurt and the store also did
not sustain any damage," he said. The staff of the bookstore were allowed access
to the store yesterday and have spent the last few days cleaning and preparing
for the opening despite having to work without electricity at times, Nair said.

The front facade of the Taj tower hotel bears no sign of the repair work which
has been undertaken over the last few weeks but workers were seen dangling off
the roof at the rear as they put finishing touches to the building. Lanes that
lead to the hotel are still cordoned off, stores adjoining it continue to be
closed and are likely to remain so until 21 December. Security personnel and
police officials continue to turn away eager tourists who want a photograph of
the hotel "from a little closer".

Source: PTI news agency, New Delhi, in English 1200gmt 19 Dec 08

LOAD-DATE: December 19, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2008 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              251 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                             Daily Record (PM) - UK

                            December 19, 2008 Friday
                                  West Edition

MASKED GUNMAN GRABS pounds 50,000 AT BANK;
Terror for snatch attack security guards

BYLINE: Chris Musson

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 153 words


TWO security guards were held up at gunpoint by a masked raider in a pounds
50,000 bank heist.

The terrifying attack took place late last night in Bothwell, just outside
Glasgow.

The guards from security firmG4 were walking back to their van outside the Bank
of Scotland on Main Street when the gunman struck at around 11.45pm.

As the guards were refilling a cash machine, a dark coloured car drove up at
high speed and screeched to a halt.

The passenger, who was wearing a balaclava, jumped out and threatened the guards
with a gun.

The armed robber then grabbed a cash container and dived back into the car,
which sped off towards Hamilton.

Police said the security guards were uninjured but badly shaken.

Detective Inspector Bobby Hendren today appealed for witnesses to come forward.

He said: "We are committed to tracing those responsible for this robbery and
will use every means at our disposal to do so."

LOAD-DATE: December 22, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                           Copyright 2008 MGN Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              252 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                              The Herald (Glasgow)

                            December 19, 2008 Friday
                                 Final Edition

The night Pan Am flight 103 was blown out of the sky;
'I was the one who told my parents my brother's plane had crashed';
Twenty years ago this weekend, Lockerbie became forever linked to what is still
the UK's worst terrorist attack. As the community prepares to mark the
anniversary, six individuals affected tell Lucy Adams and Alison Campsie how the
night of December 21, 1988, changed their lives forever.;
THE PEOPLE

BYLINE: Lucy Adams and Alison Campsie

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 1892 words


THE NEWBORN

AIMEE GUTHRIE

DECEMBER 21, 1988 is a day of bittersweet significance for Lockerbie resident
Liz Guthrie. It may be the day of Britain's biggest mass murder, but it is also
the date her daughter Aimee was born, As Mrs Guthrie lay in Cresswell Hospital
in Dumfries giving birth to her second child, Pan  Am flight 103 was coming down
from the skies above her home town.

"Straight after I had Aimee the nurses put her on the scales to weigh her and
then they all vanished, " Mrs Guthrie, 46, said.

"I told my husband Wallace she would be getting cold in there and to find out
what was going on. He had already been told something had happened at Lockerbie,
but nobody had told me."

As Mrs Guthrie's husband raced back to the town to find out what had happened,
staff all around her were preparing for a major incident with the potential for
multiple casualties. It was a plan that would never be put into action. There
were no casualties, only fatalities.

"I didn't know quite how bad it was, " she said.

Once she was home, Mrs Guthrie confined herself to the living quarters of the
Kings Arms Hotel in the town, which she then ran with her husband.

"I felt guilty I was happy and everybody else was so miserable, " she added. "If
I'm honest there was a lot of guilt involved and I deliberately kept away from
the public areas in the hotel.

"That was not my habit at all -  normally I would have walked in with the baby
and said 'look what I've got'  to all and sundry.

"A lot of them were close personal friends, but I stayed up the stairs in the
living accommodation for a long time, as long as I could."

Aimee was brought up and educated in Lockerbie. She now lives with her partner
in  nearby Gretna, and works in a coffee shop. Mrs Guthrie says her daughter has
never been fazed by the date of her birth.

"Aimee says herself that she was not really aware of why people always kept
turning up wanting to take her picture."

THE PRIEST

FATHER PATRICK KEEGANS

FOR so many, the tragedy at Lockerbie remains and will always be the darkest
time of their life. For Father Patrick Keegans however, it was not.

Offering hope and care to the residents of the town was part of a path to
redemption he had started a year previously when he reached his lowest ebb.

"Before Lockerbie I had a very serious problem with alcoholism and was wasting
my life and other people's, " he explained. "I was suicidal and in the January
of 1988 I asked for help and went into a treatment centre. This is when my life
really changed. It was incredible to be sober again and get my life back
together.

"I have never felt like drinking again - even when Lockerbie happened - but
having come through that I felt I could help other people so much more."

He was at home with his mother in Sherwood Crescent preparing for Christmas when
the bomb struck. He heard a roaring sound and then a huge explosion which
engulfed the street in flames. When he looked out he saw that three of the homes
at the end of the Crescent had vanished.

Despite the damage, he moved back on Hogmanay, conducted the first funeral for
10-year-old Joanne Flannigan and counselled bereaved relatives from Scotland and
overseas. "I used to think of my life in terms of pre-Lockerbie and
post-Lockerbie, but as time has gone on my life has become whole again, " he
says.

"It has not really changed me as a person but it has changed my life. I went
from having a normal life to being thrust into another dimension. Since then I
have presided over weddings and baptisms and have made great friends with  those
affected."

He also conducted the funeral more recently of Gerry Buser from New Jersey, who
lost her husband, son and pregnant daughter that night.

After the tragedy he stayed in Lockerbie for five years.

"I could have stayed there forever as the priest who was there during the
Lockerbie disaster, but I wanted to move on, " he said.

THE SISTER

KARA MONETTI

FIFTEENYEAROLD Kara Monetti was sitting watching TV at home in Cherry Hill, New
Jersey, when her favourite soap opera was interrupted by a news bulletin.

The high school student reached for the remote to switch channels but her
attention was grabbed by the report that a New York-bound aeroplane had come
down over Scotland.

The awful realisation flooded the teenager that her brother Rick was on board.
He was just 20 and one of 35 US students making their way home on the packed
flight to spend Christmas with their families.

The married mother of three, whose married name is Kara Weipz, said: "I was the
one who had to tell my parents that my brother's plane had crashed.

"My dad was at work and my mom was on her way back from work so I had to wait
until she got home.

"I had it all planned, what I was going to say, and then she walked in the door
and I just blurted it out. She just fell to the ground."

Mrs Weipz, 35, said: "I do in a sense look forward to the memorial service as a
very comforting thing -  to be around a group of people where I don't have to
explain what I'm feeling or why I'm feeling it, because they are going through
the same type of thing."

She said there is much relatives feel they do not know about the circumstances
which led to the bombing, despite the conviction of Abdelbaset Ali Mohmed al
Megrahi and a dollars-2bn compensation payout from Libya.

Ms Weipz, president of The Victims of Pan Am flight 103, has no doubt about
Megrahi's guilt.

She added that there was no indication as to how long Megrahi would  live with
his recent diagnosis of terminal cancer.

"They say 10 years; it could be a week. That's life. Nobody has a definite time.
I sure don't think that at 20 years old it was my brother's time. He had a
trial, he had an appeal, and I pray to God every day that every other appeal he
files has the same result."

THE PROFESSOR

ROBERT BLACK

ROBERT Black QC was born and raised in the village of Lockerbie and his parents
were in the family home the night that Pan Am flight 103 was blown from the
skies.

He visited his mother and father two days after and saw first hand the effects
the disaster had on those in the town.

Mr Black, emeritus professor of the School of Law at the University of
Edinburgh,  is considered to be the architect of Camp Zeist, the trial in
Holland which led to Megrahi's conviction, but says the guilty verdict had been
a disaster for Scottish justice.

He claimed that, if tried in a Scottish court, Megrahi would never have been
jailed for the mass murder.

"I feel annoyance and anger that the criminal justice system which I have spent
my life teaching and serving would have operated so disastrously badly on this
occasions. I don't feel particularly guilty. It is not my fault - it is the
fault of the system."

Mr Black drove to Lockerbie to spend that Christmas with his parents and said
that the incident had not dominated the lives of ordinary villagers once the
initial shock had passed.

He said the greatest consequence felt by the Black family was that his father
had to stop walking his dog on the golf course where a number of bodies had
landed after falling from the plane.

"For my parents, their neighbours and their friends, it did not dominate their
lives. They were simple country folk and the type of trauma counselling that you
get so much of now did not have much to offer them. Once the initial aftermath
had passed, they got on with their lives - they didn't know what else to do.

"I feel very sorry for the people of Lockerbie. They hope that the 20th
anniversary memorial means the end of the town as the site of a plane crash and
its return to the nice quiet Dumfriesshire market town that it is."

THE WIFE

AISHA MEGRAHI

AISHA Megrahi was a married primary school teacher living in Tripoli in 1991
when she heard, on the television news, that her husband was to be indicted for
the bombing of Pan Am flight 103.

Incredulous at the news, Aisha Megrahi couldn't have predicted how much her life
would change.

Her husband was placed under house arrest and she and their four children were
effectively imprisoned in their whitewashed home - ostracised from friends and
family by the allegations that her husband had orchestrated the biggest
terrorist attack on the British mainland.

They had what she describes as a "very traditional" marriage in 1982.

Within a decade the UN had imposed strict sanctions on her country which they
said could not be lifted until Libya agreed to hand over her husband and his
co-accused Fhimah, renounced terrorism, and agreed to pay some GBP1.7bn in
compensation to relatives of the victims.

In April 1999, when  their fifth child was just four months old, Megrahi was
extradited to appear before a specially created court at Camp Zeist.

After an eight-month hearing, Megrahi was convicted of murdering 270 people by
conspiring to bomb Pan Am flight 103 which exploded over Lockerbie in 1988.

"At the time I heard the news that he was to be arrested, I was pregnant with
Mohamed and I came out in rash all over my body, " said Mrs Megrahi.

"They held him under house arrest in Libya.

"It was very stressful. I remember when the order was issued for him to be taken
to trial.

"It has been so hard to bring up five children on my own."

THE FATHER

JIM SWIRE

DR Jim Swire has become one of the faces most associated with the Lockerbe
tragedy.

His daugter, Flora, a medical student with an interest in neurology, was only 24
when she died on board Pan Am flight 103. On clearing out her London flat after
her death, Dr Swire and his wife Jean found a letter from Cambridge University
inviting her to take up further study with the institution. Dr Swire, his voice
still strained with anguish when referring to his eldest child, described Flora
as vivacious and  feisty.

Dr Swire, 72, of Gloucestershire, visited Colonel Gadaffi within weeks of the
tragedy to persuade the Libyan leader to allow his people to be tried under
Scots law. It was a request which led to the Camp Zeist hearing in The
Netherlands in 2000. But to the distraught father, the legal process failed to
deliver the truth.

He said: "Within weeks I went to see Gadaffi, I don't mind telling you I was
scared.

"I thought he would kidnap me or take me hostage. But he did listen to what I
had to say, which was would he please allow his citizens to be tried under
Scottish justice which was amongst one of the fairest justice systems in the
world."

But after sitting through every day of the nine-month hearing, Dr Swire
maintains that the trial was an "orchestrated attempt" to direct the forces of
justice away from who was responsible  for Britian's biggest ever mass murder.
He believes that Iran, with the assistance of a Syrian terrorist group, was
responsible for the attrocity and that the case against Megrahi was based on a
"bizarre series of coincidences."

He said he felt further guilt that his campaign was causing added upset for
American relatives of bombing victims, but that the need for truth was of
"paramount"  importance.

"My wife Jane realises that the campaign has been a way of coping with the grief
for our eldest daughter Flora, but I don't think either of us dreamt that we
would be in this position 20 years later. Unfortuantely I can't campaign to get
my daughter back.

"I think that Flora would be proud of what I am doing, provided that I don't let
it become a total obsession. Not to have a life outside this would be like
handing another victory to the terrorists."

LOAD-DATE: December 22, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: BORN ON DECEMBER 21: Aimee Guthrie's birthday will always be poignant.
Her mother was in labour at the time of the disaster, and staff at the Dumfries
hospital were preparing for survivors to arrive. There were none. Picture:
Stephen Gibson IMAGES OF MASS MURDER: The cockpit of Pan Am's Maid of the Seas
lies shattered after landing in Main Farm, while the fuselage destroyed many
houses and killed 11 people in the town. Police and the emergency services
scoured the countryside for bodies, luggage, debris THE AFTERMATH: The fuselage
of the Pan Am's Boeing 747, designated flight 103, left a huge crater in
Sherwood Crescent when it exploded on impact. Picture: Martin Cleaver/AP

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: GH


                      Copyright 2008 Newsquest Media Group
                              All Rights Reserved

                              253 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                          The Journal (Newcastle, UK)

                           December 20, 2008 Saturday

Terror Attack Couple Recovering At Home

BYLINE: Sam Wood

SECTION: Pg. 17

LENGTH: 417 words


THE North couple injured in the terrorist attacks in India have returned to
their home in the region.

Michael and Diane Murphy were released from hospital in London and are
recuperating at their home in Bardon Mill, near Hexham.

The couple were still too upset to talk to the Press, but one of their sons,
Graham, told The Journal last night: "I can confirm my parents are back at home
and recovering."

They were just a day into their holiday in the Indian city of Mumbai when gunmen
stormed the tourist area in November.

Mr Murphy, 59, a retired teacher, was injured by a bullet in the ribs as the
couple were caught up in the gunfire outside the Leopold Cafe.

Beginning to slip out of consciousness, the father-of-three was rushed to
hospital   with his wife by his side.

He had to have his spleen removed and was in intensive care in a critical but
stable condition.

Mrs Murphy, 58, also a retired teacher, was   suffered gunshot wounds to her
foot and shrapnel injuries.

The couple were flown back to the UK in a specially chartered aircraft at the
beginning of this month, and were successfully treated in a London hospital.

Terrorists carried out eight separate attacks in the Indian city at the end of
November. More than 150 people were killed and over 300   injured in attacks at
two hotels as well as at the Leopold. Mr and Mrs Murphy had been  due to leave
Mumbai for Goa the following day as part of a five-week tour of India to
celebrate their retirement.

Mr Murphy was a teacher at Haydon Bridge High School, and warden of Ridley Hall,
an education training centre, which also looks after the high school's boarding
pupils.

After the attack, Haydon Bridge High School headteacher John Dowler said: "Mike
was a long-standing and very highly-respected colleague here. He remains a very
close friend to us all and he is still involved in the school. The whole school
community was shocked to hear the news of his involvement in the shooting in the
cafe at Mumbai, with Di by his side."

Following the attacks Mrs Murphy said from her hospital in Mumbai:  "All of a
sudden there was automatic gunfire. The whole place fell apart.

"It was tremendously loud. My husband and I were hit, as were lots of people.

"There were obviously people injured and others who were dead. It was mayhem.
There were so many casualties.

"I stayed with my husband because I could tell he was seriously injured. He was
losing consciousness."

All of a sudden there was  gunfire. The whole place fell apart. It was
tremendously loud

LOAD-DATE: December 20, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


               Copyright 2008 Newcastle Chronicle & Journal Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              254 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                             The Observer (London)

                               December 21, 2008

Escape: News: The big picture: Mumbai's Taj hotel to reopen after terrorist
attacks

SECTION: OBSERVER ESCAPE PAGES; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 199 words


The Taj Mahal Palace and Tower (www.tajhotels.com), one of the two hotels at the
centre of the terrorist attacks in Mumbai last month, is set to re-open the
doors of its 268-room Tower Wing today. Guest services have been upgraded so
that those staying in the wing will be able to use the Taj Club, with free
breakfast and tea, coffee and cocktails. They can now also use the hotel's
personal butler service for free. The swimming pool and several of the
restaurants - including Shamiana, the Aquarius Lounge and Masala Kraft - will be
re-opening in the Palace building, with Souk and the rooftop Banqueting Hall
reopening in

the Tower.

Bedrooms in the Palace building, which suffered severe damage during the
attacks, are still closed for renovation work and no re-opening date has yet
been set, and four of the hotel's restaurants and bars, including the Harbour
Bar and the Sea Lounge, are still being restored.

The damaged Trident hotel will also re-open today, but the other hotel at the
heart of the attacks, the Oberoi, may not re-open for another four to six
months. Life in Mumbai has returned to normal after the attacks and the Foreign
Office no longer advises against visiting the city.


LOAD-DATE: December 22, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2008 Guardian Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              255 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring South Asia - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                            December 22, 2008 Monday

India: Mumbai hotels re-open 26 days after terror attacks

LENGTH: 1004 words


Text of report by Indian news agency PTI

Mumbai, 21 December: Two luxury hotels -Taj Mahal and Trident - Sunday [21
December] wiped out the traces of the unprecedented terror strikes and opened
its doors again, exactly 26 days after gunfire and grenade blasts shook the
enduring symbols of the country's financial capital [Mumbai].

"We cannot be knocked down - this is a memorable day and a tribute to those who
saved many lives," an emotional Tata Group Chairman Ratan Tata said as the
iconic Taj hotel, a group subsidiary, was ready for business again.

"It gives me a great sense of pride--this is the start of a new era," an
emotional Tata said as receptionists wearing warm smiles welcomed the guests in
the lobbies of the hotel to the strains of piped music.

The cling of champagne flutes was back amidst the buzz of who's who of the city
as the Taj hotel extended a red-carpet welcome to its guests.

Playing the perfect host, the hotel pressed into service luxury Jaguars cars to
ferry about 150 guests who had made reservations at the Taj Mahal Tower.

The day for the Taj began with prayers as Tata along with Taj Hotels Resorts and
Palaces Managing Director, Raymond Bickson and staff joined together in
muti-religious prayers to "cleanse" the hotel from all "evil".

At four in the evening, the doors were first opened for high tea, meant only for
a select group of VVIPS. By seven, the hotel was finally open to its guests with
the impeccably dressed staff greeting every patron with folded hands.

Poignant moments were witnessed when Taj Mahal hotel general manager Karambir
Kang, who lost his wife and two sons in the attack, returned back to work today

"Thank you for your support" was the first greeting, besides loads of smiles and
flowers, offered by Trident to one of its first customers in place of the usual
bill as the Hotel came back to life.

The Taj gourmet restaurants like the Zodiac Grill, Masal Kraft and Souk that
have been every food connoisseurs delight, started again with special menus for
the reopening prepared by the chefs.

No one could really ignore the majestic heritage wing of the hotel standing
alone, which incidentally bore the brunt of the audacious terror attack.

Standing right under the moon, the heritage wing didn't for a bit look like
something that had been ravaged from the inside. The hotel brimmed with the same
elegance and pride that it always did for the last 105 years.

Even Tata who dedicated the re-opening of the hotel to the people who lost their
lives in the terror attack could not hide his yearning to see the heritage wing
open and said, "When the old Taj, the heritage wing is restored and rebuilt to
the extent that it needs to be, it will send a stronger message ... we can be
hurt but not knocked out."

Meanwhile at the Tower wing of the hotel, every room had a small personalised
card addressed to the guest expressing gratitude for support in difficult times
besides mentioning that the room rent would go into Taj Welfare Trust that has
been set up to look after the needs of the family and children of those killed
at the hotel.

Many room furnishing have also been changed though the hotel officials claimed
that the look remains the same.

In the lobby, a huge Christmas tree spruced up with lights and decorations
greeted the guests.

The famous and the envious art collection of the hotel still adorned the walls.

One piece of art with a bronze framework, 'Tree of Life' which is about seven
feet high and had been placed on the sixth floor did not suffer any damage
though many at the heritage hotel indeed did.

"The artwork would now be placed at the lobby of the hotel as a memorial and the
names of the 31 persons who lost their lives in the hotel would be engraved on
it," a senior official of the hotel said.

The Trident, which started its operations in morning after a multi-religion
prayer meeting in the reception area, which was also attended by the Chief
Minister Ashok Chavan, started seeing guests some of whom came to show that they
would not be cowed down with such acts.

"We should be bold enough to deter and stop them (terrorists). Instead of
getting scared, we should scare them with our resolve to fight back," Devendra
Ksheer Sagar, one of the first customers, who visited the Trident said.

As the guests started trickling into the glistening lobby of the hotel, dolled
up with flowers, they were greeted by the staff with traditional folded hands
and a yellow flower. It seemed like a usual day but the staff took care that
guests should be given much needed pampering to put the memories under the
carpet.

"Some guests did ask questions about where was I when it (siege) started? Some
were emotional while some were happy that we are back. In some cases we answered
but in most we politely changed the discussion," one Trident staff preferring
anonymity said.

The enhanced security apparatus put in place by the Trident was evident as
bunkers were erected outside the main entrance of the hotel. In addition to this
baggage scanners were also a new sight at the entrance. The security guards,
with polite smile, thoroughly checked the guests and ascertained the identity
before allowing them inside the hotel.

"We would not allow anyone to walk in without proper identification like a
passport or a PAN card," Trident President Rattan Keswani said one the eve of
the reopening of the 550-room, 35-storeyed hotel. He, however, added that hotel
would still have a welcoming environment in spite of stringent security.

"It's not that a person would not be allowed to walk in into the hotel lobby or
sit in one of our restaurants, even if he doesn't have a booking."

The hotels which attract top business tycoons, socialites, politicians, and
showbiz personalities were forced to shut down after groups of armed terrorists,
on a killing spree, laid siege holding guests as hostages.

It was only after a three-day long bloody battle with the security forces that
the luxury hotels could be cleared.

Source: PTI news agency, New Delhi, in English 1920gmt 21 Dec 08

LOAD-DATE: December 22, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2008 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              256 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring South Asia - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                            December 22, 2008 Monday

Indian security forces on alert after terror attack warning

LENGTH: 367 words


Text of report published by Indian private broadcaster Zee News website on 22
December

New Delhi, Dec 22: In the wake of the terror threat issued by foreign
intelligence agencies, security forces across the country have been put on
alert. Foreign intelligence inputs have suggested that five sensitive locations
across the country are on the hit list of the terrorists.

The intelligence agencies have listed five possible attack scenarios - terror
attacks on Goa, Kalpakkam nuclear power plant and the country's biggest Navy
fleet carrier INS Viraat, helicopter based suicide attacks any where in India,
and attacks on places between Mumbai and Chennai from the sea.

The US and European intelligence have provided the inputs, which clearly
indicate that Goa is on the radar of the terrorists. Following the threats, the
state government has banned beach parties this Christmas and New Year. The
government had received recommendation that the beach parties should not be
allowed between 23 December and 5 January due to safety concerns and to avoid
crowding on the beaches.

The atomic plant power at Kalpakkam, Tamil Nadu is also on the hit list. Few
days back, a 10-km radius around the Kalpakkam nuclear installation was declared
a no-fly zone. No-fly directions were issued based on the threat perception
assessed by aviation security and intelligence agencies, particularly in the
wake of the 26/11 Mumbai terror attacks. The reason behind the move is the fear
that terrorists could use a hijacked aircraft as missile to strike on the
sensitive location.

The security agencies also fear that a fidayeen attack using hijacked
helicopters to crash into a sensitive installation like an atomic power station
or a refinery.

INS Viraat, India's only aircraft carrier and the country's biggest warship, is
also under the scanner. The Navy has tightened security for the warship, which
is presently under repair at the shipyard in Kochi.

Based on intelligence inputs the government is also worried that terrorists
could use similar tactics that they had used during the Mumbai strikes and could
launch attack through the western and southern coasts.

Source: Zee News TV website, New Delhi, in English 22 Dec 08

LOAD-DATE: December 22, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2008 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              257 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                                Bournemouth Echo

                            December 22, 2008 Monday

Gun terror as couple attacked at home

BYLINE: Andy Martin

SECTION: LATEST NEWS (BE LATEST NEWS)

LENGTH: 422 words


POLICE are hunting a vicious gang of three armed and masked raiders who
terrified a middle-aged couple after bursting into their isolated Wimborne home
and robbing them.

The couple were attacked and threatened and the woman had a gun pushed into her
face on Friday evening.

The man was tied up by the intruders before they made off with more than £1,000
from Lake Farm House in Willett Road near Ashington.

One of the thieves carried a handgun, a second carried a knife and the third
wielded a piece of wood, possibly a baseball bat or pick-axe handle.

Detective Constable Neil Wright of Bournemouth & Poole CID, said: "The man with
the gun threatened the occupants, a couple aged in their fifties, and demanded
money before the husband was assaulted by two of the robbers - leaving him with
a cut head requiring medical treatment as well as bruised legs.

"No shots were fired and it's still not clear if the hand gun is a firearm or an
imitation, but the wife sustained a bruised left eye when the gun was pushed
into her face by one of the thieves as he demanded money.

"The husband had his wrists tied by the robbers before they made off with more
than £1,000 in money.

"I'm sure that this wasn't a random attack - and there's no doubt that the
couple were very shocked by their frightening experience."

He described the attack as "cowardly."

All three robbers were wearing gloves and black balaclavas with holes for their
eyes.

All were wearing black jackets with front zips and loose fitting black trousers.

Two of them are believed to be white and the third is possibly of mixed race.

There is no estimate for their ages.

The raid happened on Friday night at about 10.40pm.

The man with the gun and the man carrying the piece of wood are both thought to
be at least six feet tall.

The raider with the knife is about five feet eight inches tall.

DC Wright continued: "There's every likelihood that the robbers had a vehicle of
some description and it would have been parked nearby, possibly even with
another man waiting in the driving seat.

"I'd like to hear from anyone who saw any suspicious activity - or a vehicle
parked up or being used in unusual circumstances - in Willett Road between 10pm
and 11pm last evening Friday, "I'd also like to hear from anyone else who has
any other information about the robbery, or about those responsible."

Witnesses and anyone with information should call Dorset Police in confidence on
01202 or 01305 222222 or the free and anonymous Crimestoppers line on 0800
555111 where mobile phone tariffs may apply.

LOAD-DATE: April 24, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2008 NewsQuest Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              258 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                          The Daily Telegraph (London)

                            December 22, 2008 Monday

World's 'unluckiest' tourists caught up in three terror attacks

BYLINE: Chris Irvine

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 246  words


A COUPLE have been labelled the world's unluckiest tourists after being caught
up in three separate terror attacks during their holidays.

Jason and Jenny Cairns-Lawrence, from Dudley, West Midlands, were in central
Mumbai last month when the Indian city came under siege from Islamic militants.

They were also in New York during September 11 2001 when terrorists flew two
passenger planes into the World Trade Centre, bringing down the twin towers and
killing almost 3,000 people.

And four years later they were in London on July 7, when terrorists blew up
three London Underground trains and a double decker bus, resulting in the deaths
of 52 commuters.

Dental laboratory worker Mrs Cairns-Lawrence, 26, said: "It's a strange
coincidence. The terror attacks just happened when we were in the cities.''

The couple praised Mumbai for the city's speedy recovery, adding that it had
been somewhat of an inspiration.

She added: "As I looked around, it was impossible to tell that such a ghastly
thing had happened. In New York people carried the look of terror in their eyes
for weeks after the carnage. In London, the police appeared more scared than the
people.''

The couple refused to cut short their holiday following the Mumbai attack, in
which 164 people were killed in co-ordinated attacks on hotels, a restaurant, a
Jewish centre and a train station.

Mr Cairns-Lawrence, a sales manager, 42, said: "I would say that Mumbai sprang
back to its feet faster than New York or London.''

LOAD-DATE: December 22, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2008 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              259 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                                The Western Mail

                            December 22, 2008 Monday
                                 First Edition

world news bulletin: Hotel reopens after terrorist attacks

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 110 words


HINDU priests chanted prayers and a Muslim priest read verses of the Koran in a
multi-faith prayer ceremony as Mumbai's Oberoi hotel reopened three weeks after
it was targeted in a militant rampage.

The simple ceremony held in the lobby of the hotel yesterday also included
Jewish, Christian, Sikh, Parsi, Buddhist and Jain religious leaders and was
attended by the entire hotel staff and several guests.

Security in and around the hotel was noticeably tighter as guards scanned bags
and sniffer dogs patrolled the grounds outside.

Armed policemen stood watch just weeks after 10 suspected Islamic militants
stormed sites across India's financial capital.

LOAD-DATE: December 22, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                    Copyright 2008 Western Mail and Echo Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                              260 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                            BBC Monitoring Kiev Unit
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                           December 23, 2008 Tuesday

Ukrainian security service boasts of preventing numerous terrorist attacks

LENGTH: 129 words


In 2008, the Security Service of Ukraine (SBU) prevented 246 attempts to stage
terrorist attacks in Ukraine, the SBU acting head, Valentyn Nalyvaychenko, told
Ukrainian radio on 19 December.

Nalyvaychenko's interview was posted on the radio's website.

"I'm glad that 2008 was a peaceful year for citizens. For us, it was not
peaceful at all. We prevented 246 attempts of the terrorist nature before they
became something much worse than just attempts," Nalyvaychenko said.

He added that counteracting terrorism was and will continue to be the SBU's
priority.

"Fighting terrorism is one the special service's priorities," he said.

The interview lasted for 13 minutes. No further processing is planned.

Source: Ukrainian Radio First Programme, Kiev, in Ukrainian 1418 gmt 19 Dec 08

LOAD-DATE: December 23, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2008 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              261 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                              The Herald (Glasgow)

                           December 23, 2008 Tuesday
                                 Final Edition

Brother of terror victim attacks lawyer over Swire criticism

BYLINE: ALISON CHIESA

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 342 words


THE brother of a terror victim has  defended Lockerbie campaigner Jim Swire
against an attack by the lawyer who began the prosecution against the alleged
bombers.

Lord Fraser of Carmyllie claimed that the bereaved father is behaving like a
Stockholm syndrome sufferer and is "too close" to the campaign to clear
Abdelbaset al Megrahi.

Lord Fraser was Lord Advocate in 1991 when he drew up the indictment against al
Megrahi, accusing him of carrying out the atrocity.

In a letter published in The Herald today Charles Norrie - whose brother, Tony,
died in 1989 when a French UTA flight exploded following a suspected Libyan
terrorist attack - says: "When six weeks before indictments were issued against
Mr Megrahi and Mr Fhimah, the names of the four Libyans who were to be charged
with the UTA bombing of 1989 were made public, Jim said to me that none of them
were on his radar, and he doubted any connection of Libya with Lockerbie.

"Far from being captured by the syndrome, Dr Swire has had a healthy disregard
of Mr Megrahi's guilt, from the outset.

"Lord Fraser was always keen to prosecute the Lockerbie two himself, with little
regard to the problematic issues of the evidence. Could we fairly accuse the
ex-Lord Advocate of anti-Stockhom syndrome, of a falling into 'prosecutor's
fallacy'?"

Since losing his daughter, Flora, in the tragedy, Mr Swire, a retired GP, has
become a leading spokesman on behalf of affected UK families.

Mr Norrie adds: "What we must understand about his [Lord Fraser's] intemperate
remarks on Dr Swire's mental condition, made so inappropriately on the occasion
of this sad anniversary, is that now the shallow pretence of Mr Megrahi's guilt
has fallen away for all those who have thought independently about the
'Lockerbie process', such as Professor Koechler, the UN observer at Zeist.

"The Scottish judiciary cannot collectively or individually understand that over
this prosecution it was soundly hoodwinked by a cruel and callous prosecution
composed of half-truths, inspired fantasy and downright lies."

Letters  Page 12

LOAD-DATE: December 23, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: JIM SWIRE: Accused by lawyer of being 'too close' to case.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: GH


                      Copyright 2008 Newsquest Media Group
                              All Rights Reserved

                              262 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring South Asia - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                          December 24, 2008 Wednesday

Pakistan parliament lower house unanimously condemns India terror attacks

LENGTH: 402 words


Text of report by official news agency Associated Press of Pakistan (APP)

Islamabad, [Wednesday] 24 December: The National Assembly [lower house of
parliament] on Wednesday passed a unanimous resolution against 26 November
Mumbai attacks and urged India to exercise restraint from activities undermining
Pakistan's sovereignty.

The resolution was moved by Minister of State for Foreign Affairs Malik Ammad
Ahmed and supported by the whole House.

The resolution urged India to stop hostile propaganda against Pakistan "which
seeks to cover their intelligence failure and does not promote such activities
which do not serve the cause of peace in the region".

The international community was asked to ensure that India also dismantles its
terror networks affecting peace in the region and stop regional destabilization
moves. It also condemned the unsubstantiated allegations levelled in haste
against Pakistan.

The House reaffirmed Pakistan's strong commitment to the peace, security and
stability of South Asia and to eliminating terrorism in all its forms and
manifestations in the region as a whole.

The resolution condemned the war hype situation where war is not an option given
the nuclear capabilities of both the countries.

It called upon India to respond to the constructive proposals made by Pakistan.
These include joint investigations and high-level engagement to address concerns
relating to the Mumbai incident.

The House unanimously resolved that the Pakistani nation is united and stands
ready to defend its honour and dignity as well as Pakistan's sovereignty,
political independence and territorial integrity. The resolution said that the
nation and the armed forces of Pakistan shall together defend Pakistan's
security interests at all costs.

The House reiterated the importance of respect for the principles of
non-intervention and non-interference in the internal affairs of states, which
is an essential prerequisite for ensuring peace, stability and progress of South
Asia.

The resolution reaffirmed Pakistan's desire to pursue its constructive
engagement with India in a comprehensive manner to build confidence and mutual
trust, amicably resolve all outstanding issues, particularly Kashmir, and
establish friendly and good neighbourly relations with India on the basis of
equality and mutual respect.

Source: Associated Press of Pakistan news agency, Islamabad, in English 1104gmt
24 Dec 08

LOAD-DATE: December 24, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2008 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              263 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                   The Mirror

                          December 24, 2008 Wednesday
                                 3 Star Edition

EX-TERRORIST JAILED OVER WIFE ATTACK;
HARASSMENT

BYLINE: BY AIDAN MCGURRAN

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 27

LENGTH: 145 words


A FORMER terrorist married to a social services boss has been jailed for 11
weeks for slapping her.

Alcoholic Jack Prescott, 64, who was in the Angry Brigade, admitted assaulting
Lisa Christensen, 52, at their home and harassing her.

The former junkie and thief made a series of drunken calls to the pounds
120,000-a-year head of children's services at Norfolk council and her secretary
claiming to have sensitive information about children in her care.

He tried to tip off the press with the details, which he later admitted he
didn't have.

Prescott was jailed for 15 years in 1971 for his role in the anarchist group,
which carried out 25 bombings and attacks on ministers' homes, embassies and
corporations.

Thetford magistrates allowed Prescott, of Mattishall, Norfolk, to stay at
Norwich prison, where he was on remand, so he can continue his alcohol
rehabilitation work.

LOAD-DATE: December 24, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: SLAPPED Lisa Christensen

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                            Copyright 2008 MGN Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              264 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                               The Times (London)

                          December 24, 2008 Wednesday
                                   Edition 2

Terrorists to hang for attack on UK envoy

BYLINE: Rhys Blakely

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 29

LENGTH: 70 words


Mumbai Three Islamic terrorists who tried to assassinate a senior British
diplomat in Bangladesh have been sentenced to death by hanging (Rhys Blakely
writes).

Three people died in the attack in May 2004. At least 50 others were wounded,
including Anwar Choudhury, then the British High Commissioner in Dhaka, when a
grenade was hurled at the official at a Muslim shrine in Sylhet, 190 miles
(300km) northeast of the capital..

LOAD-DATE: December 24, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: TIM


                    Copyright 2008 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              265 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                                  Daily Record

                           December 26, 2008, Friday

YOBS TERROR OF ASSAULT TEACHER;
VANDALS ATTACK THE HOME OF COURT CASE SIR

BYLINE: By Mark McGivern

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 273 words


POLICE are investigating a series of frightening attacks on the home of a
teacher who assaulted two pupils.

Maths teacher Mike Barile, 51, was found guilty of assaulting two boys who
called him a "walking penis" and told him to "f*** off".

But sheriff Charles Macnair sympathised and said the schoolboys had acted
"disgracefully".

Since then, eggs have been thrown at the window of Barile's family home and
superglue squirted into the lock of the front door.

On Monday, a tyre on his disabled wife Moira's car was slashed.

Moira, also a teacher, has been the target of abuse from youngsters.

Now the family are taking steps to sell their Dundee home.

Tayside Police are investigating the latest episode and have issued an appeal
for witnesses. Moira said: "This is the seventh tyre we've had destroyed - they
screw screws into the tyre wall and it deflates.

"We've had our windows pelted with eggs on a couple of occasions and I've had
apples thrown at me from the window of a car that was driving past.

"It's young teenagers who are doing this - it was young girls in the car, with
presumably an older boy driving who shouted abuse at me.

"They wound their windows down and started as soon as they saw me coming out the
house. At first we didn't take action because we didn't think there was any
point.

"But then our daughter contacted Mike's school to let them know it was happening
and the school advised us to log all the incidents with the school where he
taught."

Earlier this month at Dundee Sheriff Court, Barile was found guilty of grabbing
one 15-year-old and threatening him, and pinning another boy against a wall.

He is appealing the decision.

LOAD-DATE: December 26, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: FOUND GUILTY: Barile

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


            Copyright 2008 Scottish Daily Record & Sunday Mail Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              266 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                          The Daily Telegraph (London)

                           December 27, 2008 Saturday

Terrorist attacks feared as Islamist hard-liners take over in Somalia

BYLINE: Mike Pflanz in Nairobi

SECTION: NEWS; International; Pg. 25

LENGTH: 623  words


HARD-LINE Islamists are poised to take control of large areas of southern
Somalia, opening a possible new front in the war on terrorism.

Fears are growing that this lawless area, bordering Kenya and Ethiopia, could
become a stronghold for terrorists with possible links to al-Qaeda.

Somalia's weak official government, the 14th in the past 17 years, depends
entirely on the presence of Ethiopian troops, who are deployed in and around the
capital, Mogadishu.

They invaded in December 2006, mounting an American-supported operation that
overthrew an earlier Islamist regime, styling itself the Islamic Courts Union.

But Ethiopia has pledged to withdraw its troops at the end of December. When
they leave, the official government is likely to fall - or be forced to evacuate
Mogadishu.

An armed group styling itself Al-Shebab is likely to take over. Already, its
fighters are believed to control more than 80 per cent of southern Somalia.
These radical Islamists believe in imposing Sharia law and they recently
approved the stoning of a 13-year-old girl. Rashid Abdi, a Somalia analyst for
the Brussels-based International Crisis Group, said: "They may be forced to
moderate their radical line once they take over just to stay in power.

"But there are those who predict al Shebab turning into some kind of
Frankenstein's monster taken over by, or at least sympathetic to, foreign
elements who have ambitions outside Somalia, to spread radical Islam or mount
terror attacks, in north-eastern Kenya or eastern Ethiopia.''

The group, listed as a terrorist organisation by Washington, has been accused of
sheltering the al-Qaeda cell that bombed the US embassies in Tanzania and Kenya
in 1998 and blew up an Israeli-owned hotel on the Kenyan coast in 2002.

Last month, the US embassy in Nairobi gave warning that it continued to receive
indications of potential terrorist threats aimed at American, Western, and
Kenyan interests in Kenya, including threats of "suicide operations, bombings,
kidnappings, attacks on civil aviation, and attacks on maritime vessels''.

There are fears that al Shebab, whose stronghold is the Somali port of Kismayo
just north of the border with Kenya, could launch an attack on coastal resorts
popular with Western tourists over the holiday season. The United Nations office
in Nairobi has warned staff of a "heightened level of alert along the coast''.
Shebab's chief military commander, Muktar Robow, said earlier this year that he
was ready "to take orders from Sheikh Osama bin Laden''.

His forces were swelled by foreign fighters who answered a call to jihad when
the Ethiopians invaded, in December 2006, to crush the Islamic Courts Union.

That intervention, heavily encouraged by Washington, is widely seen to have
prompted the radicalisation of Somalia's Islamist movement and to have launched
its Iraq-style insurgency which has killed thousands of civilians and forced 1.1
million people into desperate squatter camps.

Two thirds of the population of the capital, Mogadishu, have fled.

This has created a humanitarian disaster where 3.2 million people, half the
population, now needs handouts but international aid staff cannot work and food
shipments must be shepherded by warships to ward off pirates.

"I think it is finally starting to sink in in Washington, two years too late,
that sending in the Ethiopians as a proxy force to deal with the Islamists was
just madness,'' said Andrew McGregor, a terrorism editor at the Jamestown
Foundation, a Right-wing think tank in Washington.

There is some hope that once the Islamists seize control - and few doubt that
they will - they will curb their insurgency.

But there are concerns whether al Shebab can peacefully consolidate their power
once they are in charge.

LOAD-DATE: December 27, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2008 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              267 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                       BBC Monitoring Europe - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                            December 29, 2008 Monday

Turkey condemns terrorist attacks in Iraq, Pakistan, Afghanistan

LENGTH: 172 words


Text of report in English by Turkish semi-official news agency Anatolia

ANKARA (A.A) -Turkish Ministry of Foreign Affairs has condemned recent
terrorists attacks in Iraq, Pakistan and Afghanistan.

The Ministry of Foreign Affairs said in a statement on Sunday, "we are
profoundly sorry that 24 people were killed in terrorists attacks in Baghdad,
Iraq on Saturday and 23 others lost their lives in another attack in Buner,
Pakistan on Sunday."

"It is also saddening to hear that 16 people including 14 school children were
killed when an explosives-laden truck detonated in Host province of
Afghanistan," it said.

The Ministry offered Turkish people's condolences to all who lost their beloved
ones in the attacks.

"Terrorism is a crime against humanity. International cooperation and solidarity
are essential in an influential fight against terrorism. We once again call on
the international community to act together in the fight against terrorism," the
Ministry added.

Source: Anatolia news agency, Ankara, in English 0715 gmt 29 Dec 08

LOAD-DATE: December 29, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2008 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              268 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                    BBC Monitoring Asia Pacific - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                            December 29, 2008 Monday

Philippine police still on heightened alert against possible terror attacks

LENGTH: 329 words


Text of report in English by Philippine newspaper Philippine Daily Inquirer
website on 29 December

[Report by Jocelyn Uy: "Busy days for PNP"]

Manila, Philippines - The Philippine National Police will have their hands full
the rest of the holiday season with its men keeping close watch on insurgents in
various rural fronts as well as making the rounds of crowded urban areas to warn
the public against the dangers of firecrackers.

PNP Director General Jesus Verzosa Sunday announced that the police will remain
on heightened alert until the holidays are over to keep civilians safe from any
attacks that could be carried out by Islamic secessionist Moro fighters and
armed guerrillas of the communist New People's Army.

Several days ago, armed men believed to be members of the Moro Islamic
Liberation Front overran two towns in North Cotabato, wounding several civilian
farmers. A day before Christmas, Moro rebels also raided a town in Sultan
Kudarat, where two civilians were killed, according to the military.

"On account of the previous incidents, the PNP is strengthening its operations
so that we can preclude any incidents," Verzosa said in a statement Sunday.

The police has declared a two-day ceasefire with the NPA, the armed wing of the
Communist Party of the Philippines, on Dec. 31 and Jan. 1. But police will
remain on their toes, Verzosa said.

Firecrackers warning

PNP spokesperson Nicanor Bartolome added that field commanders across the
country have also been ordered to move around congested areas to discourage the
public from using firecrackers and to warn against the indiscriminate firing of
guns during New Year celebrations.

Scores of Filipinos young and old lose limbs or fingers yearly because of the
imprudent use of firecrackers, most of these declared illegal by the government.

The Department of Health recorded more than 800 firecracker-related injuries
during last year's New Year revelries.

Source: Philippine Daily Inquirer website, in English 29 Dec 08

LOAD-DATE: December 29, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2008 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              269 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                            The Independent (London)

                            December 29, 2008 Monday
                                 First Edition

Spare killer shark, says victim's family;
Great white attacks bring terror to Australian beaches

BYLINE: Kathy Marks IN SYDNEY

SECTION: WORLD; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 381 words


On one of the busiest weekends of the year at Australian beaches - and one of
the most frightening - a man was presumed killed off Western Australia by a
shark while he was snorkelling with his son, and in the east, a kayaker in
Sydney was terrorised by a shark that knocked him out of his boat and circled
him until he was rescued by fishermen.

Police continued to search for Brian Guest, 51, yesterday, but found only
shredded pieces of his wetsuit. Mr Guest disappeared on Saturday morning while
diving for crabs with his son, Daniel, off a beach south of Perth. Witnesses saw
a 16ft shark, probably a great white, thrashing around, and a "heap of blood" in
the water.

Residents found 24-year-old Daniel on the beach, white and shaking. "I asked him
if he was all right, but he was too shaken to answer," one witness, Luke Tubbs
said. Police and marine rescue teams manned six boats and a helicopter in the
hunt for Mr Guest. But his family urged authorities not to hunt down the beast
that had apparently taken him, saying he had always had a deep respect for the
ocean and its hazards. Indeed, Mr Guest, a keen fisherman and diver, wrote on an
angler website forum in 2004: "I have always had an understanding with my wife
that if a shark or ocean accident caused my death, then so be it, at least I was
doing what I wanted."

In Sydney, Steve Kulcsar, 29, was recovering from a terrifying encounter with a
shark, also believed to be a great white. He and a friend, Justin Stanger, were
kayaking when a nearby fisherman shouted: "There's a five-metre shark coming
your way." Mr Kulcsar said: "We thought he was trying to stir us up for a laugh,
but moments later, a big fin appeared." Soon after, the shark hit his kayak,
knocking him into the sea.

As Mr Kulcsar trod water, then struggled to get back into his craft, the
predator circled him and Mr Stanger. The fisherman, Glenn Morgan, cut his anchor
cable and went to their rescue. The kayakers rafted up next to the boat, but,
for the next 10 minutes, the shark returned repeatedly to menace them, before
losing interest.

Also on Saturday, a maxi-yacht, Wild Oats XI, collided with a shark off
Tasmania's east coast, during the annual Sydney to Hobart race. But Wild Oats
was first across the finish line, a record fourth consecutive win.

LOAD-DATE: December 28, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: IA


                      Copyright 2008 Independent Print Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                              270 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                                  Morning Star

                            December 29, 2008 Monday

Britain - 'Coward' Brown won't condemn Gaza slaughter;
Anti-war campaigners fiercely condemned Britain's "cowardly" leaders yesterday
for failing to oppose Israel's relentless terror attacks on Palestinians in Gaza

BYLINE: Paul Haste

LENGTH: 522 words


Medics in the besieged territory revealed that more than 280 Palestinians have
so far been killed by US-supplied warplanes in Israeli assaults on mosques, TV
studios, police stations and even a hospital emergency room.

The Middle East's only nuclear-armed state has massed thousands of soldiers and
tanks at the frontier, sparking fears that the siege of Gaza could escalate into
a full-scale invasion.

But Prime Minister Gordon Brown refused to demand that Israel calls off its
attack on the impoverished Palestinian territory, backing Israeli leader Ehud
Olmert's claim that the massacre had been "provoked."

All that Mr Brown could say yesterday was that he was "deeply concerned by
Israel's response to missile strikes from Gaza" and that "peaceful means" were
the only way to a lasting solution.

"I call on Gazan militants to cease all rocket attacks on Israel immediately,"
he said, failing to add a call for Israeli pilots to stop firing missiles into
the streets of one of the most densely populated cities in the world.

Mr Brown's customary refusal to condemn foreign military attacks against the
Palestinian people was contemptuously dismissed by Palestine Solidarity Campaign
chairwoman Betty Hunter as "cowardly."

Britain "has supported the two-year blockade of Gaza because of the
Palestinians' crime of exercising their democratic rights in a manner not to
Israel's liking," she explained, referring to the election of Hamas in 2006.

"Israel is attacking an unarmed, captive civilian population who have been
reduced to beggars. The British government must condemn outright this assault
and immediately demand an end to the siege of Gaza."

Stop the War Coalition spokeswoman Ghada Razuki pointed out that, "even before
these latest murderous attacks, Israel's siege of Gaza had driven Palestinians
into poverty and despair.

"According to the UN, nine out of 10 Gazans are living below the poverty line,
1.5 million people only receive running water once every five days and even the
bakeries have warned they will have to close down because flour supplies are not
getting through," she said.

Oxfam International director Jeremy Hobbs added that Israel's attacks "could
completely destroy essential infrastructure for sewage treatment, water
provision and electricity for hospitals."

Labour MP Jeremy Corbyn, a long-standing supporter of the Palestinian people,
branded Israel's violence "nothing more than wanton aggression against
defenceless people."

In a letter to Foreign Minister David Miliband, Mr Corbyn demanded that the
"very well-armed Israeli state cease its assault on a population living in the
virtual open-air prison of Gaza.

"I hope the British government will state clearly and firmly to Israel that this
is illegal under the Geneva conventions," he insisted.

Israel's killings have prompted tens of thousands of people in Egypt, Syria,
Lebanon and Arab towns inside Israel to take to the streets in protest.

The Palestine Solidarity Campaign, Stop the War and the Muslim Association of
Britain have called an emergency solidarity demonstration for 4pm today at the
Israeli embassy in London's Kensington High Street.

LOAD-DATE: December 29, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


               Copyright 2008 People's Press Printing Society Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                              271 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring South Asia - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                           December 30, 2008 Tuesday

Afghan daily urges security forces to prevent terrorist attacks

LENGTH: 255 words


Text of editorial entitled: "Chilly winter for helpless people, serious
terrorist attacks" by state-owned Afghan newspaper Hewad on 29 December

The enemies of peace and stability of Afghanistan continuously committed crimes
against humanity in Kabul, Kandahar and Khost during the past few days. The
rocket fired by insurgents on a residential house in District No 5 of Kabul
killed three women of a very helpless family. Armed men carried out an attack on
Mawlawi Abdol Qayyum in Kandahar and killed him while he was busy reading
religious books. Also, terrorists carried out a suicide attack in Esmailkhel
District of Khost yesterday, inflicting serious casualties on people, including
small children.

Our helpless compatriots are facing numerous problems this chilly winter and
work hard the whole day to support themselves and their children. Such attacks
by terrorists show that they do not care about the plight of the nation. They
carry out attacks to terrify people and create an atmosphere of fear.

Deadly attacks on innocent people are against the principles and values of the
sacred religion of Islam. These attacks once again showed the fact that Islamic
values are meaningless for terrorists. They pursue their notorious political
objectives and do not refrain from committing any kind of crime to achieve them.
Security forces of the country should review measures taken to prevent terrorist
attacks and ensure adequate security in all cities of the country, including
Kabul.

Source: Hewad, Kabul, in Pashto 29 Dec 08

LOAD-DATE: December 30, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2008 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              272 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                                The Bristol Post

                           December 30, 2008 Tuesday

West optician saves sight of 1,500 in India;
North Somerset optician Annie Hull has just returned from India having helped
1,500 improve their sight just days after the terror attacks in Mumbai.

SECTION: Pg. 17

LENGTH: 394 words


She was part of a team of eight UK eye experts taking part in a two-week tour of
seven villages and three slums.

The team,  representing the charity Vision Aid Overseas, were armed with
thousands of pairs of recycled spectacles donated by people in the UK to dish
out to residents.

"We weren't sure whether the trip was going ahead as we were due to fly out on
the Friday and the Mumbai bombings happened on the Wednesday," Mrs Hull, 52,
said. "But they told us the airport would be one of the safest places to be and
we only had to get a connecting flight to Pune - which is about five hours away
by road."

Mrs Hull, who works at Bell and Stenton Opticians in Yatton High Street, carried
out basic eye examinations on hundreds. Rather than the 30-minute test UK
residents receive, the basic test lasts 10 minutes.  The patient is then fitted
with suitable glasses.

The mum-of-two said: "It is amazing how easily we take spectacles for granted in
the UK. Even if you are short-sighted or long-sighted, it is virtually
impossible to consider your condition a disability.

"In Pune, many people, especially youngsters, are severely disabled by poor
eyesight. There's certain powers which aren't available, so we have to
supplement those. For example, when you had a cataract in this country 20 years
ago, you'd have thick glasses. Now a lens is implanted so you don't need thick
glasses and we don't get those donated."

She said cataracts were "rife" in India, largely because of prolonged UV
exposure.

She also saw a large number of eye injuries, which unfortunately cannot be cured
with glasses alone. "People living in the villages don't have access to health
care," she said. "When we visit, we have 500 to 600 people waiting to see us
every day because they see it as their only chance to get help.

"It makes a massive difference. If somebody can see clearly it enables them to
work and bring money in. If they can't see, they can't work. If a grandparent
can't see properly, then often a child will stay at home to look after them. If
that grandparent can see then the child can go to school.

"People in India get a great deal of comfort from religion. If they can read
their religious reading material then that's massive for them."

Mrs Hull, who has taken part in another 16 projects abroad, said: "I just enjoy
giving something back, helping those people less fortunate."

LOAD-DATE: December 31, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: 25


                      Copyright 2008 Bristol United Press
                              All Rights Reserved

                              273 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                                The Bristol Post

                           December 30, 2008 Tuesday

West optician saves sight of 1,500 in India;
North Somerset optician Annie Hull has just returned from India having helped
1,500 improve their sight just days after the terror attacks in Mumbai.

SECTION: Pg. 17

LENGTH: 394  words


She was part of a team of eight UK eye experts taking part in a two-week tour of
seven villages and three slums.

The team,  representing the charity Vision Aid Overseas, were armed with
thousands of pairs of recycled spectacles donated by people in the UK to dish
out to residents.

"We weren't sure whether the trip was going ahead as we were due to fly out on
the Friday and the Mumbai bombings happened on the Wednesday," Mrs Hull, 52,
said. "But they told us the airport would be one of the safest places to be and
we only had to get a connecting flight to Pune - which is about five hours away
by road."

Mrs Hull, who works at Bell and Stenton Opticians in Yatton High Street, carried
out basic eye examinations on hundreds. Rather than the 30-minute test UK
residents receive, the basic test lasts 10 minutes.  The patient is then fitted
with suitable glasses.

The mum-of-two said: "It is amazing how easily we take spectacles for granted in
the UK. Even if you are short-sighted or long-sighted, it is virtually
impossible to consider your condition a disability.

"In Pune, many people, especially youngsters, are severely disabled by poor
eyesight. There's certain powers which aren't available, so we have to
supplement those. For example, when you had a cataract in this country 20 years
ago, you'd have thick glasses. Now a lens is implanted so you don't need thick
glasses and we don't get those donated."

She said cataracts were "rife" in India, largely because of prolonged UV
exposure.

She also saw a large number of eye injuries, which unfortunately cannot be cured
with glasses alone. "People living in the villages don't have access to health
care," she said. "When we visit, we have 500 to 600 people waiting to see us
every day because they see it as their only chance to get help.

"It makes a massive difference. If somebody can see clearly it enables them to
work and bring money in. If they can't see, they can't work. If a grandparent
can't see properly, then often a child will stay at home to look after them. If
that grandparent can see then the child can go to school.

"People in India get a great deal of comfort from religion. If they can read
their religious reading material then that's massive for them."

Mrs Hull, who has taken part in another 16 projects abroad, said: "I just enjoy
giving something back, helping those people less fortunate."

LOAD-DATE: June 11, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: 25


                      Copyright 2008 Bristol United Press
                              All Rights Reserved

                              274 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                             Paisley Daily Express

                           December 30, 2008 Tuesday
                                  1ST Edition

Letter: Justice done over terror attack

BYLINE: A proud Buddie Glenburn

SECTION: LETTERS; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 326 words


I THINK the whole of Renfrewshire will breathe a sigh of relief to know that
justice has been done in relation to the terror attack on Glasgow Airport.

Countless families have used this airport - which is right on our doorstep - for
years to go on holiday, visit friends and family abroad and make business trips.

Until last summer it was unimaginable for Scots that violence and hatred on this
scale would have been levelled at us.

Now - for once - the courts have served the people of Great Britain well.

They have ensured that evil former RAH doctor Bilal Abdulla is facing life
behind bars for planning the murders of many hundreds of innocent holidaymakers.

In the wake of the attack, Paisley people felt anger and outrage.

But this was swiftly followed by relief that nobody innocent had lost their
life.

Then came the confusion as to why anyone would scheme and plot to launch such a
pointless attack right here.

Evil Abdulla was desperate to kill innocent families on the busiest day of the
year by setting off a massive car bomb.

Apparently, his reasoning behind this was to avenge the deaths of family and
friends at the hands of Shia Muslims in Iraq.

He is supposed to have blamed the British and American Forces for civil war that
broke out in his homeland after Saddam Hussain was taken out in 2003.

But what - you must ask - did such a highly-educated man think he would actually
achieve by injuring, maiming and killing babies, children, mums and dads heading
off on holiday in Scotland?

Too many times we all complain that the courts let us down.

The Baby P tragedy in England, countless rapists and killers freed on bail to
re-offend and murderers who get off on legal technicalities are just some
examples of the courts gone wrong.

In this case justice has certainly been done.

The ordinary people, firemen, policemen and Glasgow Airport staff should be
proud of the part they played in the outcome.

A proud Buddie Glenburn

LOAD-DATE: December 30, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                           Copyright 2008 MGN Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              275 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                               Lincolnshire Echo

                            January 1, 2009 Thursday

Terrorist attacks in mumbai kill 173 people

SECTION: Pg. 14

LENGTH: 188 words


Multiple sites in the Indian city of Mumbai were attacked with bombs and gunfire
in an horrific  terror attack.

The attacks killed 173 people, including at least 22 foreigners and more than
300 injuries were reported.

The terrorists targeted two luxury hotels and other landmarks in the city.

The last gunmen were cleared out of the Taj Mahal Palace Hotel  three days after
the attack  began.

In Britain, pop star Madonna and husband Guy Ritchie were  granted a divorce at
the High Court in London.

The decree nisi was granted just a month after the couple, who have three
children, declared their eight-year marriage was over.

A sworn statement released by the court showed the pop star petitioned for
divorce on the grounds of Ritchie's unreasonable behaviour.

Meanwhile, journalist John Sergeant  pulled out of Strictly Come Dancing, saying
there was a real danger he might win.

The former BBC Chief Political Correspondent had created controversy because the
judges had ridiculed his dancing skills, but his popularity with viewers had
kept him in the contest.

He said it would have been a "joke too far" if he had won the competition.

LOAD-DATE: August 21, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: 90


                        Copyright 2009 Lincolnshire Echo
                              All Rights Reserved

                              276 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                               Lincolnshire Echo

                            January 1, 2009 Thursday

Terrorist attacks in mumbai kill 173 people

SECTION: Pg. 14

LENGTH: 188 words


Multiple sites in the Indian city of Mumbai were attacked with bombs and gunfire
in an horrific  terror attack.

The attacks killed 173 people, including at least 22 foreigners and more than
300 injuries were reported.

The terrorists targeted two luxury hotels and other landmarks in the city.

The last gunmen were cleared out of the Taj Mahal Palace Hotel  three days after
the attack  began.

In Britain, pop star Madonna and husband Guy Ritchie were  granted a divorce at
the High Court in London.

The decree nisi was granted just a month after the couple, who have three
children, declared their eight-year marriage was over.

A sworn statement released by the court showed the pop star petitioned for
divorce on the grounds of Ritchie's unreasonable behaviour.

Meanwhile, journalist John Sergeant  pulled out of Strictly Come Dancing, saying
there was a real danger he might win.

The former BBC Chief Political Correspondent had created controversy because the
judges had ridiculed his dancing skills, but his popularity with viewers had
kept him in the contest.

He said it would have been a "joke too far" if he had won the competition.

LOAD-DATE: January 2, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: 90


                        Copyright 2009 Lincolnshire Echo
                              All Rights Reserved

                              277 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                               Lincolnshire Echo

                            January 1, 2009 Thursday

Terrorist attacks in mumbai kill 173 people

SECTION: Pg. 14

LENGTH: 188  words


Multiple sites in the Indian city of Mumbai were attacked with bombs and gunfire
in an horrific  terror attack.

The attacks killed 173 people, including at least 22 foreigners and more than
300 injuries were reported.

The terrorists targeted two luxury hotels and other landmarks in the city.

The last gunmen were cleared out of the Taj Mahal Palace Hotel  three days after
the attack  began.

In Britain, pop star Madonna and husband Guy Ritchie were  granted a divorce at
the High Court in London.

The decree nisi was granted just a month after the couple, who have three
children, declared their eight-year marriage was over.

A sworn statement released by the court showed the pop star petitioned for
divorce on the grounds of Ritchie's unreasonable behaviour.

Meanwhile, journalist John Sergeant  pulled out of Strictly Come Dancing, saying
there was a real danger he might win.

The former BBC Chief Political Correspondent had created controversy because the
judges had ridiculed his dancing skills, but his popularity with viewers had
kept him in the contest.

He said it would have been a "joke too far" if he had won the competition.

LOAD-DATE: June 11, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: 90


                        Copyright 2009 Lincolnshire Echo
                              All Rights Reserved

                              278 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring South Asia - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                            January 3, 2009 Saturday

Mumbai terror attack accused arrested in north Indian state - agency

LENGTH: 81 words


Text of report published by Indian news agency PTI

Lucknow, 2 January: Uttar Pradesh Anti-Terrorism Squad (ATS) Friday [2 January]
arrested Hakim, an accused in Mumbai terror attack in November who carried a
reward of Rs one lakh on his head.

Hakim, who hails from Azamgarh and is wanted by Delhi Police, was held here in
the northern Indian state of Uttar Pradesh, ATS sources told PTI.

Senior officials of ATS interrogated him.

Source: PTI news agency, New Delhi, in English 2000gmt 02 Jan 09

LOAD-DATE: January 3, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2009 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              279 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring Middle East - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                            January 3, 2009 Saturday

Annual report shows overall rise in "terrorist attacks" in Israel in 2008

LENGTH: 482 words


Text of report in English by privately-owned Israeli daily The Jerusalem Post
website on 2 January

[Report by Jonathan Lis: "Shin Bet: Number of Terror Attacks on Israel Swelled
in 2008"]

Despite six months of relative quiet near the Gaza Strip and in the West Bank,
the overall number of terrorist attacks inside Israel rose last year, according
to data from the Shin Bet Security Services annual summary. In addition, the
number of people who died in attacks has risen significantly.

The data shows that 36 Israelis were killed by terrorist attacks in 2008,
including the firing of rockets into Israel from Gaza, compared to 13 killed in
2007. More than a third of terrorist related casualties last year took place in
Jerusalem. Eight of those were from the shooting at the Mercaz Harav Yeshiva on
March 6.

Both last year and the year before that saw one suicide bombing each. On
February 4, 2008, one Israeli was killed and 28 were injured when a suicide
bomber blew himself up in Dimona. On January 29, 2007, a terrorist detonated an
explosives filled bag in an Eilat bakery, killing three.

Most attacks were defined by the Shin Bet as "popular acts," perpetrated by lone
assailants, who hurled Molotov cocktails, stabbed or assaulted people out of
nationalistic motives. Most perpetrators of such acts were unaffiliated with
terrorist groups, according to the Shin Bet.

East Jerusalemite terrorists increased their impact in 2008 compared to previous
years. Arabs from East Jerusalem were responsible for three vehicular attacks
-two of with a tractor -and a number of shooting attacks. In a number of cases
in which Arabs from East Jerusalem committed acts of terror, Shin Bet found that
the perpetrators had formed independent and local rings, acting without outside
guidance from large groups. The Shin Bet explained that East Jerusalem terrorist
are exploiting their familiarity with the city, as well as their legal status
and ability to move across it, to mount attacks against Israelis.

The number of rockets and mortar shells that Palestinians launched into towns
around Gaza reached 1,800. During the month of August, Israel saw at least 182
mortar rounds fired on its towns from Gaza.

Additionally, the Shin Bet noticed a significant improvement in the ability of
Islamist activists to introduce their ideology into the Palestinian [National]
Authority and Israel. This, according to the service, is reflected in the number
of indictments filed against people described by the Shin Bet as Al-Qa'idah
operatives or global Jihad activists.

Some, according to the data, were in the final stages of carrying out an attack
before they were stopped. The Shin Bet named an alleged plan by East Jerusalem
residents to shoot down a helicopter carrying US President George W. Bush during
his visits to Israel last year as an example.

Source: The Jerusalem Post website, Jerusalem, in English 2 Jan 09

LOAD-DATE: January 3, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2009 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              280 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                                  The Express

                            January 3, 2009 Saturday
                                Scottish Edition

Couple's terror in attack by drunken gang of girl yobs

BYLINE: By Brian Swanson

SECTION: NEWS; 39

LENGTH: 225  words


A COUNCILLOR yesterday spoke of his shock after he and his wife were attacked by
a drunken gang of underage girls on Hogmanay.

The couple's ordeal began after a missile was thrown at their car as they drove
a friend's five-year-old son home through a Dundee housing scheme.

When SNP councillor Bob Duncan and his wife Brenda got out to investigate she
was struck on the hand by a bottle allegedly thrown by one of the teenagers.

Mr Duncan said: "I have seen drunks before but I've never seen anyone as violent
as they were. It was very frightening.

"They all appeared to be under 16 years old and it was because of my concern for
them that I got out of the car and that was when things turned unpleasant. They
started throwing bags of rubbish from waste bins at the car and were swinging
bottles around that appeared to be full.

"One of the bottles hit my wife's hand and left it so badly bruised that she had
to go to hospital".

Mr Duncan said his main concern was that under-aged teenagers had got hold of so
much alcohol.

He said: "It's very frightening as a councillor to see girls in the street in
that state, especially if they are under 16." A Tayside Police spokesman said
three girls, all under 16, had been charged with breach of the peace, vandalism
and assault.

It is likely that they will be the subject of a police report to the Children's
Panel.

LOAD-DATE: January 4, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Councillor Bob Duncan

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2009 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS
                              All Rights Reserved

                              281 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                              Daily Mail (London)

                             January 5, 2009 Monday
                                  SC1 Edition

A matter of honour;
Three unsung heroes of terror attack on Glasgow Airport could see bravery
recognised at last

BYLINE: John Robertson

SECTION: Pg. 33

LENGTH: 433 words


THE unsung heroes of the Glasgow Airport terror attack could belatedly be in
line for official bravery awards, it was revealed yesterday.

The UK Government has confirmed it will look again at the actions of three men
in the wake of legal proceedings against one of those responsible for crashing a
jeep into the building.

Michael Kerr, Stephen Clarkson and Alex McIlveen joined forces with John Smeaton
to help foil the terror attack in June 2007.

After becoming a household name, Mr Smeaton received the Queen's Gallantry Medal
- one of the highest civilian awards for bravery - a year ago. The other three
were snubbed.

Some have since questioned whether the part Mr Smeaton played was as pivotal as
was originally claimed.

The family of Michael Kerr - who broke his leg and was punched in the face as he
went to the aid of a policeman - launched a campaign for the other men to be
rewarded.

They were told what they had done was 'praiseworthy' but didn't reach the
standard required for the honour.

Tom Tennant, the uncle of Mr Kerr's wife Annette, has now received a letter from
the Cabinet Office saying a review will take place.

The letter states: 'It is standard practice to review possible gallantry cases
following the conclusion of legal proceedings, when the full details of any
incident may be clearer.

'The evidence presented at trial will be assessed by experts and the case
reviewed.' Last month Bilal Abdulla was convicted of conspiracy to murder and
sent to jail for 32 years. He carried out the attack with Kafeel Ahmed, a PhD
student from India, who died from the burns he suffered in the attack.

Both Mr Kerr and Mr McIlveen gave evidence at the trial, explaining to the jury
what they saw and did when the terrorists' Jeep smashed into the front of the
airport.

Mr Smeaton said he was pleased that the gallantry award would be reviewed.

He said: 'I've said from day one that I wasn't the only person involved and
everybody should get it. I accepted it with good grace but it would be brilliant
if everyone else received it too.' Gordon Brown presented all four men with the
Outstanding Bravery award at the 2007 Pride of Britain Awards.

Mr McIlveen said: 'I'd be pleased if it happened. I've always said that if

John Smeaton deserved an award then we all did.' The men were among 20 people
honoured shortly after the attack at a reception hosted by First Minister Alex
Salmond in Glasgow's Kelvingrove Museum.

His spokesman said last night: 'We believe there would be a universal welcome
given if everyone involved that day was recognised by the honours system.'

'I wasn't the only person involved'

LOAD-DATE: January 5, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Unrewarded: From the top, Michael Kerr, Stephen Clarkson and Alex
McIlveen foiled the attack, right

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Papers


                   Copyright 2009 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              282 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                  Guardian.com

                                January 5, 2009

India hands Mumbai terror attack evidence to Pakistan

LENGTH: 660 words



HIGHLIGHT: New Delhi increases pressure on Islamabad to bring 'Pakistani
elements' to justice


India handed to ­Islamabad today a dossier of evidence of Pakistani "links" to
the gunmen who led a bloody rampage through Mumbai in November that left more
than 170 dead, in an attempt to mobilise world opinion against its neighbour.

New Delhi's foreign affairs ministry said the terrorists who attacked Mumbai
were linked to "elements" in Pakistan, a charge Islamabad has said is without
proof.

The evidence handed to the Pakistani high commissioner in New Delhi rests
largely on the interrogation of the lone surviving gunman, Mohammed Ajmal Amir
Iman - also known as Mohammed Ajmal Kasab - who hails from the Pakistani Punjab.

He has reportedly told authorities that he and nine other gunmen were Pakistani,
that he was trained in Pakistan and that the people behind the attack are still
there.

Pakistan has said it has no record of Kasab as a Pakistani citizen.

Other evidence included: conversations between the alleged handlers in Pakistan
and the gunmen during the attack; recovered weapons; and data retrieved from
global positioning system data and satellite phones. Islamabad says there is no
proof the attacks were launched from across the border.

New Delhi blamed the three-day November assault on the banned Pakistan-based
militant group Lashkar-e-Taiba, which it says trained and equipped the 10
militants. The gunmen chose high-profile targets such as two five-star hotels,
the main railway station, restaurants popular with foreign tourists and a Jewish
centre.

"This material is linked to elements in Pakistan," a statement from the Indian
foreign ministry said. "It is our expectation that the government of Pakistan
will promptly undertake further investigations in Pakistan and share the results
with us so as to bring the perpetrators to justice."

Pakistan's foreign ministry declined to comment while it reviewed the evidence.
The Pakistani foreign minister, Shah Mahmood Qureshi, said Islamabad would not
hand over any Pakistani nationals to India, noting that the two sides did not
have an extradition treaty.

"But the problem is still there. After all an incident has taken place and we
have to get to the bottom of it," Qureshi said.

At the weekend, the Indian home minister, Palaniappan Chidambaram, said the
Mumbai attack could only have come from "state or state-assisted actors",
hinting at a role by Pakistan's controversial military spy agency, the ISI.

In his first interview after the attack, Chidambaram said: "Somebody who is
familiar with intelligence and who is familiar with commando operations has
directed this operation. And that cannot be a non-state actor."

The new moves are part of an Indian diplomatic offensive to maintain
international pressure on Pakistan, and coincides with the arrival in the
Pakistani capital, Islamabad, of Richard Boucher, the top US diplomat for South
Asia, who is expected to have tough words with the government of President Asif
Ali Zardari.

Boucher's trip comes a few days before the US vice-president-elect, Joe Biden,
lands in Islamabad with a congressional committee intent on securing the
incoming Obama administration's role in the war on terror.

Pakistan redeployed some troops on its Indian border in December - away from its
border with Afghanistan - in effect reducing efforts to gain control of the
lawless tribal region that is a hotbed of al-Qaida activity. Pakistan also
closed off the Khyber Pass, a key supply route for western troops in
Afghanistan, saying it was launching search-and-destroy missions on the
Pakistani border.

On Monday, police found three bullet-riddled bodies in the North Waziristan
tribal region and said they were victims of the Taliban. One was a Pakistani
construction contractor and two others were Afghan men that the Taliban accused
of spying for the US, said local police.

"I don't think Pakistan needs added pressure from India," said Shaukat Qadir, a
retired Pakistani brigadier general turned analyst. "We are already under
pressure and facing terrorism."

LOAD-DATE: January 5, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


      Copyright  2009  Guardian Unlimited (© Guardian Newspapers Limited)
                              All rights reserved

                              283 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                               The Sun (England)

                             January 5, 2009 Monday
                                   Edition 1

TUNNELS OF TERROR;
Hamas go underground as Israel attacks GAZA TOLL NEARS 500

BYLINE: NICK PARKER

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 54 words


HAMAS terrorists took to secret tunnels in a chilling twist to the battle in
Gaza last night.

Their tactic was to hide underground before popping up to attack Israeli troops.

As the number of Palestinian victims in the Israeli assault neared 500, Tony
Blair was involved in frantic "shuttle diplomacy".

Full Story - Pages 6 and 7

LOAD-DATE: January 5, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: SUN


                    Copyright 2009 NEWS GROUP NEWSPAPERS LTD
                              All Rights Reserved

                              284 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                            The Independent (London)

                            January 6, 2009 Tuesday
                                 First Edition

Suicide rates fall after terror attacks;
Britain in brief

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 165 words


SUICIDES The number of suicides fell in England and Wales after the London
bombings on 7 July 2005 researchers have found. A second significant reduction
occurred after a wave of failed terrorist attacks two weeks later. A similar
pattern was seen after the attacks which destroyed the World Trade Centre on 11
September 2001. Psychologists believe traumatic national events such as
terrorist attacks help potentially suicidal people to feel less alone and more a
part of society. Dr Mario Cortina-Borja, from University College London, and
Emad Salib, from the University of Liverpool, analysed daily suicide counts
between 1 January 2001 and 31 December 2005. A small but significant reduction
in suicide rates occurred five days after the 7 July attacks on London's
transport system in which 52 people died. Suicide rates fell again on 21 July,
when bombers targeted London Underground trains and buses but did not detonate
devices. The fall in suicides on both days was about 40 per cent.

LOAD-DATE: January 5, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: IA


                      Copyright 2009 Independent Print Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                              285 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                                  The Express

                           January 7, 2009 Wednesday
                                U.K. 1st Edition

Stop criticising Israel for countering terror attacks

SECTION: LETTERS ; 30

LENGTH: 168  words


I AM surprised at the level of disapproval levelled at the Israelis for their
actions against Hamas in Gaza ("Envoys rush to seal a truce as Israelis push
deep into Gaza", January 6).

It seems the world is ready to ignore the past five years of Palestinian
aggression against Israel, but when that country - entirely understandably -
decides that constant rocket and suicide bomber attacks must be stopped, hands
are thrown up in horror at what is a measured response.

Israel has been under attack, in one form or another, for the past 60 years, and
has only ever retaliated. It has never instigated any kind of aggression.

I think the world should stop criticising and turn its attention to the violence
and bigotry shown by groups such as Hamas, and the Palestinian and Arab peoples.

It is interesting that no Arab country has offered to house, fund or supply the
Palestinian people, preferring them to remain in refugee camps as a propaganda
tool to be used when considered appropriate.

Tony Black, Sawtry, Cambs

LOAD-DATE: January 7, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2009 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS
                              All Rights Reserved

                              286 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                            The Independent (London)

                           January 7, 2009 Wednesday
                                 First Edition

India: Pakistan backed terror attack

BYLINE: Andrew Buncombe IN DELHI and Omar Waraich IN ISLAMABAD

SECTION: WORLD; Pg. 24

LENGTH: 248 words


INDIA'S PRIME Minister has raised the war of words with Pakistan by claiming its
authorities "must have" had a hand in the terror attack on Mumbai that killed
172 people.

In the most outspoken comments yet from an Indian official, Manmohan Singh said
the sophistication of the November attacks meant the terrorists must have had
the support of "official agencies in Pakistan" but stopped short of directly
accusing the Pakistani government. Pakistan's Foreign Ministry accused Mr Singh
of engaging in a "propaganda offensive".

On Monday, India gave Pakistani officials a dossier which it said outlined the
role that Lashkar-e-Toiba militants based in Pakistan had played in plotting and
carrying out the attacks.

In Delhi, Mr Singh said: "Unfortunately, we cannot choose our neighbours.
Countries like Pakistan have in the past encouraged and given sanctuary to
terrorists. There is evidence [in the dossier] to show, given the sophistication
and military precision of the attack, it must have had the support of some
official agencies in Pakistan."

Mr Singh's comments were taken to refer to Pakistan's ISI intelligence agency.
His remarks were angrily denounced by Pakistan's government. "The policy of
casting accusations while investigations are continuing is irresponsible," the
Foreign Ministry said in a strongly-worded statement. "Vilifying Pakistan is
unwarranted and unacceptable. This is a sure way to close avenues of
co-operation in combating this menace."

THE BIG QUESTION, PAGE 32

LOAD-DATE: January 7, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: IA


                      Copyright 2009 Independent Print Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                              287 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                              Liverpool Daily Echo

                           January 7, 2009 Wednesday
                                  1ST Edition

Shop raid was 'fun' for them . .but we cowered in terror;
Shopkeeper tells of race attack ordeal

BYLINE: CHLOE GRIFFITHS & LUKE TRAYNOR

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 416 words


AN ASIAN shopkeeper today described his terror as two racist thugs smashed up
his store.

Parmjit Singh Sahota, 57, spoke out after seeing his attackers jailed.

His ordeal had begun with a tirade of foul-mouthed abuse after he barred two
troublesome customers from his shop in Tower Hill, Kirkby.

Thomas Parry, 34, who is known as Popeye, and his accomplice Rodney Hancock, 37,
caused havoc in the Costcutter shop on Loweswater Way.

Prosecutor Ben Morris told how they threatened to burn down his shop and warned
they knew where he lived.

Parry, who has 175 previous convictions, shouted insults including "P*** b*****"
and told him to: "Go back to your own country. You have no right to live here or
work here."

The defendants later used a metal bar to leave a trail of destruction in the
store as they swigged lager and shouted insults.

Today, Mr Sahota said he was saddened by the racist threats directed at him and
his 28-year-old son, Sandeep.

He added: "I've been here for 17 years and this area is like my family.

"It was so scary, they had a six-foot metal bat and were hitting the door with
it as we covered ourselves up behind it.

"It was fun for them, danger us. It went on for ten minutes and they held me by
the neck and tried to kick me in the belly."

Liverpool crown court heard that Parry and Hancock had returned to Costcutter
two days after the initial racial abuse on June 10.

Mr Morris said: "What followed was a nasty and unpleasant confrontation which
resulted in Mr Sahota being the subject of violence and threats of violence."

Parry, of St Paul's Close, Kirkby, again shouted racial insults, while Hancock
used a metal bar to smash up the shop.

He used the weapon with such force he damaged a metal door.

Hancock then ripped off his shirt and challenged Mr Sahota and Sandeep to a
fight, branding them cowards when they refused.

Both men admitted racially aggravated harassment on the day of their trial,
while Hancock, of Hawksmoor Road, Kirkby, also pleaded guilty to racially
aggravated criminal damage.

They were both jailed for 20 months yesterday.

Judge Adrian Lyon said: "I regard these as serious matters involving incidences
on successive days involving a shopkeeper who had been in the area for many
years.

"He was undoubtedly very upset by your behaviour on these occasions."

Peter Killen, defending former drug addict Parry, said his client had a heart
attack in prison since his arrest.

Both men said they were now ashamed of their actions.

LOAD-DATE: January 7, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:  ORDEAL: Parmjit Singh Sahota, 57, was attacked in his shop

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


               Copyright 2009 The Liverpool Daily Post & Echo Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                              288 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                          The Daily Telegraph (London)

                           January 10, 2009 Saturday

India to restrict live TV coverage of terror attacks

BYLINE: Dean Nelson

SECTION: NEWS; International; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 182  words


INDIAN television may have helped the Mumbai terrorists in their attacks on
hotel guests and army commandos by revealing their positions live on air.

According to government officials, the disclosures by news channels desperate to
beat their rivals with exclusive reports put the rescue operation at risk and
endangered further the lives of the guests they were trying to save.

Ministers will introduce rules to rein in broadcasters covering live terrorist
incidents to safeguard military operations.

India's ruthlessly competitive news channels were heavily criticised for their
coverage of the biggest terrorist attack in the country's history in November
last year.

There was particular shock that channels disclosed the room numbers of guests
trapped in of the hotels that were under attack.

All channels also showed live pictures of commandos landing on the roof of
Nariman House, where gunmen killed the rabbi of a Jewish welfare group, his wife
and several guests.

A dedicated officer will have discretionary powers to stop live television
coverage and insist that it is shown after

a delay.

LOAD-DATE: January 10, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2009 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              289 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                                  Daily Record

                           January 10, 2009, Saturday

THE PRIDE OF SCOTLAND;
AIRPORT TERROR ATTACK COPS HONOURED

BYLINE: By Donna Watson

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 21

LENGTH: 378 words


SCOTLAND'S biggest police force yesterday honoured officers who helped thwart
the terror attack on Glasgow Airport.

Awards were presented to 39 cops and six departments of Strathclyde Police for
their work during and after the blast.

And Chief Constable Stephen House insisted the incident had made his team
"stronger as a force".

The ceremony recognised those involved in Operation Seagram, which brought
terrorist Bilal Abdulla to justice.

House said: "I am confident that we have learned a lot from the events of June
30, 2007 and are now stronger as a force and better placed to deal with anything
of a similarly challenging nature."

Among those honoured at the ceremony was PC Stewart Ferguson, who was central to
one of the most enduring images of the attack.

Off-duty on the day of the attack, he was at the airport to collect his parents
when he attempted to hose down burning terrorist Kafeel Ahmed.

He received the Chief Constable's Very High Commendation.

He said: "I look at the photo of myself using the fire extinguisher and can
barely remember it happening.

"None of us believe ourselves to be heroes. It is what we are trained to do.

"As police, we are automatically going to go towards something like this.

"I still believe the members of the public who got involved were the real
heroes."

The ceremony went ahead at Glasgow City Chambers following the conviction of
Iraqi doctor Abdulla last month.

He and co-conspirator Kafeel Ahmed plotted to bring carnage to the terminal on
its busiest day of the year on June 30, 2007.

But the only victim was Ahmed, who died four weeks after setting himself alight.

Sergeant Torquil Campbell was on duty at the airport that day and wrestled Ahmed
to the ground.

Campbell, who has since retired, was also honoured. He said: "This is a very
proud day. I was only a few months from my retirement at the time but that makes
you no less ready to get involved."

Assistant Chief Constable Campbell Corrigan, who headed the probe, was also
recognised and said the event had changed policing.

He said: "These investigations are no longer about single people carrying out
terrorist atrocities. There are global and finance aspects.

"We've now got the capacity that takes account of all that."

'We are not heroes. It is what we are trained to do'

LOAD-DATE: January 10, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: SPECIAL FORCE: Sergeant Torquil Campbell, Chief Constable Stephen House
and PC Stewart Ferguson PA
ICONIC: PC Stewart Ferguson

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


            Copyright 2009 Scottish Daily Record & Sunday Mail Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              290 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                             Paisley Daily Express

                           January 10, 2009 Saturday
                                  1ST Edition

AIRPORT HERO COPS' AWARDS IN SAFE HANDS!;
Terrorist attack officers are honoured

BYLINE: LYNN JOLLY

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 853 words


A HERO cop who was first on the scene during the terror attack on Glasgow
Airport revealed yesterday he is now working there as a SAFETY officer.

Sergeant Torquil Campbell was among 39 Strathclyde Police officers who were
honoured at a special ceremony for the role they played in responding to the
terror attack on June 30, 2007.

He told the Paisley Daily Express he retired early in March last year after 30
years' service and had just one weekend off before starting work at the airport
as a duty safety officer.

Mr Campbell, 50, from Renfrew, said: "I only had one weekend off before I
started my new job! Now I always keep an eye out for anything that might happen,
although my new job is more sedate."

Last month Iraqi Dr Bilal Abdulla, who worked at Paisley's Royal Alexandra
Hospital, was jailed for at least 32 years at Woolwich Crown Court after he was
found guilty of conspiracy to murder and conspiracy to cause explosions.

Buddies were stunned when terror came to our doorstep as Abdulla, 29, and his
accomplice Kafeel Ahmed, 28, tried to spread panic and fear across Britain by
staging car bomb attacks in June last year.

They transformed an ordinary suburban home in the quiet Renfrewshire village of
Houston into a bomb factory, where they made a number of potentially lethal
devices.

Car bombs were left outside a nightclub and in a street in London's West End on
June 29 but these failed to detonate.

A day later, they drove a burning Jeep filled with gas canisters into the main
terminal at Glasgow Airport.

The car ended up jammed in the terminal's entrance and burned furiously but did
not explode.

Ahmed, 28, was engulfed by flames during the attack and died from his injuries a
month later.

Ahead of the prestigious ceremony at Glasgow City Chambers, Mr Campbell,
recalled: "That day was just a normal day, and I had been working since 10am.
When it happened I quickly rallied my troops and, within minutes, it was all
over.

"I was the first police officer on the scene and I was 50 yards away from the
vehicle when it crashed into the airport building. I quickly realised we had a
problem and called for assistance. The incident itself was very quick, and my
officers were on the scene very quickly.

"I couldn't see anybody in the vehicle because it was a blazing inferno. Bilal
appeared from the passenger's side. He started running towards me and then
looked back, and at that point I realised he was looking to see where the driver
was.

"Bilal charged towards me with the intention of keeping me away from the vehicle
because it hadn't exploded - which it never did, thankfully."

Mr Campbell received a Very High Commendation from the Force and was joined at
the ceremony by his wife Sandra, 47, and children Colin, 19, and Ruth, 22.

He added: "I am delighted to receive the award on behalf of myself, my family
and all the other police officers involved."

Sandra said on the day of the attack she feared what state her beloved husband
would return home in.

"I sat and held my breath to see what condition he would be in when he came
home. But I knew he was well-supported by Strathclyde Police," she said.

When Abdulla ran back towards the burning Jeep Cherokee driver Ahmed - whose
body was on fire - emerged and PC Stewart Ferguson put the flames on his skin
out with a fire extinguisher.

PC Ferguson, who is from Paisley, has almost 25 years' service and also received
a Very High Commendation.

PC Ferguson, 41, was only at the airport to collect his parents at arrivals and
explained: "I nipped along to speak to Sergeant Campbell, who was on duty at the
front of the airport. We had a quick chinwag and then it all just happened.

"It initially seemed to me to be a road accident or a road rage incident. I was
off-duty and could easily have walked away, but your instincts as a police
officer kick in. It's an instinctive thing.

"The driver was fully engulfed in flames and was lying on his back. I got a
large water fire extinguisher and proceeded to put him out.

But I wasn't prepared for his second wind. He actually got to his feet and tried
to exchange blows."

Both men were full of praise for ordinary members of the public, who put
themselves at serious risk on the day to save the lives of hundreds of
holidaymakers, travellers and airport staff.

Assistant Chief Constable Campbell Corrigan said: "The awards ceremony is a
brilliant day for us and it is nice to be at the point where we are celebrating
our success.

"Basically, we did a great job on the day and the bad people are now away to
jail. It makes me proud that our officers had a sense of calm on the day and
just got on with their jobs. Everybody - from the fire service to the airport
authorities - dealt with the situation well."

June 30, 2007 was the airport's busiest day of the year and the Jeep filled with
gas canisters would have caused untold carnage if it had exploded.

Chief Constable Stephen House said: "I am confident that we have learned a lot
from the events of that day and are now stronger as a Force and better placed to
deal with of a similarly challenging nature."

LOAD-DATE: January 10, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:  TOP COPS: Torquil Campbell, left, Chief Constable Stephen House and
Stewart Ferguson, right, at the awards ceremony

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                           Copyright 2009 MGN Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              291 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                          The Daily Telegraph (London)

                            January 12, 2009 Monday

Carey: terrorist attacks are used as weapon against religion

BYLINE: Martin Beckford Religious Affairs Correspondent

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 420  words


ATHEISTS have used the terrorist outrages of September 11 as an excuse to attack
all religions, according to the former Archbishop of Canterbury.

Lord Carey said the attacks by Muslim fanatics marked the start of a new war
waged by "aggressive and strident'' writers such as Professor Richard Dawkins.

He claimed the "unpleasant and reactionary'' tone of those who dismiss all
faiths has widened the divide between religion and science, creating a "dialogue
of the deaf''. However Lord Carey conceded that atheists are right to criticise
the "pseudo-science'' of creationism.

He claimed that Christians are playing into the hands of anti-religion
campaigners by defending biblical accounts of the Earth's history, and praised
Charles Darwin, the pioneer of evolutionary theory, as "one of the greatest
human beings of all time''.

His comments came as Britain's first atheist advertising campaign began, with
800 buses taking to the streets carrying posters declaring: "There's probably no
God. Now stop worrying and enjoy your life.''

In a speech to the University of Gloucestershire, Lord Carey said: "September
11th 2001, is a key date in modern history.

"It is usually taken to represent a watershed between West and Islam, and this
is true. But it is also the date that symbolises a growing split between faith
and reason, illustrated in the hostility to all religions by Richard Dawkins and
others.

"The attacks on the World Trade Center, Pentagon and the White House woke us all
up to a resurgent and militant Islam which remains an active presence seven
years on. For some writers, such events are illustrations of the evils of
religion - all religions.''

He added: "The result is a widening gap between religion and science; an
unwillingness to engage, concluding in a dialogue of the deaf.''

However the former archbishop admitted that he could "sympathise to a degree''
with attacks by atheists on creationism, which teaches that the world was made
by God in days just a few thousand years ago, and intelligent design, which
holds that the universe is so complex it must have been made by someone.

He said: "Creationism is the fruit of a fundamentalist approach to scripture,
ignoring scholarship and critical learning, and confusing different
understandings of truth.

"The argument for intelligent design may have some appeal for many Christians
but is ultimately a negation of what science is about, which is to make a
hypothesis from what is observable and then conduct experiments in a constant
process of testing.''

LOAD-DATE: January 12, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2009 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              292 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring South Asia - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                            January 13, 2009 Tuesday

India: Mumbai terror attacks case witness goes missing

LENGTH: 189 words


Text of report by Indian news agency PTI

Mumbai, 13 January [Tuesday]: One of the witnesses in the Mumbai terror attacks
case, who saw the terrorists land on the city's shores, has gone missing, police
said on Tuesday. Anita Uddaiya, who saw the ten terrorists arrive at the
Fisherman's Colony in Cuffe Parade on November 26, has been missing since
January 11.

Police said they have launched a manhunt for the missing witness, who had been
taken to the J J Hospital earlier to identify the bodies of the nine killed
terrorists. The missing persons complaint was lodged by Uddaiya's daughter after
she went missing from her house in the Cuffe Parade's Fisherman's Colony. The
Crime Branch of the city police, which is the investigating agency in the
November 26 terror attacks, has also launched a probe into the incident.

"We are also probing the disappearance of the lady since she is a witness in the
case," Joint Commissioner of Police (Crime) Rakesh Maria told PTI.

However, Uddaiya was not a key witness in the trial of arrested terrorist
Mohammed Ajmal Amir Kasab, he said.

Source: PTI news agency, New Delhi, in English 0745gmt 13 Jan 09

LOAD-DATE: January 13, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2009 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              293 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                            Birmingham Evening Mail

                           January 14, 2009 Wednesday
                                 First Edition

Fear of Brum terror attacks;
GAZA: Conflict could act as 'recruiting sergeant', say councilors

BYLINE: Neil Elkes

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 371 words


THE Middle East conflict could act as a "recruiting sergeant" for extremists and
future terrorists in Birmingham, city councillors fear.

The shock claim was made in a statement put to the council condemning the war in
Gaza and calling for the government to allow a local authority boycott of
Israelisupporting companies.

City leaders agreed to hold a debate on Gaza at the start of their monthly
council meeting - but hopes that a joint statement could be signed were dashed
as the ruling Tory-Liberal Democrat coalition and opposition Labour groups
failed to agree on wording.

More than 200 anti-Israel protesters gathered in Victoria Square yesterday to
demand a ceasefire and the withdrawal of Israeli forces from Gaza.

The crowd chanted and cheered as a string of speakers, mainly innercity Muslim
councillors, called for strong action against Israel by the British government
and the European Union.

A statement later put to the council, signed by Respect's Salma Yaqoob, Liberal
Democrat Tariq Khan, Labour's Tahir Ali and Conservative James Hutchings,
deplored the humanitarian crisis.

It also warned: "The war in the Middle East has the potential to act as a
recruiting sergeant in Birmingham and elsewhere for those who seek to exploit
the plight of Palestinians and increase the risk to Birminghamcitizens of
terrorist attacks."

The statement called for the council to lobby government to allow Birmingham, as
the largest local authority in Europe, to boycott goods and services from
countries, such as Israel, they say flout UN resolutions.

It received support from the Labour, Respect and Liberal Democrat benches, all
of which have a significant number of Muslim councillors, but the Conservative
side was less keen, with a handful of Tories walking out.

Coun Yaqoob (Respect, Sparkbrook) said: "The time for simple handwringing and
ineffectual statements is over, it is time for action."

But some of the speakers drew a rebuke from the Conservative cabinet member
responsible for community relations, Coun Alan Rudge (Sutton Vesey). "This
situation must not be allowed to damage the good work which has been done," he
said.

Meanwhile, Gordon Brown will talk to Palestinian president Mahmood Abbas today.

LOAD-DATE: January 14, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


               Copyright 2009 Midland Independent Newspapers plc
                              All Rights Reserved

                              294 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                            Birmingham Evening Mail

                           January 14, 2009 Wednesday
                                 Second Edition

Councillors' terrorist attack fears

BYLINE: Neil Elkes

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 189 words


THE Middle East conflict could act as a "recruiting sergeant" for extremists and
future terrorists in Birmingham, city councillors fear.

The claim was made in a statement to the council condemning the war in Gaza and
calling for the government to allow a local authority boycott of
Israeli-supporting firms.

City leaders agreed to hold a debate on Gaza at the start of their monthly
council meeting - but hopes that a joint statement could be signed were dashed
as the ruling Tory-Liberal Democrat coalition and opposition Labour groups
failed to agree on wording.

More than 200 anti-Israel protesters gathered in Victoria Square yesterday to
demand a ceasefire and the withdrawal of Israeli forces from Gaza.

A statement put to the council, signed by Respect's Salma Yaqoob, Lib Dem Tariq
Khan, Labour's Tahir Ali and Conservative James Hutchings, deplored the
humanitarian crisis.

It also warned: "The war in the Middle East has the potential to act as a
recruiting sergeant in Birmingham and elsewhere for those who seek to exploit
the plight of Palestinians and increase the risk to Birmingham citizens of
terrorist attacks."

LOAD-DATE: January 14, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


               Copyright 2009 Midland Independent Newspapers plc
                              All Rights Reserved

                              295 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                            Nottingham Evening Post

                           January 14, 2009 Wednesday

Advice for businesses about terror attacks

SECTION: Pg. 10

LENGTH: 157 words


Businesses are being offered advice on how to deal with a terror attack.

Project Argus, a National Counter Terrorism Security Office initiative will take
businesses through a simulated terrorist incident to find out the best way of
responding.

The first workshop  takes place on Wednesday and Notts police are urging city
pubs, bars and restaurants to take part.

Counter terrorism security advisor Martin Graves said it was  important
businesses were prepared for a terrorist attack.

"While it is something we hope we never experience, having the knowledge and
steps in place means managers know what action to take to ensure business
continuity."

Project Argus highlights the importance of being prepared and having plans in
place to safeguard staff and customers.

Next week's  workshop is  at 2pm at the Guild Hall in Burton Street, with the
second taking place on March 11.

To book call 0115 915 4781 or email emergency.planning@nottinghamcity.gov.uk

LOAD-DATE: August 21, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: 48


                     Copyright 2009 Nottingham Evening Post
                              All Rights Reserved

                              296 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                            Nottingham Evening Post

                           January 14, 2009 Wednesday

Advice for businesses about terror attacks

SECTION: Pg. 10

LENGTH: 157  words


Businesses are being offered advice on how to deal with a terror attack.

Project Argus, a National Counter Terrorism Security Office initiative will take
businesses through a simulated terrorist incident to find out the best way of
responding.

The first workshop  takes place on Wednesday and Notts police are urging city
pubs, bars and restaurants to take part.

Counter terrorism security advisor Martin Graves said it was  important
businesses were prepared for a terrorist attack.

"While it is something we hope we never experience, having the knowledge and
steps in place means managers know what action to take to ensure business
continuity."

Project Argus highlights the importance of being prepared and having plans in
place to safeguard staff and customers.

Next week's  workshop is  at 2pm at the Guild Hall in Burton Street, with the
second taking place on March 11.

To book call 0115 915 4781 or email emergency.planning@nottinghamcity.gov.uk

LOAD-DATE: June 11, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: 48


                     Copyright 2009 Nottingham Evening Post
                              All Rights Reserved

                              297 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                                 Reigate Mirror

                                January 15, 2009

Public asked to help stop terror attacks

SECTION: Pg. 5

LENGTH: 131 words


The 2012 Olympics in London could potentially make Gatwick Airport a key target
for terrorists, a counter-terrorism officer has warned.

During a police panel meeting in St Wilfrid's Church, Horley Row, Horley, Chris
Hardstone, of Gatwick's counter-terrorism team, said information from residents
was vital in preventing an attack.

Mr Hardstone told audience members at the meeting on Thursday last week that an
attack was likely to come from a man powered surface-to-air missile.

"You just have to look around the area we live and some of the open spaces
around Rusper and Capel. Anybody could get into one of those fields.

"The likelihood of a member of the public spotting something is much higher than
the police.

"If you see any military equipment in fields around Gatwick, we want to know."

LOAD-DATE: July 22, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: 311


                    Copyright 2009 Northcliffe Media Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              298 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                                 Reigate Mirror

                                January 15, 2009

Public asked to help stop terror attacks

SECTION: Pg. 5

LENGTH: 131 words


The 2012 Olympics in London could potentially make Gatwick Airport a key target
for terrorists, a counter-terrorism officer has warned.

During a police panel meeting in St Wilfrid's Church, Horley Row, Horley, Chris
Hardstone, of Gatwick's counter-terrorism team, said information from residents
was vital in preventing an attack.

Mr Hardstone told audience members at the meeting on Thursday last week that an
attack was likely to come from a man powered surface-to-air missile.

"You just have to look around the area we live and some of the open spaces
around Rusper and Capel. Anybody could get into one of those fields.

"The likelihood of a member of the public spotting something is much higher than
the police.

"If you see any military equipment in fields around Gatwick, we want to know."

LOAD-DATE: August 21, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: 311


                    Copyright 2009 Northcliffe Media Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              299 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                            Birmingham Evening Mail

                            January 16, 2009 Friday
                                 First Edition

'Our family could have been killed';
ARSON ATTACK: Mum relives terror of house set alight during the night

BYLINE: Mark Cowan

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 21

LENGTH: 244 words


A DISTRAUGHT mum today told how she and her family were "lucky to be alive"

after callous arsonists gutted their Birmingham home.

Cheryl Foster had to wrap wet towels around the heads of her two young children,
Rio, aged nine and 13-year-old Helen, so they could escape the thick smoke
filling their semi as the blaze took hold downstairs.

Police believe petrol was used to start the fire at the home in the Greenway,
Sutton Coldfield, at about 4.55am on New Year's Day.

Hairdresser Cheryl said: "I don't know what woke me but I noticed a bright light
outside and thought something was going on up the road. I looked outside and
realised the garage was on fire.

"By that time the smoke was really bad, you could feel it burning the back of
your throat. I can't express the fear that goes through your mind."

Mum-of-four Cheryl, 41, said the family's Golden Retriever Daisy and Cavalier
King Charles Ginnie died following the blaze.

She and her 46-year-old husband Michael, who works for West Midlands Ambulance
Service, said they had no idea who or what was behind the attack.

The family have been living in a hotel since the fire while their damaged home
was repaired.

Appealing for help to trace the culprits, she added: "What's so upsetting is
that my children were in bed asleep in the safety of their own home when
somebody does something like this."

Anyone with information call Sutton Coldfield CID on 0121 322 6131 or
Crimestoppers on 0800 555 111.

LOAD-DATE: January 16, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:  Michael and Cheryl Foster survey the wreckage of their fire-ravaged
city home. TR140109FIRE-1

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


               Copyright 2009 Midland Independent Newspapers plc
                              All Rights Reserved

                              300 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                               Chester Chronicle

                                January 16, 2009
                                 County Edition

Fears of terror attack

BYLINE: Allison Dickinson

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 30

LENGTH: 292 words


TERRORISM, organised crime and drug dealers are among the main concerns
expressed by the public in a survey carried out by Cheshire Police Authority.
Residents have also called on police to focus on dealing with domestic violence,
child abuse, detecting crime, arresting offenders and protecting witnesses.

Moira Chapman, lead Police Authority member for engagement, said: "The authority
has consulted with more than 2,500 people across Cheshire about their priorities
for policing using a combination of surveys, touch screen kiosks in post
offices, focus groups and a conference for young people.

"We were pleased to see that issues such as tackling anti-social behaviour and
focusing on burglary and vehicle crime are not as high on the list as they have
been in previous years and is testimony to the investment the authority has made
in neighbourhood policing."

The survey showed:

67% of people felt that Cheshire Constabulary do an excellent or good job

68% were very or fairly satisfied that the Constabulary are easy to contact

56% were very or fairly satisfied that the police had responded to their call or
enquiry

Cllr Chapman added: "We are delighted the people of Cheshire are becoming more
satisfied with the police services they receive and the authority will be
working with the Constabulary to ensure that this improves and helps to make the
people of Cheshire safe and feel safer."

Following last year's 17% increase in council tax - pounds 2.61 per week for a
Band D property - the rise has been limited to a maximum of 3%this year, which
equates to an extra 8p per week for Band D.

However, the force is facing a budget gap of pounds 1m due to a fall in interest
rates, an amount that would normally have gained on balances.

LOAD-DATE: January 16, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                           Copyright 2009 MGN Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              301 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                      Coventry Evening Telegraph (England)

                            January 16, 2009 Friday
                                Nuneaton Edition

Chilling aftermath of terrorist attack;
Art

BYLINE: JULIE CHAMBERLAIN

SECTION: FEATURES; Pg. 49

LENGTH: 479 words


FIRST appearances are deceptive in a fasciinat--ing Warwickshire exhibition of
photographs from Colombia.

Take the works off Maria Elvira Escallon.. They appear seductively colourful,
aquama--rines and russet wals and floors, a phone visible on one of them. There
are smears and hand, prints on some, marks left by rubber soles on the floor on
another.

It looked like someone trying to create beauty out of dirt, but the explanation
is chilling. Es-caloin took the pictures in the aftermath of a terrorist bomb in
a club in Bogotta which killed 36 and wounded 170. She looked after the art
collection in the club and found the ' marks when she returned after the
bombing.

The: work can be seen at Rugt by Art Gallery and Museum and the exhibition also
includes Vampires of The Savan--nah by Maria Isabel Ruedas. The black and white
photo features: gothic girls looking suit-ably grim faced among the exotic
public gardens of Bogota.

In contrast, Oscar Munoz's works are less sinister than they first appear. Large
colourful photos show people holding black and white images. You wonder if they
are dead relatives, but it turns out they are images from archives taken by
street photographers, or from family albums.

Juan Pablo Echeverri has taken himself as the subject taking hundreds of self
portraits in photo booths over years, altering his hair length, colour, facial
expression and adopting comedy moustaches. They re light and amusing, especially
when you read Colombian photo booths actually have someone in them taking the
pictures.

And Milena Bonilla has travelled on public buses, sewing up ripped seats and
creating a stitched map of her route.

These are just some of the artists whose work is on show in an unusual and
enlightening exhibition which is definitely worth a visit.

Brush Strokes

FORGIVE is the latest in the Thursday Flickers films being shown at Leamington
Spa Art Gallery & Museum on T hursday. The film was part of the Screen Rootz
project and devised and produced by Coventry-based Frontline Audiio Visual.
Screen Rootz encourages film makers from the area to produce work, and celebrate
black creativity. The free event starts at 6.30pm

COVENTRY'S two newest galleries have exhibitions starting this week. Corinna
Spencers paintings The State She's In can be seen at the Fishbone in Longford as
well as Kevin Nunn's works called Fox Versus Hare (The art of stalking). At The
Lock Gallery at the Canal Basin photographer John Coles has brought together
pictures from the 2-tone era as the music celebrates its 30th anniversary.

EMANCIPATION day is being celebrated at the Mead Gallery at Warwick University
next Saturday.

Current exhibiting artists Bob and Roberta Smith, the working name for one man,
is inviting people to join him making 'your own damn art'. The event takes place
from noon. Places are free but must be booked in advance on 024 7652 4524.

LOAD-DATE: January 16, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PORTRAITS... Juan Pablo Echeverri's photo booth images. The artist has
had taken hundreds of pictures taken of himself altering his hair length,
colour, facial expression and adopting various comdy moustaches; GOTHIC...
Vampires in the Savannah by MarIa Isabel Rueda (above) and (right) Oscar Munoz's
Archive By Contact

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2009 Coventry Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              302 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring Middle East - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                            January 19, 2009 Monday

Ethiopian police says city bus station blast not a terrorist attack

LENGTH: 176 words


Text of report in English by Paris-based Sudanese newspaper Sudan Tribune
website on 17 January

[Report by Tesfa-alem Tekle: "Blast of Ethiopian Capital was "not a Terror
Attack" -Police"]

The Addis Ababa Federal police on Saturday said that the blast that wounded 33
people outside the Addis Ababa bus station on Thursday morning is not related
with terrorist attack.

"It absolutely is not a terrorist attack" Federal police commander Demsash Hailu
told Sudan Tribune. "A passenger was carrying a single hand grenade that
accidentally went off wounding 33 people including 9 seriously" he added.

It is not clear if the person holding the weapon was among the wounded. But
Demsash says police is following up the incident

"Police is under investigation on the incident and on why a passenger was
carrying a hand grenade."

Ethiopia has repeatedly accused Arch-foe Eritrea for a number of civilian
targeted bomb attacks inside and outside the capital, Addis Ababa, to which
Eritrea denies to all accusations.

Source: Sudan Tribune website, Paris in English 17 Jan 09

LOAD-DATE: January 19, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2009 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              303 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                              Warrington Guardian

                            January 19, 2009 Monday

Terror attacks can "lower suicide" rates according to doctor

BYLINE: Joanna Lean

SECTION: LATEST NEWS (WARR NEWS)

LENGTH: 311 words


A 'BLITZ' spirit that forms following tragic events such as terrorist attacks
can lower the suicide rate, according to a Warrington phsychiatrist.

Dr Emad Salib, a consultant psychiatrist at the 5 Boroughs Partnership Trust,
found a small but significant reduction in daily suicide rates following the
London bombs on July 7, 2005.

Working with Dr Mario Cortina-Borja from University College, London, the pair
published their findings in the British Journal of Psychiatry.

They also discovered a second reduction following the July 21 attempts on
London.

On both days, the reduction in the number of suicides stood at 40 per cent;
similar to the rate following the 9/11 attacks on America.

Dr Salib, who is also an honorary senior lecturer at Liverpool University, said:
"I believe that suicide terrorism may be actually losing its 'shock value'.

"So these vulnerable misguided young men who are radicalised by ignorant
preachers of hate are simply as human bombs, dying and killing in vain seeking a
bizarre, imaginary delusional martyrdom".

He and Dr Cortina-Borja had thought the attacks in England would have prompted
an even sharper fall in suicide rates because they were on British soil.

But the Government's efforts in preparing people for an attack, past bombings
such as those by the IRA and more controlled media coverage all reduced the
emotional impact of the terrorist attacks, said Dr Salib.

"Any tragedy on a national scale such as a natural disaster, war or bombing,
tends to bring people together in a greater social cohesion," said Dr Salib.

"Traumatic national events such as these help potentially suicidal people to
feel less isolated and more part of society."

The present credit crunch may have a similar impact on suicide rates, he said.

"Interestingly, Gordon Brown has already referred to the need for 'Blitz spirit'
facing the current economic downturn."

LOAD-DATE: July 18, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2009 NewsQuest Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              304 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                          Press Association Mediapoint

                      January 20, 2009 Tuesday 4:30 PM BST

MUMBAI ATTACKS TRIGGER UK TERROR RESPONSE

BYLINE: Joe Churcher, Press Association Political Correspondent

SECTION: HOME NEWS

LENGTH: 331 words


Efforts to secure British hotels against terror attacks have been speeded up in
the wake of the deadly Mumbai siege last year, Home Secretary Jacqui Smith said
today.

Security guidance had been issued and training given, she told MPs in response
to fears hotel guests and shoppers in London were being left vulnerable from
possible atrocities here.

Labour MP Keith Vaz, chairing a meeting of the Commons home affairs committee,
said he had recently visited the Indian city and seen the ``quite serious
searches'' carried out there.

``Yet when I went to a hotel on Park Lane yesterday, there were no such
searches. Does it worry you that in those areas that might be subject to
terrorist attack, those private sector organisations are not really prepared?''
he asked the Home Secretary.

``We have had pictures of the January sales where hundreds, thousands of people
were going to some of our biggest shops in Oxford Street. Is it not a worry to
you that there are no searches going on?''

Ms Smith told him: ``The protection of this country from potential terrorist
attack to that extent is always a worry for any home secretary.

``I think the Mumbai attacks...have caused us to consider the protective
security arrangements that we have in place. A lot of detailed work has been and
will go on in relation to that.

``There is always a balance between enabling people to go about their lives,
free, in this country - which is what terrorists are seeking to undermine and
attack - and having in place appropriate protective security measures - not all
of which are instantly visible to people when they are out shopping or in
hotels.

``We have taken the opportunity of the review that we have done to accelerate
the publication of protective security guidance to both hotels and hotel
security professionals and giving them the best advice.

``We have a network of counter-terrorism security advisers who are able to
supplement that advice by actually visiting specific venues and delivering
training.''

LOAD-DATE: January 21, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newswire


                  Copyright 2009 The Press Association Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              305 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                           Aberdeen Press and Journal

                           January 21, 2009 Wednesday

Staff take part in simulated terrorist attack

BYLINE: Declan Harte

SECTION: NEWS; 999; Disasters; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 207 words


STAFF from north-east businesses took part in a simulated terrorist attack
yesterday.

As part of a two-day training event arranged by Robert Gordon University (RGU)
and Grampian Police, senior staff members are being advised on how to cope with
threats.

While watching a video of a bomb threat in a shopping centre, the 27 people who
attended the course, with advice from police officers, were asked to formulate a
plan to safely evacuate the building.

Inspector David Nicoll said: "They are advised on how to report suspicious
behaviour and what type of equipment they should have in place to deal with a
terrorist attack.

"A lot of the issues we are covering could be applied to many situations, such
as flooding or fires."

The course, held at the university's Faculty of Health and Social Care building
on Garthdee Road, also includes a lecture on the terrorism threat in the UK.

Course organiser Moira Bailey said: "Those attending the course exchange ideas
on how to best deal with dangerous situations and as a result leave with ideas
and solutions they would never have thought of themselves."

Everyone who completes the course, which ends today, will receive a certificate
accredited by both RGU and industry skills body Skills for Security.

LOAD-DATE: January 21, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: TRAINING: From left, PC Graham Milne explains a homemade bomb to Glyn
Parry and Alan Beaton. Kenny Elrick

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: PJ


                      Copyright 2009 Aberdeen Journals Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                              306 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                             Leatherhead Advertiser

                                January 22, 2009

Villagers in terror attack survey

SECTION: Pg. 19

LENGTH: 145 words


Villagers in Leigh are being asked to say how they can help in the event of a
disaster.

They are to be quizzed by the parish council on what skills they can offer in
the event of a major flood, prolonged flood - or even a terrorist attack.

In the coming weeks a short questionnaire designed to gather this information
will be delivered to every household in the village.

David Hall, who runs the village  news website the Leigh Village Newsletter,
said: "In the case of Leigh, this could be a major flood or a prolonged power
failure though it could also include the consequences of a terrorist attack.

"As a preliminary to setting up a plan for Leigh, the parish council wants to
find out what skills parishioners might have to offer given such a situation.

"Medical expertise is an obvious one, but such things as construction and
electrical knowledge could also be vital."

LOAD-DATE: July 22, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: 309


                    Copyright 2009 Northcliffe Media Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              307 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                             Leatherhead Advertiser

                                January 22, 2009

Villagers in terror attack survey

SECTION: Pg. 19

LENGTH: 145 words


Villagers in Leigh are being asked to say how they can help in the event of a
disaster.

They are to be quizzed by the parish council on what skills they can offer in
the event of a major flood, prolonged flood - or even a terrorist attack.

In the coming weeks a short questionnaire designed to gather this information
will be delivered to every household in the village.

David Hall, who runs the village  news website the Leigh Village Newsletter,
said: "In the case of Leigh, this could be a major flood or a prolonged power
failure though it could also include the consequences of a terrorist attack.

"As a preliminary to setting up a plan for Leigh, the parish council wants to
find out what skills parishioners might have to offer given such a situation.

"Medical expertise is an obvious one, but such things as construction and
electrical knowledge could also be vital."

LOAD-DATE: August 21, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: 309


                    Copyright 2009 Northcliffe Media Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              308 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                       BBC Monitoring Africa - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                            January 26, 2009 Monday

AU chief condemns "cowardly terrorist attack" in Somalia

LENGTH: 337 words


Text of report in English by state-owned Ethiopian news agency ENA website

The chairperson of the Commission of the African Union (AU), Jean Ping,
condemns, in the strongest term, the suicide car bomb attack that took place on
Saturday [24 January] in the Somali capital, Mogadishu.

In a press statement sent to ENA [Ethiopian News Agency] on Sunday [25 January],
the chairperson said the attack has killed several innocent civilians and
threatened the life of a group of AU peacekeepers from AMISOM [AU mission in
Somalia] who were within the vicinity. He said such irresponsible rush forward
to indiscriminate acts of terrorism by extremist and isolated groups is
detrimental to the interest of Somalia and its people.

Ping said the cowardly terrorist attack came at a time of renewed efforts to
further peace and reconciliation in Somalia. He said currently, in pursuance of
the Djibouti and other subsequent [peace] agreements, the Somali stakeholders
are deliberating in Djibouti in order to put in place an expanded parliament and
elect a new president for the Transition Federal Government (TFG).

Furthermore, the AU commission, with the support of its partners, is taking
steps to strengthen AMISOM with the planned deployment, in the coming weeks, of
additional troops.

The chairperson reiterated AU's determination to do whatever is within its
capacity to continue supporting the ongoing peace and reconciliation efforts. He
stressed that the AU and the large international community will not be deterred
by the action being carried out by those criminal elements seeking to undermine
the search for lasting solution to the conflict in Somalia, and whose only
response to the plight of their people is more violence and destruction.

He calls on all the Somali stakeholders to recommit themselves to dialogue, rise
to the daunting challenge facing their country and bring to a definite end the
violence and suffering that have plaguing Somalia for about two decades now.

Source: ENA website, Addis Ababa, in English 25 Jan 09

LOAD-DATE: January 26, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2009 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              309 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                       BBC Monitoring Europe - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                            January 26, 2009 Monday

Bavarian minister warns of potential terrorist attacks in Germany

LENGTH: 193 words


Text of report by independent German news agency ddp

Munich (ddp) - Bavarian Interior Minister Joachim Hermann (CSU [Christian Social
Union]) complains about a lack of public awareness for the dangers of terrorism.
"We all should be aware that Al-Qa'idah or the Islamic Jihad Union will do
everything to carry out an attack in Germany this year," Hermann warned on SWR
[Southwest Broadcasting] on Monday [ 26 January]. "We need to see that the
danger is real."

Germany was high on the list of targets. This was proved by the terror plots
that either failed or were foiled. "A terrorist attack such as that in Bombay
recently can take place tomorrow or the day after tomorrow also in a large
German city," the CSU politician warned.

On the weekend there were reports that the security agencies were analysing a
new terrorist threat. In a video message, suspected Islamists announced attacks
in Germany. "We are going to send an army right into the centre of your city,
particularly Berlin, Cologne, and Bremen," they warned. Germany and four other
countries would be "getting problems from February 09."

Source: ddp news agency, Berlin, in German 0918 gmt 26 Jan 09

LOAD-DATE: January 26, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2009 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              310 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                                Echo (NewsQuest)

                            January 26, 2009 Monday

Firefighters use bus to train for terrorist attack

SECTION: SOUTHEND NEWS (SOUTHEND NEWS)

LENGTH: 157 words


FIREFIGHTERS put a donated bus to good use when they practiced evacuation and
contamination drills.

The single-decker was saved from the scrapyard and donated to Essex Fire and
Rescue so they could use it for training.

The old 39-seater, which used to run in Basildon, was used by firefighters to
simulate a terrorist attack at Southend Fire Station.

Five performing arts students from South East Essex College played the part of
bus driver and passengers to create a contamination scenario in which a white
powder was thrown on to the bus.

Assistant divisional officer Martyn Hodder, said: "One of the students acted as
though he had breathing difficulties and the officers stayed well back and
instructed the passengers over loud hailers.

"Once they were off the bus we held them in a contained area until the results
came back to say what the powder was.

"I'd like to thank the teachers and all of the students from the college, they
were very good."

LOAD-DATE: July 18, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2009 NewsQuest Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              311 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring South Asia - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                           January 29, 2009 Thursday

Pakistan minister says US drone attacks harming war on terror

LENGTH: 358 words


Text of report by official news agency Associated Press of Pakistan (APP)

Islamabad, 28 January [Wednesday]: Minister for Information and Broadcasting
Sherry Rehman said Wednesday that the drone attacks inside Pakistan were harming
the war against terrorism. Talking to reporters she said the government has
asked the US administration to share information about presence of terrorists on
Pakistani soil so as "our own forces" could take action. The minister said
Pakistan owns the war against terrorism as the country has suffered the most at
the hands of terrorists.

The Pakistan government and its people are facing terrorism bravely, she said
adding the US administration has been told that the drone attacks are harming
the war against terrorism. The minister said the government was making efforts
to save the people of FATA [Federally Administered Tribal Areas] and Swat from
displacement and measures were being taken against illegal radio broadcasts in
the affected areas.

To a question about the statement of PML-N [Pakistan Muslim League - Nawaz
Sharif] Chief Mian Nawaz Sharif, the minister said the PML-N was enjoying two
rides by acting as an opposition party in the centre [federal government] while
leading the coalition government in Punjab.

Urging the political forces not to use every issue for political motives, the
minister said the country was passing through a critical phase and all the
political forces should keep the national interest supreme.

Emphasizing the government's resolve to address all outstanding issues through
dialogue process, the minister said the government was keeping its doors open
for talks with the PML-N and other political forces.

She said contacts at all levels were being made as the federal government does
not believe in destabilizing any provincial government. To a query regarding the
cases of electoral eligibility of Mian Nawaz Sharif and Mian Shahbaz Sharif, the
minister made no comment as the matter was subjudice. "We cannot comment over
court hearings. The courts have their own procedures," she said.

Source: Associated Press of Pakistan news agency, Islamabad, in English 1533gmt
28 Jan 09

LOAD-DATE: January 29, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2009 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              312 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                          Press Association Mediapoint

                      January 30, 2009 Friday 9:20 PM BST

HUMAN RIGHTS LAWYER ATTACKS GOVERNMENTS FOR WAR ON TERROR

BYLINE: Tom Rayner, Press Association

SECTION: HOME NEWS

LENGTH: 596 words


Human rights lawyer Gareth Peirce attacked the British and American governments
for their war on terror and for their abuse of basic human rights in a speech
tonight.

The lawyer, who has worked on cases such as the Birmingham Six, the Guildford
Four and detainees held at Guantanamo Bay, was speaking at the first James
MacKeith memorial lecture in west London.

Mr MacKeith was a forensic psychiatrist who dedicated his career to human rights
and worked alongside Ms Peirce with detainees interned at Belmarsh.

Ms Peirce who has for more than 30 years fought cases of wrongful convictions
and those involving false confessions said that the ``language of national
security has undermined basic human rights laid out after World War Two''.

She attacked Tony Blair and George Bush for ``dismantling these guarantees'' and
said it was not a war on terror but a war of attrition on our human rights.

She said: ``In these past two weeks we've been given pause for thought by the
strength of visual images that short-handed words could never provide.

``The first image was to see a crowd of two-million in Washington DC, this was
to understand without any need for words, for all of use knew, that these were
the children of the crowds who had listened 40 years ago to Martin Luther King
and that some symbolic restoration was occurring under the inalienable rights
that had been ripped from their ancestors were being restored.

``The second image is in Gaza, we've watched as one of the world's most
impoverished people were bombed almost out of existence and seen children buried
alive next to their mothers and we knew without the necessity of words these
were the children and grandchildren of another people who had been driven from
their homes in what in war constituted an occupation of their seas and their
skies.

``Thinking the power of those images and the first executive order sent by
President Obama was to close Guantanamo Bay and the image of the colour orange
is burnt in our consciousness and we've seen men shackled and in robes just as
in the slave ships of the past.''

Ms Peirce paid a moving tribute to Mr MacKeith who died in 2007.

``He was a very good friend of mine and a good friend to a lot of people, some
of whom didn't even know him,'' she added.

``He could right wrongs by straightforward and simple approaches. Talk to those
you oppose and listen to them, never reduce your arguments to over-simplified
points, dig deep, check your instincts and if you have been given a skill that
could assist then act on it.

``He thought it was beyond his duty to reach beyond the normal reach and used
whatever he could lay his hands on to achieve right.''

She said that he had helped change the ``totally false wisdom that had prevailed
for over 800 years that the safest evidence was a confession''.

Gerry Conlon, a member of the Guildford Four said after Ms Peirce had spoken
that he has come all of the way from Ireland to pay his respects to the man who
had helped him out of 'the darkest period in my life'.

Mr MacKeith visited Mr Conlon when he was in prison and examined scientifically
his psychiatric state of mind and analysed confessions he made during his
internment.

Mr Conlon said: ``He was a marvellous, marvellous man and so as there is a
memorial event I will be here because he gave me so much.

``He stuck his head above the parapet when it was very unpopular to do so, but
he was an Englishman and a man who loved his country more than anything else but
he was also a man who believed in what was right and true and could not watch
injustice - I owe him everything.''

LOAD-DATE: January 31, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newswire


                  Copyright 2009 The Press Association Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              313 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                               The Sun (England)

                            January 30, 2009 Friday
                                   Edition 1

River City girl's road rage hell;
SOAP STAR ATTACK TERROR ACTRESS HIS BY YOB

BYLINE: GEORGINA REID; VICTORIA

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 459 words


RIVER City star Laura McMonagle last night described her terror as a thug
knocked her to the ground in a vicious road rage attack.

The blonde actress, 22, was assaulted by yob driver Gordon Anderson, 48, after
the pair were involved in a car accident.

Laura - who was travelling with actor boyfriend Ryan Fletcher, 25, and his
brother Scott, 19 - was in court yesterday to see Anderson found guilty of
attacking her.

And last night Laura, left - who played hooker Zoe Cullen in the BBC Scotland
soap - said: "This guy just looked like any normal bloke and then suddenly he
just started losing the plot.

"He just started whacking me. It was terrifying and I'll never forget the look
on his face.

"It could have been a lot worse if Ryan and Scott hadn't been there. They
managed to get him on the ground.

Scarred

"Court was horrible. I never want to have to go through that again.

"The hardest thing to believe is that it happened at 9.30am on a Monday morning
just round the corner from my house.

"I'm so glad I can just put it all behind me now."

Glasgow Sheriff Court yesterday heard how Ryan - who played troubled teen Vader
in River City - and Scott went to speak to Anderson after the crash in the
city's Southside.

But an argument broke out after Anderson refused to hand over his details to
Ryan, right.

Laura, of Glasgow, told the court: "He kept saying it wasn't his fault. He was
getting worked up.

"I stepped in between him and Scott and said 'Can you calm down' and he hit my
face four times.

"It was really fast - it was like one, two, three and then one final whack down
and I fell to the ground.

"By the time I got up I could see the boys trying to restrain Mr Anderson and I
went and phoned the police. Mr Anderson was trying to fight and they were
pulling him down. He was shouting 'Help', trying to make it as though he was the
victim. He was shouting at cars saying he was being attacked."

After Anderson, of Bearsden, Glasgow, was charged he went to another police
station to make a complaint against the actors. He told the court: "I was only
trying to stop myself from getting hit."

But he was found guilty of assaulting Ae Fond Kiss star Laura and committing a
breach of the peace. A charge of assaulting Scott by spitting on him after last
July's crash was not proven.

The court heard Anderson, who was released on bail, could lose his job as a bus
driver as a result of the conviction. He will be sentenced next month.

Laura is the third River City star to face terror on the streets.

Frances Healy, 38, who played lawyer Niamh Corrigan, was stalked and flashed at
by a seedy pervert in Glasgow's West End in 2006.

Michael Nardone, 42, the soap's DCI Whiteside, was scarred for life when he was
bottled in an unprovoked attack.

georginareid@the-sun.co.uk

LOAD-DATE: January 30, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Thug ... Anderson hit terrified Laura

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: SUN


                    Copyright 2009 NEWS GROUP NEWSPAPERS LTD
                              All Rights Reserved

                              314 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                          The Guardian - Final Edition

                           January 31, 2009 Saturday

National: Peirce attacks war on terror

BYLINE: Angela Balakrishnan

SECTION: GUARDIAN HOME PAGES; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 157 words


Human rights lawyer Gareth Peirce last night criticised the British and American
governments for their war on terror and their abuse of basic human rights.

Peirce, who has worked on high-

profile cases such as the Guildford Four and Guantanamo detainees, said that
"the language of national security has undermined basic human rights laid out
after world war two" during a speech at the first memorial lecture for James
MacKeith, a forensic psychiatrist who dedicated his career to human rights and
worked alongside Peirce with terror detainees held at Belmarsh prison.

Pierce, whose name is often associated with civil rights having fought cases of
wrongful convictions for more than 30 years and most recently representing the
family of Jean-Charles de Menezes, said the UK and US had not launched a war on
terror but a war on human rights.

She went on to criticise Tony Blair and George Bush for "dismantling" guarantees
to fundamental freedoms.

LOAD-DATE: January 31, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2009 Guardian Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              315 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring South Asia - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                            February 2, 2009 Monday

Drone attacks aggravating terrorism in Pakistan tribal areas - PM

LENGTH: 174 words


Text of report by official news agency Associated Press of Pakistan (APP)

Islamabad, 1 February [Sunday]: Prime Minister Syed Yusuf Raza Gillani said
drone attacks in Pakistani territory are only aggravating terrorism instead of
calming the situation in tribal areas.

Addressing a press conference here at Prime Minister's House, he said by
conviction he believes that such attacks instead of curbing the menace of
terrorism and militancy further aggravate it.

"We want to isolate the terrorists from tribal people as most of them are
patriotic and peace loving", he said and added the government was trying to
convince the new US administration that such attacks inflame the anti-US
sentiments and that no war could be won without the support of people.

The prime minister said the government has told the US that "If you have any
credible and actionable information, you should pass it on to our intelligence
agencies, and we will take the action on our own."

Source: Associated Press of Pakistan news agency, Islamabad, in English 1829gmt
01 Feb 09

LOAD-DATE: February 2, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2009 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              316 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                       BBC Monitoring Europe - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                            February 3, 2009 Tuesday

German police chief concerned about terrorist attacks influencing elections

LENGTH: 523 words


Text of report by centrist weekly German news magazine Focus on 2 February

[Interview with BKA President Joerg Ziercke by Hubert Gude; place and date not
given: "They Are Ready for Anything"]

[Gude] Almost every week there are new terror videos on the Internet, with
threats against Germany. Does this make you nervous?

[Ziercke] We must take this seriously and cannot just move on to business as
usual. A few months before the Bundestag election we see clear parallels with
the situation in Spain. The terrorist attack in Madrid in 2004 was intended to
influence the upcoming election and to lead to the withdrawal of Spanish
soldiers from Iraq. The result is known: Spain withdrew. The latest video
messages clearly show that Germany and German interests abroad are threatened.

[Gude] For the first time messages are aimed exclusively at Germany. What does
this mean?

[Ziercke] This is indeed something new. What is striking are the detailed
references to Germany. The latest video messages underscore our assessment: at
the highest level of Al-Qa'idah the decision has been made to carry out attacks
in Germany. In addition, we must expect additional terrorist attacks on the
Bundeswehr in Afghanistan and kidnappings of Germans.

[Gude] Rhineland's Al-Qa'idah spokesman Bekkay Harrach was watched already in
Germany. Why did you not prevent him from leaving the country, Mr Ziercke?

[Ziercke] Harrach was directly approached by the security authorities. However,
police did not have any legal reason to prevent him from leaving the country. At
that time, we could not see any crime he had committed. We learned only later on
that he was in an Al-Qa'idah training camp.

[Gude] German jihadists are in great demand in the Afghan terror camps. Has the
scene changed?

[Ziercke] The strategy of Al-Qa'idah and of the Islamic Jihad Union (IJU) of
recruiting young people in Germany naturally has an effect. By now a few dozen
Islamists from Germany have been trained in these camps. Very often it is, in
particular, the misguided German converts who have been radicalized most
strongly. However, I warn against putting converts under a general suspicion.

[Gude] What makes them so dangerous?

[Ziercke] They know the German infrastructure, are integrated in society, and
hardly attract attention with how they look. I am watching these Islamists from
Germany, both radical converts as well as persons with a migration background,
with concern. We must assume that they are ready for anything.

In the camps of Al-Qa'idah, IJU, and the Taleban they have been trained for the
armed struggle, They are willing and able to commit attacks. However, we do not
have any specific information pointing to such attacks at the moment.

[Gude] Which role is played by radical preachers in the recruitment of potential
jihadists?

[Ziercke] They are multipliers for Islamist propaganda. In addition, they are
models for young people without orientation. They purposefully recruit these
young people and support their radicalization. In extreme cases, this leads to a
stay in a terrorist training camp via Koran and language schools.

Source: Focus, Munich, in German 2 Feb 09

LOAD-DATE: February 3, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2009 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              317 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring South Asia - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                           February 4, 2009 Wednesday

Pakistan troops see increasing desertions due to terror attacks - daily

LENGTH: 656 words


Text of report by Javed Aziz Khan headlined "A cops' nightmare" by Pakistani
newspaper The News on 1 February

The situation in most parts of the Frontier and FATA [Federally Administered
Tribal Areas] has come to a point where the security forces' personnel have
refused to be posted in turbulent towns, even against better salaries and more
incentives. A large-scale desertion has been witnessed in Frontier Police and
Frontier Constabulary since they became the prime target of terrorist attacks.
The situation is worse in Swat where a large number of cops have quit their jobs
and published adverts in local newspapers so that the militants would know they
are no more fighting against them.

Recruitment in Swat police was announced on many occasions in the past year but
very few candidates turned up for jobs. The rest decided not to join till peace
is restored in the valley. The government even relaxed the criteria for these
jobs but the tactic didn't work.

The most shocking news, however, was the en bloc refusal of about 600 specially
trained commandos of the newly set up Elite Police Force (EPF), who said
collectively that they would rather be dismissed. The services of these
commandos were placed at the disposal of district police officer Swat and they
were supposed to join duty in the first week of January. But none of them went
to the troubled valley. Parents of the newly trained commandos also refused to
send their children to the war-hit region where cops had been slaughtered and
strangulated publicly.

Refusal of such a large number of policemen to join duty in Swat puzzled the
authorities who later decided to deploy the EPF cops in Peshawar, Dera Ismail
Khan, Kohat and Hangu.

"We are not afraid of being killed but we have certain reservations on the role
that the police force has been assigned in the region. If we alone are allowed
to clear Swat (of terrorists), we are ready," opined a young commando,
requesting anonymity.

The cop said that there must be a mechanism of providing ration and other
logistics to the EPF cops, like army men, so that none of them will have go to
bazaars for shopping and be ambushed.

It may be mentioned here that a large number of policemen and FC [Frontier
Corps] personnel were caught by the militants from different trade centres or
bus stands. Four cops were brutally murdered in Swat recently. The body of one
Gul Islam was mutilated and his face disfigured. The head of another, Javed, was
slit with a drill machine, while Aziz, a driver, was slaughtered after his
family could not arrange the ransom money. Another unidentified cop was also
killed last week. Bodies of several policemen were hanged in public places.

Recalling incidents of beheading, an EPF commando told TNS: "None of the
culprits have been caught or punished till date. This, obviously, brings the
morale of the force down."

Posting in Swat has become a very sensitive issue - something that the officials
avoid commenting on. An official of the Frontier Police when approached only
said that the government had spent over 10m rupees on a four-month training of
1,022 cops of the EPF, who would be given 3,000 rupees in addition to their
salaries.

Interestingly, the establishment of the EPF has not yet been formally
sanctioned. Though, the NWFP [North-West Frontier Province] chief minister has
approved the setting up of the Elite Force, comprising 2,500 commandos, as a
special case. Special training has been given to 1,022 cops by army men at the
Punjab Regimental Centre in Mardan while 521 others were trained at Karachi.
Besides, the entire police force is being given five-week Anti Terrorist Squad
(ATS) training to equip them with techniques of fighting terrorism. A contingent
of over 500 cops who are training in Karachi will return in March this year
after which they will be deployed in different parts of the troubled valley.

Source: The News website, Islamabad, in English 01 Feb 09

LOAD-DATE: February 4, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2009 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              318 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring South Asia - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                           February 4, 2009 Wednesday

Terror funding for attacks in India declines - intelligence data

LENGTH: 429 words


Text of report by Pramod Kumar headlined "Terror funding falls, militants paid
less" published by Indian newspaper The Asian Age website on 4 February

New Delhi, Feb. 3: There is a sharp decline in the amounts paid by terror
outfits Al Qaeda and Lashkar-e-Tayyaba to their "mujahids" for carrying out
fidayeen (suicide) attacks in India and other parts of the world.

According to the latest intelligence inputs, the LeT is not paying more than Rs
2 lakhs [200,000] as a one-time payment to its militants, especially Pakistani
nationals, for fidayeen attacks in India. Earlier, the LeT used to pay Rs 2.5
lakhs to Rs 3 lakhs for a fidayeen attack. Indian nationals trained at LeT
terror camps located in Pakistan are now paid Rs 1 lakh. They used to get Rs 1.5
lakh to Rs 2 lakhs, said a high-ranking Intelligence Bureau official.

"Because of the pressure from the world community, there is a substantial
decrease in the funding of Al Qaeda's terrorist activities. Al Qaeda does not
work as a single organisation. It has many organisations for different part of
the world and the LeT works for Al Qaeda in India. Due to global pressure, Al
Qaeda is getting less funds from people in some Arab countries, which has
affected their payments to terrorists," said the official.

IB [Intelligence Bureau] sources said Pakistan-based militant outfits were
paying a total of about Rs 360 crores [one crore is 10 million] annually for
terror activities in India. According to figures compiled by the Indian security
agencies, the headquarters of militant outfits, including the LeT, Hizb-ul
Mujahideen, Jaish-e-Mohammad and Al Badr, located in Pakistan, jointly issue a
total Rs 10 crores monthly for their overground workers and the like amount
monthly for active militants.

The Hizb-ul Mujahideen has the largest numbers of militants active in Jammu and
Kashmir and other parts of India. While the Hizb issues Rs 35 lakhs to Rs 45
lakhs every month for its nearly 500 to 600 militants operating in India, the
LeT issues Rs 25 lakhs to Rs 30 lakhs for its 250 to 300 militants monthly.

The IB official added, "JeM issues Rs 20 lakhs to Rs 25 lakhs for its 100 to 150
militants operating in India on a monthly basis. Militants who are sent for
special operations (including fidayeen attacks) get a one-time payment of Rs 2
lakhs. Fidayeen attacks are mostly carried out by Lashkar members." The official
also revealed that it is mostly Pakistani militants who are trained to carry out
fidayeen attacks at LeT training camps in Pakistan.

Source: The Asian Age website, Delhi, in English 04 Feb 09

LOAD-DATE: February 4, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2009 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              319 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                               The Times (London)

                           February 4, 2009 Wednesday
                                   Edition 1

Terror suspects 'plotting attacks';
IN THE NEWS

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 33 words


Terror suspects are able to maintain contact with their extremist associates and
plot attacks despite being held under virtual house arrest, the Government's
anti-terror watchdog said. News, page 5

LOAD-DATE: February 4, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: TIM


                    Copyright 2009 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              320 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                               The Times (London)

                           February 4, 2009 Wednesday
                                   Edition 1

Terror suspects 'plot attacks' while under house arrest;
Control order review reveals ongoing threat

BYLINE: Richard Ford

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 17

LENGTH: 734 words


Terror suspects are plotting a return to terrorist activity with extremist
associates despite being held under virtual house arrest, the Government's
antiterror watchdog disclosed yesterday.

They have been able to keep in touch with either terrorist organisations and
individuals and remain determined to mount terror attacks in the future, he
warned.

Lord Carlile of Berriew, QC, issued the warning in his annual review of the
operation of control orders, which impose strict limits on suspects against whom
there is not enough evidence to bring a prosecution.

There are currently 15 such suspects who are all under curfews, which force them
to stay at home for between 8 and 16 hours a day, ban them from having mobile
phones and from using the internet. They are allowed to have fixed telephone
lines.

Lord Carlile said that despite the restrictions, "a few of the suspects had been
able to keep in contact with associates in terrorism". His review said: "The
material I have seen justifies the conclusion there are a few controlees who,
despite the restrictions placed upon them, manage to maintain some contact with
terrorist associates and/or groups, and a determination to become operational in
the future."

He added that control orders would not be suitable for any former Guantánamo Bay
detainees returned or accepted into the UK.

It is understood that the suspects have contacted associates by telephone and
through personal contacts.

They were discovered in surveillance by the police and security agencies. A
total of 38 people have been the subject of control orders since the regime was
introduced in 2005. The current 15 must all permit the police to enter their
homes at any time, surrender their passports and inform the authorities if they
become employed. Five of them have been subjects of an order for more than two
years.

Thirteen must attend a specified mosque and a similar number are banned from
associating with certain people and are not allowed to transfer money out of the
country. Six are also barred from leading prayers at a mosque.

Three are facing trial this year accused of breaching their control orders, the
annual report said. They are alleged to have breached restrictions on
communications, financial dealings and the requirement to report to the
authorities - but are not those who had managed to keep in contact with terror
associates.

On the issue of former Guantánamo Bay detainees and their possible acceptance by
the UK, Lord Carlile said: "In this context it should be said that control
orders are not a routine form of control of people who are perceived to be
potentially troublesome, and it is oversimplistic to assume that they would be
appropriate, acceptable, practicable or even lawful against a group of people
simply because they had been detained elsewhere, under a foreign and (unusual)
jurisdiction."

Lord Carlile believes that British courts would not impose a control order
simply on the basis that because someone had been a detainee in Guantánamo they
were a terrorist. He also thinks that neither the Home Secretary or a court
would agree to a control order on evidence obtained under conditions defined as
torture.

The review also called for a twoyear time limit on control orders in all but the
most exceptional cases. He said that after two years under an order, the
individual's ability to carry out attacks would have been seriously disrupted.
"The terrorist will know that the authorities will retain an interest in his or
her activities and contacts, and will be likely to scrutinise them in the
future," he said..

"For those organising terrorism, a person who has been subject to a control
order for up to two years is an unattractive operator, who may be assumed to
have the eyes and ears of the state upon him/her." Ministers have rejected this
suggestion, he said..

Chris Grayling, the Shadow Home Secretary, said: "It's extraordinary that
terrorist suspects subject to control orders are still being allowed to maintain
contact with their terrorist associates.

We told them that this system wouldn't work properly, but they just wouldn't
listen." Chris Huhne, the Liberal Democrat home affairs spokesman, said: "Lord
Carlile's report on controlees' contact with terrorist associates makes a strong
case for either proceeding to full charges or dropping control orders
altogether."

Lord Carlile: 'Suspects able to keep in touch with terror contacts'

LOAD-DATE: February 4, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: TIM


                    Copyright 2009 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              321 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                                The West Briton

                                February 5, 2009

Terrorist attack responses delivered;
Terrorist attack response plans have been delivered to many Falmouth businesses.

SECTION: Pg. 11

LENGTH: 208 words


Police, firefighters and emergency planners took staff from shops, banks, pubs,
clubs and docks police through a simulated a terrorist attack with an
audio-visual presentation.

Although it was strongly emphasised no attack was facing the town, police wish
to deliver the sessions at all towns in the region to explore ways of
preventing, handling and recovering from an attack.

Sergeant Cara Trott said: "There is no threat to the town that we are aware of,
but we are trying to take this to all towns.

"There is a lesson learned from Exeter that we cannot be complacent.

"We have to ensure we are vigilant and ready if anything arises. It is about
making sure everyone is ready for such a situation."

The district council are working on creating a contingency plan.

Sergeant Trott added: "I have had quite a lot of positive feedback. The day gave
then a good insight."

It was part of 'Project Argus', a National Counter Terrorism Security Office
(NaCTSO) initiative.

David Pollard, town centre manager, said: "There were lessons for us all and
certainly, the business community and Falmouth Town Council will need to ensure
that there is a well prepared emergency plan and related training in place to
cover such a situation.

"We are not immune from the risk."

LOAD-DATE: August 21, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: 61


                         Copyright 2009 The West Briton
                              All Rights Reserved

                              322 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                                The West Briton

                                February 5, 2009

Terrorist attack responses delivered;
Terrorist attack response plans have been delivered to many Falmouth businesses.

SECTION: Pg. 11

LENGTH: 208 words


Police, firefighters and emergency planners took staff from shops, banks, pubs,
clubs and docks police through a simulated a terrorist attack with an
audio-visual presentation.

Although it was strongly emphasised no attack was facing the town, police wish
to deliver the sessions at all towns in the region to explore ways of
preventing, handling and recovering from an attack.

Sergeant Cara Trott said: "There is no threat to the town that we are aware of,
but we are trying to take this to all towns.

"There is a lesson learned from Exeter that we cannot be complacent.

"We have to ensure we are vigilant and ready if anything arises. It is about
making sure everyone is ready for such a situation."

The district council are working on creating a contingency plan.

Sergeant Trott added: "I have had quite a lot of positive feedback. The day gave
then a good insight."

It was part of 'Project Argus', a National Counter Terrorism Security Office
(NaCTSO) initiative.

David Pollard, town centre manager, said: "There were lessons for us all and
certainly, the business community and Falmouth Town Council will need to ensure
that there is a well prepared emergency plan and related training in place to
cover such a situation.

"We are not immune from the risk."

LOAD-DATE: February 6, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: 61


                         Copyright 2009 The West Briton
                              All Rights Reserved

                              323 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                                The West Briton

                                February 5, 2009

Terrorist attack responses delivered;
Terrorist attack response plans have been delivered to many Falmouth businesses.

SECTION: Pg. 11

LENGTH: 208  words


Police, firefighters and emergency planners took staff from shops, banks, pubs,
clubs and docks police through a simulated a terrorist attack with an
audio-visual presentation.

Although it was strongly emphasised no attack was facing the town, police wish
to deliver the sessions at all towns in the region to explore ways of
preventing, handling and recovering from an attack.

Sergeant Cara Trott said: "There is no threat to the town that we are aware of,
but we are trying to take this to all towns.

"There is a lesson learned from Exeter that we cannot be complacent.

"We have to ensure we are vigilant and ready if anything arises. It is about
making sure everyone is ready for such a situation."

The district council are working on creating a contingency plan.

Sergeant Trott added: "I have had quite a lot of positive feedback. The day gave
then a good insight."

It was part of 'Project Argus', a National Counter Terrorism Security Office
(NaCTSO) initiative.

David Pollard, town centre manager, said: "There were lessons for us all and
certainly, the business community and Falmouth Town Council will need to ensure
that there is a well prepared emergency plan and related training in place to
cover such a situation.

"We are not immune from the risk."

LOAD-DATE: June 11, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: 61


                         Copyright 2009 The West Briton
                              All Rights Reserved

                              324 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                                  Burton Mail

                            February 6, 2009 Friday

Milkman tells of early morning attack terror

LENGTH: 405 words


A MILKMAN from Burton has spoken of his terror after being attacked and robbed
while carrying out his early morning round.

John Harvey, 58, was delivering milk in Cumberland Road, Stapenhill, at around
3.30am on Monday when he was approached by an 'aggressive' male attacker who
demanded money.

When he refused to hand over the cash, the assailant hit Dairy Crest employee Mr
Harvey in the chest with a milk bottle.

Following a struggle, the thug stole a crate of milk from Mr Harvey's milk float
before escaping in a waiting car.

The attack left Mr Harvey, from Uxbridge Street, feeling shaken, and aggravated
an existing medical condition.

"I was terrified and I just went into shock afterwards," he said. "It's the
first time in seven years doing this job that something like this has happened.
I'm absolutely disgusted that I can't be safe doing my job.

"I've got a hiatus hernia and he hit me right where it was. I have only just
been in hospital having a camera put down there so it was sore to start with.
It's causing me a lot of discomfort."

After Mr Harvey made a 999 call to police, the attacker made off in a green
coloured saloon car, believed to be a Rover, along with three other male
occupants.

He is described as white, 18, 5ft 8in and slim. He was wearing a green hooded
top. The driver of the car was also a white man, wearing a white hooded top.

After taking a day off following his ordeal, father-of-three Mr Harvey returned
to work on Wednesday and has vowed not to let the robbers beat him.

"The company had someone come in the float with me when I went back to where it
happened," he said. "It was worrying and frightening to go back there, but I'm
not going to let these people control my life."

Staffordshire Police spokesman Pete Stevens condemned the attack and urged
anyone who may have seen the incident to contact the police.

"This was a cowardly attack on a man going about his lawful business and
providing a valuable service to the community," he said.

"The incident happened in the early hours of the morning but there may have been
people around going to work or returning from a night shift.

"The chances are the four offenders may have been in the area for some time
before the attack so there's a good chance someone may have seen them, or their
car driving off at speed."

Anyone with information is asked to telephone Burton CID on 0300 1234455 or
Crimestoppers, anonymously, on 0800 555111.

LOAD-DATE: July 9, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: BM


                    Copyright 2009 Iliffe News and Media Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                              325 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                          The Daily Telegraph (London)

                            February 6, 2009 Friday

DOSSIER;
'Seduced by bin Laden's rhetoric, taught to make bombs then sent to kill';
Con Coughlin, Security Editor, has obtained an FBI document outlining the case
against Binyam Mohamed, including evidence gathered during his interrogation,
when he claims he was tortured. It discloses how he allegedly met Osama bin
Laden while being trained for jihad at an Afghan al-Qaeda camp, before fighting
for the Taliban. Investigators claim that when he was arrested he was on the
verge of travelling to the US,;
renting flats in an apartment block and blowing them up in a terrorist attack.

BYLINE: Con Coughlin

SECTION: NEWS; The torture files; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 1257  words


Muhammad was born on July 24 1978 in City, Ethiopia, and claims Ethiopian
citizenship. He speaks English and Arabic.

Where otherwise noted, the following narrative is drawn from open source
reporting or Muhammad's own account:

* In approximately October 2000, Muhammad was employed part-time at [a named
mosque] as a caretaker. He watched many jihad videos and heard noted extremist
Abu Qatada Al Masri speak about jihad in Indonesia. Muhammad decided to join his
'brothers' (Abdul Rahim and Yusef Jamaiki, aka Andrew Rowe) to fight in
Afghanistan.

* Rahim [aka Richard Reid, the shoe bomber] told Muhammad that, in order for him
to get into Afghanistan, he would need money and a passport. Muhammad attempted
to obtain a passport legally from the Government of the United Kingdom with the
assistance of a solicitor. Muhammad was not a British citizen, however, and was
told it would take at least six months.

* In March 2001, Muhammad stated that he bought a real Spanish passport from a
street thief recommended by [named man]. When told that it was too old, had
excessive wear, and had been altered too many times, he persuaded a friend to
lend him their passport, which he turned over to Rahim to be forged using
pictures of Mohammad.

* After buying airfare to Pakistan, he was given a forged Pakistani visa and in
May 2001 traveled to Islamabad. A friend gave him the name of an individual in
Islamabad who would take him to the Algerian training camp in Afghanistan.

* After arriving in Pakistan, his contact took him to the Pakistan/Afghanistan
border and then to [a named guest house] in Jalalabad run by [a named man]. Upon
arrival at the guest house, all of his belongings (passport, money, all other
documentation) were taken and stored with that of the other residents.

* M then went to the Derunta Training Camp. There he received physical,
religious, and weapons training. M trained on the DSHK and Zukiyak anti-aircraft
weapons, various handguns and rifles, rocket-propelled grenades, as well as riot
control weapons. The training was very detailed and he learned to shoot down a
helicopter with Zukiyak.

* When Mullah Omar and Usama Bin Laden (UBL) ordered the Derunta Camp closed,
Muhammad and the other trainees tore everything down, loaded them into vehicles,
and returned to the guest house. M then went to the Al Farouq training camp in
Kandahar for about 45 days of additional training - including weapons training,
guerilla techniques and tactics, map reading, and basic explosives training.

* M first saw UBL when he attended a speech during his in-processing at Al
Farouq. UBL visited approximately 10 more times and gave speeches on jihad,
martyrdom. During one, UBL showed news clips of the attack on the USS Cole,
which was the first time M learned that al Qaeda had carried out the attack.
During another lecture, UBL told them that "something big is going to happen in
the near future'' and to "get ready''. After the 9/11 attacks, M realized this
is what UBL had been referring to.

* After leaving Al Farouq in September 2001, M went to the front lines with
other al Qaeda members, to participate in combat operations with the Taliban
against the Northern Alliance. While on the front lines, he received additional
"on the job'' paramilitary training.

* After spending time on the front lines, M was sent to the Turkish Camp, an
explosives camp located outside Bagram, about one-quarter mile from the Moroccan
Camp. M trained on making explosives, including how to make acetone and hexam
detonators, and how to prepare various explosive compounds consisting of
potassium nitrate, black pepper and black seed. The training included classroom
and practical applications which allowed students

to actually detonate explosives.

* At that time, M teamed with Richard Reid, with whom he became close friends,
to go to this camp without the knowledge of the Moroccans at the adjacent camp.
Richard Reid left the training early for an operation, which M now believes was
his failed shoe bomb attempt. M was promised remote control training at the
madrassas in [a region of] Afghanistan. He was told to go to Pakistan first for
training in remote control explosive devices and then to return to train in
Afghanistan on how to build the devices.

* After completing this training, he met with the al Qaida leader Hadi al Iraqi,
who told M that because of his education in electrical engineering, facility in
English, refugee status in the UK, and dedication to al Qaida, he would be
assigned to a specialized terrorist mission.

* Because of M's education in electrical engineering and explosives training, al
Qaida gave him special training in building explosive remote control detonation
devices to be used to attack Coalition forces in Afghanistan. In addition to
producing these devices, M was slated to teach other al Qaeda members how to
build these remote-controlled detonation devices.

* After completing his training, al Qaeda sent M to a safehouse in Lahore,
Pakistan,  where he stayed approximately two weeks with Jose Padilla, [another
named man], and Abu Zubaydah. During that time, AZ told M he was well suited for
foreign operations and planned to send M to Karachi to meet with Khalid Sheikh
Mohammad to discuss these plans. M also discussed plans for using a gas tanker
to create an explosion in a US night club as well as plans for cyanide attacks.

* While in Pakistan, AZ told M that he was serious about creating a hydrogen
bomb. M and Padilla reviewed technical information concerning the construction
of an improvised radioactive bomb ("dirty bomb''), which they subsequently used
to plan an attack against the US. They also discussed other plans against the
US, such as blowing up gas tankers with piercing bullets and spraying people
with cyanide in nightclubs. They determined that one of the purposes for the
attacks on the US was to help "free the prisoners in Cuba''. Instead of
returning to Afghanistan to fight Coalition forces and teach in the al Qaida
training camps, both agreed to be sent to the US to conduct terror operations.

* AZ subsequently sent M and Padilla to Karachi to meet Saif al Adel and Khalid
Shaykh Mohammed to get their specific terrorist mission assignment. Saif al Adel
and Khalid Shaykh Mohammed informed them that their mission would involve
targeting buildings with natural gas and gas stations in the US. Specifically,
Khalid Shaykh Mohammed suggested that they rent several apartments in large
apartment buildings in the US, fill the apartments with natural gas after
sealing the apartments in order to contain the gas, and then detonate the  gas
using delayed timing devices. Khalid Shaykh Mohammed instructed them to buttress
the support pillars of the apartments with aluminium or steel panels, thus
causing the pillars to absorb the force of the blast, thereby collapsing the
buildings entirely. M and Padilla agreed to conduct this operation.

* In early April 2002, M received $6,000 in order to travel to the United
States. Padilla accepted $10,000 to pay for his travel to the US and to finance
the terrorist mission.

* On April 4 2002, M and Jose Padilla were both detained by Pakistani
authorities at passport control at the airport in Karachi, for apparent passport
irregularities. The Pakistanis released them the following morning. M then
obtained a different forged passport, while Jose Padilla continued on to
Chicago, Illinois.

*All Americanised spellings, or spellings that differ within the document - such
as  Muhammad/Mohammad - are directly copied from document.

LOAD-DATE: February 6, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2009 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              326 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                               The Sun (England)

                            February 6, 2009 Friday
                                   Edition 1

Terrorist faces jail for attack

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 31

LENGTH: 102 words


LAWYERS could help decide if 'trick or treat' killer Torrens Knight can be
locked up for life.

The mass murderer allegedly attacked two women in the Blackthorn Bar in
Coleraine, Derry, last May.

A file on the case has been handed to the Public Prosecution Service.

Knight walked out of jail in 2000 under the Good Friday Agreement after serving
just five years.

He was part of a ruthless four-man gang which roared "trick or treat" before
opening fire inside the Rising Sun bar in Greysteel, Co Derry, in the days after
the IRA's Shankill bombing.

Eight people were murdered in the Halloween night slaughter in 1993..

LOAD-DATE: February 6, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Murderer ... Knight

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: SUN


                    Copyright 2009 NEWS GROUP NEWSPAPERS LTD
                              All Rights Reserved

                              327 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring South Asia - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                           February 7, 2009 Saturday

Bangladesh minister criticizes Pakistan claim about Mumbai terror attacks

LENGTH: 335 words


Text of unattributed report headlined " Mumbai attack: Sahara slates Pak claim
of Bangladesh's involvement" published by Bangladeshi newspaper The Daily Star
website on 7 February

Home Minister Sahara Khatun yesterday [6 February] strongly condemned the
Pakistan investigation agency's claim of Bangladesh's involvement in the Mumbai
terror attacks last year.

"Militants and terrorists do not belong to any territory, country and nation. I
am shocked at such claim," she told reporters after attending the concluding
ceremony of annual sports competition of Rajuk Uttara Model College.

The three-day long competition of the college ended yesterday amid various
colourful programmes and prize distribution among contestants on the college
premises.

Asked about the measures the home ministry would take in removing terrorism in
the educational institutions, Sahara said her ministry is taking necessary steps
in this regard.

"We are trying and I said times and again that we want to get to the root of the
problems," she added.

Action would be taken against terrorists irrespective of their party
affiliation, she said.

Addressing the programme as the chief guest, the home minister sought
cooperation from people of all strata of society to build a peaceful Bangladesh
by eliminating corruption, terrorism, militancy and extortion.

"We need your cooperation and suggestion. I can promise that I would try to root
out terrorism, militancy and extortion even if I have to put my life on the line
if you cooperate us," she said.

Every educational institution and even the administration were politicised
during the tenure of the BNP [Bangladesh Nationalist Party]-led four-party
government, she said adding, "We want everything be run on the basis of merit."

ASM Ali Kabir, secretary to the establishment ministry, inaugurated the
concluding ceremony. He gave prizes away to the contestants of over 50 events.

College principal and guardians also spoke on the occasion.

Source: The Daily Star website, Dhaka, in English 07 Feb 09

LOAD-DATE: February 7, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2009 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              328 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                            The Independent (London)

                           February 7, 2009 Saturday
                                 First Edition

Halting of terror attack trial angers US families;
World in brief

BYLINE: LEONARD DOYLE

SECTION: WORLD; Pg. 34

LENGTH: 144 words


WASHINGTON President Barack Obama yesterday sought to defuse the anger of
families of the victims of the 9/11 attacks as well as relatives of the 17
sailors killed in the bombing of the USS Cole by explaining why he is closing
Guantanamo Bay and why charges against the alleged mastermind of the suicide
attack on the Navy were dropped. Groups representing victims' families were
infuriated by President Obama's executive order to halt the terrorist court
proceedings. They say they have already waited too long to see Abd al-Rahim
al-Nashiri, the alleged al-Qai'da ringleader in the attack, brought to trial.
Susan Crawford, the top legal judge for the military trials, ordered the charges
against Mr Nashiri to be dropped. He is among terrorist suspects known to have
been "waterboarded" by the CIA and says he confessed to the Cole plot only
because he was tortured.

LOAD-DATE: February 6, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: IA


                      Copyright 2009 Independent Print Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                              329 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring South Asia - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                            February 8, 2009 Sunday

Indian agencies: Pakistan trying to "eliminate" terrorist held in Mumbai attacks

LENGTH: 376 words


Text of report by Pramod Kumar headlined "Kasab security up over D-Company
fears" published by Indian newspaper The Asian Age website on 8 February

New Delhi, 7 February - The security of Ajmal Kasab, the only terrorist taken
alive during the 26/11 attacks, has been tightened. Senior officials of the
intelligence agencies say there are reports that the authorities in Pakistan are
trying to eliminate Kasab with the help of their operatives in India.

The Mumbai police has been asked to provide full-proof security for Kasab, who
is in a high-security cell at Arthur Road Jail. His movements inside prison are
being watched and no other inmates are allowed to meet him, said a high-ranking
Intelligence Bureau official. Of the 12 cases registered in connection with
26/11, Kasab is directly involved in four. The four cases involve the firing at
CST [Chhatrapati Shivaji Terminal], at Cama Hospital and at Marine Drive, the
murder of constable Tukaram Omble and attempts to murder other policemen at
Girgaum Chowpatty.

"There are reports that the Pakistani authorities, with the help of the ISI
[Inter-Services Intelligence], are trying to eliminate Kasab as they fear that
more revelations may cause further embarrassment. The latest inputs suggest that
D -Company [Dawood Ibrahim Gang] men and other Pakistani militants operating in
India have been instructed to eliminate Kasab. We are well aware of how
D-Company's network operates in India and other parts of the country," said the
official. The Mumbai police has been asked to take extra precautions as far as
Kasab is concerned as there are several militants and D-Company associates in
Arthur Road Jail, he added. Certain phone numbers, including mobile numbers,
have been put under surveillance, he said, adding, "I cannot discuss this much."

"Food offered to Kasab is checked properly. No special treatment is being given
to Kasab, we are only taking extra precautions. Senior officials of the Arthur
Road prison also visit his cell regularly. Each and every movement he makes is
under surveillance. We just cannot take a chance," the official said. Kasab is
taken to undisclosed locations for interrogation by security officials, he
added.

Source: The Asian Age website, Delhi, in English 08 Feb 09

LOAD-DATE: February 8, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2009 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              330 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                 BBC Monitoring Former Soviet Union - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                           February 10, 2009 Tuesday

Terrorist attacks in Russia's Ingushetia masterminded by Arabs - president

LENGTH: 282 words


Text of report by Gazprom-owned, editorially independent Russian radio station
Ekho Moskvy on 9 February

[Presenter] Arabs are behind the recent terrorist attacks in Ingushetia,
President Yunus-Bek Yevkurov has said in an interview with the newspaper Novaya
Gazeta. He also said that corruption in the republic is one of the reasons why
young people are attracted by militants. Andrey Gavrilov has more.

[Correspondent] Militants who commit terrorist acts in Ingushetia, attacks
against civilians and employees of law-enforcement agencies have a huge base of
associates - those who keep weapons, make explosives, there are thousands of
them, the republic's head, Yunus-Bek Yevkurov said in the interview with Novaya
Gazeta.

He believes that Arabs manage field commanders acting in Ingushetia, with intent
to break up Russia. The country's south is the most fertile field for this, the
Ingush president believes. According to Yevkurov, the main tasks today are to
eliminate corruption and maximally improve people's social and economic
conditions.

Another serious problem is North Ossetian Prigorodnyy District. It must be
returned to the Ingush, Yevkurov says. It will be a major moral incentive for
people, who are offended because Moscow ignores them. Nearly 40 per cent of the
Ingush are sure that Moscow does not need them, it is dangerous, Yevkurov told
Novaya Gazeta. He thinks people should return to their homes, and everything
necessary should be created for this.

[Presenter] The Ingush president also said that all special operations in the
republic are carried out in the presence of his representatives and a
prosecutor.

Source: Ekho Moskvy radio, Moscow, in Russian 0600 gmt 9 Feb 09

LOAD-DATE: February 10, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2009 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              331 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                       BBC Monitoring Europe - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                           February 12, 2009 Thursday

Turkey condemns terrorist attacks in Afghanistan, Pakistan

LENGTH: 236 words


Text of report in English by Turkish semi-official news agency Anatolia

Ankara, 12 February: Turkey condemned on Thursday [12 February] heinous attacks
in Afghanistan and Pakistan.

Turkey harshly condemned terrorist attacks in the Afghan capital of Kabul and
Pakistani city of Peshawar, a Ministry of Foreign Affairs statement said.

"Turkey strongly condemns the terrorist attacks that harmed regional peace,
security and stability," the statement said.

The statement said that Turkey was following the developments in Kabul with
concern, and expressed sorrow over death of a Pakistani law maker, Alam Zeb
Khan, in the Peshawar attack.

The ministry said the attacks once more indicated the heinous face of terrorism.

"Turkey, which is saying in all its bilateral, regional and international talks
that terrorism is a crime against humanity - whatever its source or reason are -
attaches vital importance to efficient international cooperation and solidarity
in fight against terrorism," the statement said.

The statement also said that Turkey would continue to support efforts aiming to
restore regional peace and stability.

A bomb killed a law maker and wounded six other people Wednesday in Peshawar.

Also, eight Taleban gunmen attacked three Afghan government buildings [on]
Wednesday in a coordinated assault that killed 20 people in the heart of Kabul.

Source: Anatolia news agency, Ankara, in English 1025 gmt 12 Feb 09

LOAD-DATE: February 12, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2009 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              332 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                                  M2 PressWIRE

                           February 12, 2009 Thursday

United Nations: Security Council press statement on terrorist attacks in Kabul

LENGTH: 394 words


statement on terrorist attacks in Kabul

The following Security Council press statement on the terrorist attacks
in Kabul was read out by Council President Yukio Takasu ( Japan):

The members of the Security Council condemned in the strongest terms
the terrorist attacks at government facilities in Kabul on 11 February
2009, which caused numerous deaths and injuries.

The members of the Security Council expressed their condolences to the
families of the victims and to the people and the Government of
Afghanistan.

The members of the Security Council noted that the Taliban claimed
responsibility for the attacks. The members of the Security Council
underlined the need to bring perpetrators, organizers, financiers and
sponsors of these reprehensible acts of terrorism to justice, and urged
all States, in accordance with their obligations under international
law and relevant Security Council resolutions, to cooperate actively
with the Afghan authorities in this regard.

The members of the Security Council reiterated their concern at the
threats posed by the Taliban, Al-Qaida, illegal armed groups, criminals
and those involved in the illicit narcotics production and trafficking,
to the local population, national security forces, international
military and international assistance efforts in Afghanistan.

The members of the Security Council reaffirmed the need to combat by
all means, in accordance with the Charter of the United Nations,
threats to international peace and security caused by terrorist acts.
The members of the Security Council reminded States that they must
ensure that measures taken to combat terrorism comply with all their
obligations under international law, in particular international human
rights, refugee and humanitarian law.

The members of the Security Council reiterated their determination to
combat all forms of terrorism, in accordance with their
responsibilities under the Charter of the United Nations.

The members of the Security Council reiterated that no terrorist act
can reverse the path towards peace, democracy and reconstruction in
Afghanistan, which is supported by the people and the Government of
Afghanistan and the international community.

((M2 Communications Ltd disclaims all liability for information
provided within
Further information on
http://www.presswire.net on the world wide web. Inquiries to
info@m2.com)).

LOAD-DATE: February 12, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newswire

JOURNAL-CODE: M2P


                      Copyright 2009 Normans Media Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              333 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                                  M2 PressWIRE

                           February 12, 2009 Thursday

United Nations: Secretary-General Condemns In Strongest Possible Terms Terrorist
Attacks In Kabul, Says 'Horrendous Crime' Targeted People Committed To Building
Better Future

LENGTH: 191 words


Condemns In Strongest Possible Terms Terrorist Attacks In Kabul, Says
'Horrendous Crime' Targeted People Committed To Building Better Future

The following statement was issued today by the Spokesperson for UN
Secretary-General Ban Ki-moon:

The Secretary-General condemns in the strongest possible terms today's
acts of terrorism against Government buildings in Kabul, which took the
lives of at least 20 people and injured many more. The
Secretary-General is appalled by these coordinated attacks, targeting
the people and institutions that are committed to building a better
future for Afghanistan.

This horrendous crime was committed against innocent civilians with
total disrespect for human life and dignity. The United Nations stands
shoulder to shoulder with the Afghan people and Government in
condemning today's attacks.

The Secretary-General expresses his condolences to the families of
those killed and his wishes for a full recovery to those who have been
wounded.

((M2 Communications Ltd disclaims all liability for information
provided within
Further information on
http://www.presswire.net on the world wide web. Inquiries to
info@m2.com)).

LOAD-DATE: February 12, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newswire

JOURNAL-CODE: M2P


                      Copyright 2009 Normans Media Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              334 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                                The West Briton

                               February 12, 2009

School choir's trip to New York is an 'incredible experience';
Pupils from a Truro school have had the experience of a lifetime on a trip to
the Big Apple - including singing at the site of the 9/11 terror attack.

SECTION: Pg. 10

LENGTH: 183 words


The action-packed visit to New York also saw the youngsters from Truro High
School for Girls perform from a barge floating in the Hudson River, at a gospel
church in Harlem and at the world's largest Gothic cathedral, St John the
Divine.

And an emotional highlight came when they sang The Lord's Prayer at Ground Zero,
the former site of the World Trade Centre's Twin Towers.

The 62-strong party of girls, teachers and some parents also managed to squeeze
in a trip to see Phantom of the Opera on Broadway, a visit to Birdland Jazz Club
and an "exciting" evening at Ellen's Stardust Diner, where Broadway hopefuls
sing to customers as they serve.

The school's director of music, Frances Eagar, said: "It was an incredible
experience for everyone who went.

"Singing at Ground Zero was profoundly moving and the reception we got
everywhere we sang was tremendous - the congregation at the gospel church in
Harlem even described us as 'angels' who had just delivered the best Christmas
present.

"The choir goes abroad each year but our New York tour has to rank as one of the
most exciting and   memorable."

LOAD-DATE: August 21, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: 61


                         Copyright 2009 The West Briton
                              All Rights Reserved

                              335 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                                The West Briton

                               February 12, 2009

School choir's trip to New York is an 'incredible experience';
Pupils from a Truro school have had the experience of a lifetime on a trip to
the Big Apple - including singing at the site of the 9/11 terror attack.

SECTION: Pg. 10

LENGTH: 183 words


The action-packed visit to New York also saw the youngsters from Truro High
School for Girls perform from a barge floating in the Hudson River, at a gospel
church in Harlem and at the world's largest Gothic cathedral, St John the
Divine.

And an emotional highlight came when they sang The Lord's Prayer at Ground Zero,
the former site of the World Trade Centre's Twin Towers.

The 62-strong party of girls, teachers and some parents also managed to squeeze
in a trip to see Phantom of the Opera on Broadway, a visit to Birdland Jazz Club
and an "exciting" evening at Ellen's Stardust Diner, where Broadway hopefuls
sing to customers as they serve.

The school's director of music, Frances Eagar, said: "It was an incredible
experience for everyone who went.

"Singing at Ground Zero was profoundly moving and the reception we got
everywhere we sang was tremendous - the congregation at the gospel church in
Harlem even described us as 'angels' who had just delivered the best Christmas
present.

"The choir goes abroad each year but our New York tour has to rank as one of the
most exciting and   memorable."

LOAD-DATE: February 13, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: 61


                         Copyright 2009 The West Briton
                              All Rights Reserved

                              336 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                                The West Briton

                               February 12, 2009

School choir's trip to New York is an 'incredible experience';
Pupils from a Truro school have had the experience of a lifetime on a trip to
the Big Apple - including singing at the site of the 9/11 terror attack.

SECTION: Pg. 10

LENGTH: 183  words


The action-packed visit to New York also saw the youngsters from Truro High
School for Girls perform from a barge floating in the Hudson River, at a gospel
church in Harlem and at the world's largest Gothic cathedral, St John the
Divine.

And an emotional highlight came when they sang The Lord's Prayer at Ground Zero,
the former site of the World Trade Centre's Twin Towers.

The 62-strong party of girls, teachers and some parents also managed to squeeze
in a trip to see Phantom of the Opera on Broadway, a visit to Birdland Jazz Club
and an "exciting" evening at Ellen's Stardust Diner, where Broadway hopefuls
sing to customers as they serve.

The school's director of music, Frances Eagar, said: "It was an incredible
experience for everyone who went.

"Singing at Ground Zero was profoundly moving and the reception we got
everywhere we sang was tremendous - the congregation at the gospel church in
Harlem even described us as 'angels' who had just delivered the best Christmas
present.

"The choir goes abroad each year but our New York tour has to rank as one of the
most exciting and   memorable."

LOAD-DATE: June 11, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: 61


                         Copyright 2009 The West Briton
                              All Rights Reserved

                              337 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring South Asia - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                            February 13, 2009 Friday

India: Mumbai police chief backtracks on remarks on local role in terror attacks

LENGTH: 472 words


Text of report by Press Trust of India news agency

Mumbai, 12 February [Thursday]: After admitting for the first time there was
local support for the Mumbai terror attack leaving the Government embarrassed,
Police Commissioner Hasan Gafoor tonight backtracked from his remarks in which
he said some Indian nationals were among the 16 men, including Pakistanis,
wanted for their role in the carnage.

When asked by reporters how many more are still wanted in connection with 26/11
shortly after Pakistan gave its first formal response to the Indian dossier,
Gafoor in remarks seen as lending weight to claims of possible local support
said: "Fourteen to sixteen men, which includes Indians and Pakistanis, are
wanted in the attacks."

In an apparent damage control exercise, Gafoor quickly clarified claiming what
he had to say was that 16 Pakistanis are involved in the 26/11 strikes, of whom
nine have been killed while one terrorist-Ajmal Kasab- was captured and six were
still wanted. The six Pakistanis included Lashkar-i-Toiba commander and
suspected 26/11 mastermind Zaki-ur Rahman Lakhvi and Zarar Shah, he said.

"Why should we talk to Pakistan about Indians," Gafoor said while backtracking
on his earlier remarks.

Gafoor earlier had also said that two Indians have already been arrested, a
reference to Fahim Ansari and Sahabuddin, who hail from Uttar Pradesh.

The local link to 26/11 had also triggered a slugfest between Gujarat Chief
Minister Narendra Modi and Union Home Minister P. Chidambaram.

Gafoor in his second round of remarks said: "We are in fact asking them
(Pakistan) about Pakistani nationals who are involved in Mumbai attack."

Gafoor had earlier said: "We have included names of these men (16 men) in a
dossier which has been sent to Pakistan." It was not immediately clear which
dossier he was referring to, whether it was the Indian document given to
Pakistan on January five or a separate dossier furnished by the Mumbai police.

Those wanted in the attacks had conducted "recce", given financial and
logistical support and "they belonged to North India", he added.

"Two Indians have already been arrested while some are absconding about whom we
have informed to Pakistan. So there are Indians as well as Pakistanis," the
commissioner said.

Asked why names of Indians have been mentioned in the dossier, Gafoor said they
likely escaped from India, and "we suspect that they might be hiding in
Pakistan".

Maharashtra Home Minister Jayant Patil said so far there is no evidence of any
local support in the attack.

Chidambaram when asked about Modi's remarks that the Mumbai terror attacks would
not have been possible without support from locals said yesterday: "You should
ask Narendra Modi whether he and Pakistan are in contact with each other."

Source: PTI news agency, New Delhi, in English 0000gmt 13 Feb 09

LOAD-DATE: February 13, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2009 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              338 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                          The Guardian - Final Edition

                            February 13, 2009 Friday

Mumbai terror attack planned in Pakistan, top official admits: Statement
reverses earlier denials by Islamabad India welcomes arrests of six militant
suspects

BYLINE: Saeed Shah, Islamabad

SECTION: GUARDIAN INTERNATIONAL PAGES; Pg. 21

LENGTH: 551 words


Last November's terrorist attack on Mumbai was planned and launched from
Pakistan, authorities in Islamabad said for the first time yesterday, as they
revealed they were holding six suspects in connection with the assault.

Pakistan's interior ministry accused eight people of masterminding the atrocity
in which 170 people were killed. Six of those are in custody and cases against
all the accused were filed yesterday. The ministry said most, possibly all,
belonged to Lashkar-e-Taiba, a Pakistan-based militant group which India had
accused of carrying out the attack .

Never before has Pakistan appeared to take such action against a significant
jihadist outfit in the country. It had been unclear until yesterday whether
there was a serious investigation going on in Pakistan, amid Islamabad's denials
that there was any proof its citizens were involved. The outcome was welcomed in
India as a "positive development".

"Some part of the conspiracy has taken place in Pakistan," Rehman Malik, the
prime minister's adviser on internal affairs said yesterday. "I want to assure
the international community, I want to assure all those who have been victims of
terrorism, that we mean business."

Among those being held, said Malik, was Hamad Amin Sadiq, 38, whom he described
as the "main operator". Sadiq had not previously been named as a suspect.

A resident of Karachi, he is believed to be a senior member of Lashkar-e-Taiba
and originally from the south of Punjab province, a region known as a hotbed for
religious militancy.

Malik said Pakistani investigators had discovered one of the boats used by the
Mumbai assailants and found the crew, confirming that they set off from Karachi.
They traced the shop in Karachi where a boat engine was bought to power the
inflatable craft used to land in India as well as the bank account used for
payment.

The group had made extensive use of international internet and telephone
communications, Malik said. One suspect, a man named Javed Iqbal, who lived in
Barcelona, set up phone accounts in Europe, which allowed the attackers to make
calls over the internet. He was "lured" back to Pakistan during the
investigation and arrested. Phones were used by the attackers in Mumbai to keep
in touch with their handlers throughout the operation.

Malik said the conspirators were "non-state actors", a response to earlier
Indian accusations that the Pakistani state - especially its Inter-Services
Intelligence Agency - orchestrated the attack.

The leaders of Lashkar-e-Taiba, including founder Hafiz Saeed, were placed under
house arrest soon after the attack, but the Pakistani investigation made no
claims against them. Only one of the 10 gunmen, Ajmal Kasab, was captured alive.
The investigators have been unable to trace the origins of any of the nine
others saying that not enough information on them had been provided by India.

Islamabad has submitted 30 questions to India and said its investigators have
not seen notes from the interrogation of Kasab. "We will continue our
investigation, but we want tenable evidence from India. We want full cooperation
from India so that this kind of ring be smashed," said Malik.

There were reports in Pakistan last night that the trial of the accused would be
held at a special court inside the top security Adiala jail, near Islamabad.

LOAD-DATE: February 13, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2009 Guardian Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              339 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                                   The Mirror

                            February 13, 2009 Friday
                                 3 Star Edition

SIX ARRESTED FOR MUMBAI ATTACK PLOT;
TERROR

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 35

LENGTH: 97 words


SIX militants suspected of planning the Mumbai attacks which left 179 people
dead were arrested in Pakistan yesterday.

Their capture is the first admission by the Islamabad government that part of
the terror plot was carried out in its country.

Tensions with India have been high after its neighbour claimed last November's
attacks were hatched in Pakistan. But Islamabad declared yesterday: "Some of the
conspiracy has taken place in Pakistan."

The suspects arrested were from terror group Laskhar-e-Taiba. Nine gunmen were
killed in the Mumbai attacks. The only one caught was Pakistani.

LOAD-DATE: February 13, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: CARNAGE Mumbai aftermath

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                            Copyright 2009 MGN Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              340 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                      Western Morning News (Plymouth, UK)

                            February 13, 2009 Friday

Pakistan admits terrorist planner;
The Mumbai attacks were partly planned in Pakistan and several of the known
suspects are being held, Pakistan's top civilian security official said
yesterday. It was the first time Pakistan has acknowledged the conspiracy behind
the attacks may have originated in any form on its soil. It already has
acknowledged the sole gunman captured alive was Pakistani. interior ministry
chief, Rehman Malik ,made the comments during a briefing on a probe into the
attacks. The November assault on India's commercial capital killed 164 people.
India says all the 10 gunmen were Pakistani.

SECTION: Pg. 16

LENGTH: 111 words


Belgian police were yesterday hunting an armed robber who carried out a raid on
a bank inside the European Parliament's headquarters in Brussels. MEPs and
Parliament staff were ordered to stay in their offices after a man wielding a
gun vaulted the counter of the ING branch on the ground floor and demanded
money. Soon afterwards the building was swarming with police amid fears that the
gunman was still on the loose in the building. But as a helicopter hovered
overhead, police said it was believed the robber had escaped. It was not clear
what was stolen but it is believed no-one was hurt.

Gunman hits EU HQ

Bush fire kills Briton

Closure stuns staff

Facebook lawsuit

LOAD-DATE: August 21, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: 83


                 Copyright 2009 Western Morning News (Plymouth)
                              All Rights Reserved

                              341 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                      Western Morning News (Plymouth, UK)

                            February 13, 2009 Friday

Pakistan admits terrorist planner;
The Mumbai attacks were partly planned in Pakistan and several of the known
suspects are being held, Pakistan's top civilian security official said
yesterday. It was the first time Pakistan has acknowledged the conspiracy behind
the attacks may have originated in any form on its soil. It already has
acknowledged the sole gunman captured alive was Pakistani. interior ministry
chief, Rehman Malik ,made the comments during a briefing on a probe into the
attacks. The November assault on India's commercial capital killed 164 people.
India says all the 10 gunmen were Pakistani.

SECTION: Pg. 16

LENGTH: 111 words


Belgian police were yesterday hunting an armed robber who carried out a raid on
a bank inside the European Parliament's headquarters in Brussels. MEPs and
Parliament staff were ordered to stay in their offices after a man wielding a
gun vaulted the counter of the ING branch on the ground floor and demanded
money. Soon afterwards the building was swarming with police amid fears that the
gunman was still on the loose in the building. But as a helicopter hovered
overhead, police said it was believed the robber had escaped. It was not clear
what was stolen but it is believed no-one was hurt.

Gunman hits EU HQ

Bush fire kills Briton

Closure stuns staff

Facebook lawsuit

LOAD-DATE: February 14, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: 83


                 Copyright 2009 Western Morning News (Plymouth)
                              All Rights Reserved

                              342 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                      Western Morning News (Plymouth, UK)

                            February 13, 2009 Friday

Pakistan admits terrorist planner;
The Mumbai attacks were partly planned in Pakistan and several of the known
suspects are being held, Pakistan's top civilian security official said
yesterday. It was the first time Pakistan has acknowledged the conspiracy behind
the attacks may have originated in any form on its soil. It already has
acknowledged the sole gunman captured alive was Pakistani. interior ministry
chief, Rehman Malik ,made the comments during a briefing on a probe into the
attacks. The November assault on India's commercial capital killed 164 people.
India says all the 10 gunmen were Pakistani.

SECTION: Pg. 16

LENGTH: 111  words


Belgian police were yesterday hunting an armed robber who carried out a raid on
a bank inside the European Parliament's headquarters in Brussels. MEPs and
Parliament staff were ordered to stay in their offices after a man wielding a
gun vaulted the counter of the ING branch on the ground floor and demanded
money. Soon afterwards the building was swarming with police amid fears that the
gunman was still on the loose in the building. But as a helicopter hovered
overhead, police said it was believed the robber had escaped. It was not clear
what was stolen but it is believed no-one was hurt.

Gunman hits EU HQ

Bush fire kills Briton

Closure stuns staff

Facebook lawsuit

LOAD-DATE: June 11, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: 83


                 Copyright 2009 Western Morning News (Plymouth)
                              All Rights Reserved

                              343 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                       BBC Monitoring Europe - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                           February 14, 2009 Saturday

Probe reveals Italian link in Indian terrorist attacks

LENGTH: 673 words


Text of report by Italian leading privately-owned centre-right daily Corriere
della Sera website, on 13 February

[Report by Guido Olimpio and Fiorenza Sarzanini: "Money From Italy for Mumbai
Attacks"]

The Mumbai terrorists placed their trust in faith and technology. With the first
they all met death, except for one. With the second  - -in the shape of mobile
phones, phone chips, and satellite phones  - -they simplified a complex plan,
but in the end they left important traces. And those traces, which emerged after
large-scale investigative work which involved Indians, Pakistanis, European
police forces, and a US body, the NSA, have revealed interesting surprises.

Thus it has emerged that the extremists from Lashkar-e-toiba (which, on November
26 2008, launched simultaneous attacks in the south of Mumbai, before
surrendering once and for all after three days) were able to rely on funding
from Italy and from Spain. Perhaps only a few hundred euros, but the money shows
that, in Islamist terrorism, the local element immediately becomes global.

It was the adviser to Pakistan's interior minister, Rehman Malik, who provided
the details of the plot, admitting that the militants had an important base in
his country. "Part of the plot took place in Pakistan," was the statement
finally made by the representative of Islamabad, who for two and a half months
had rejected the very strongly-worded accusations of New Delhi.

After a long investigation, the police also established that accomplices of the
armed group, resident abroad, had a significant logistical role. Some of them in
Italy and in Spain supplied the money to buy digital telephone numbers, which
enabled the terrorists to communicate via the Internet. And it appears that the
trail of the money has also been found in Islamabad, too.

Italian investigative sources have specified that, in the last few weeks,
Pakistan has forwarded a couple of telephone numbers present in our country, and
which may be linked to the attack plan. But the checks are still under way, and
are bound up with a more careful survey, to identify any possible members of
Indian or Pakistani radical groups. Small-scale presences which in the past have
emerged in Lombardy, with a couple of important figures, in central and southern
Italy.

There have been important developments in Spain, where "an interesting
individual" has been found, Javed Iqbal, resident in Barcelona. Drawn to his
home country on a pretext, he was later arrested. The man is understood to have
purchased a digital number which was later registered with a server in Texas.
Another individual  - -whose identity has not been revealed  - -later provided a
Turaya satellite phone, which was bought "in a Middle Eastern country," and
which was later handed over to the militants. Meanwhile, a couple of [mobile]
phone chips, inserted in the mobile phones which were supplied to the hitmen,
were of Austrian origin: a Lashkar-e-toiba sympathizer is believed to have
bought them in Vienna.

Rehman Malik went on to reveal the arrest of 5 people, including the leader of
the network, Zaki Ur Rehman, a high-ranking leader of Lashkar, and his
"lieutenant" Zarar Shah, the communications expert. With the help of a number of
trusted men, they made two small cargo ships available  - -the "Al Husseini"
(which was later sunk) and the "Al Fauz"  - -as well as dinghies, outboard
motors, arms, and food. This logistical activity took place on none other than
Pakistani soil, and in the area of Karachi.

The admissions of Islamabad were greeted with satisfaction by the government in
New Delhi - a "positive step"  - -although experts continue to suspect that the
assailants had the support of members of the Pakistani intelligence service, the
ISI.

And Indian sources add that they fear the elimination of the only surviving
terrorist, Ajmal Kasab. Dawood Ibrahim, a mafia boss linked to the intelligence
services, is reported to have entered into "a contract" to have him killed.

Source: Corriere della Sera website, Milan, in Italian 13 Feb 09

LOAD-DATE: February 14, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2009 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              344 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                 BBC Monitoring Former Soviet Union - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                           February 14, 2009 Saturday

Russia: FSB prevented terrorist attacks against Ingushetia's leadership

LENGTH: 185 words


Text of report by state-controlled Russian Channel One TV on 14 February

The Russian Federal Security Service (FSB) has said that its employees have
prevented a series of large-scale terrorist attacks against the new leadership
of Ingushetia. The FSB public relations centre made public the details of an
operation in Nazran as a result of which a group of militants was eliminated on
Thursday [12 February]. They were hiding in a privately-owned house and, first,
put up armed resistance when attempts were made to detain them and then, when
the house was surrounded, they blew up the building.

The clear-up of the rubble has been completed. One of the killed rebels, Khasan
Mutaliyev, was identified. He is believed to be involved in a series of
explosions. According to the FSB, in January Mutaliyev began to prepare
terrorist attacks against high-ranking officials of Ingushetia. For that, he
arrived in Nazran with a group of saboteurs.

They turned the cellar of the house into a laboratory for making bombs. Over 1 t
of explosives was found there.

Source: Channel One TV, Moscow, in Russian 0900 gmt 14 Feb 09

LOAD-DATE: February 14, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2009 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              345 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                       BBC Monitoring Europe - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                           February 14, 2009 Saturday

Spanish interior minister asks Pakistan for data on Mumbai terrorist attacks

LENGTH: 526 words


Text of report by Spanish newspaper ABC website, on 13 February

[Report by D. Martinez: "Interior Ministry Asks for Information Linking
Barcelona To Mumbai Attack From Pakistan"]

Yesterday, the Pakistani interior minister created a sensation in Islamabad by
saying that one of the suspects involved in the Mumbai attacks (on 26 November)
had lived in Barcelona and that funds had been transferred from Spain to finance
the terrorist attack in which 179 people were killed. A group of Spaniards,
including the Madrid region's first minister, had been caught in the middle of
the attack.

It did not take long for the shock wave to reach the Spanish Interior Ministry.
After it became aware of these data indirectly, through news agency reports, the
ministry headed by Alfredo Perez Rubalcaba through official channels asked the
Pakistani Government for the information linking the terrorists to Spain. The
aim of the request is to confirm the information in this country.

In this context, it should be recalled that state security forces have
dismantled various Pakistani terrorist cells close to Al-Qa'idah in Catalonia in
recent years. These terrorist cells were in charge of transferring funds to
Pakistan. This is in addition to another fact to which the experts on
international terrorism attached a great deal of importance: The Lashkar-e-Taiba
[Army of God] terrorist organization, which is considered to be responsible for
the massacre in Mumbai, has a large number of followers in Catalonia and La
Rioja [Spanish region].

These experts, apart from expressing their surprise at the way in which the
Pakistani Government has revealed the alleged links, stressed the importance of
the information, as well as of the impact on security.

Pakistani Interior Minister Rehman Malik, who told the media that "Pakistan
needs information from Spain" to continue the investigations into the attacks,
revealed that Javed Iqbal, one of the detainees, had lived in Barcelona and had
been persuaded to return to Pakistan from Barcelona. This individual, who has
provided the names of other accomplices, made a payment of $238 for the use of
the internet.

Similarly, Malik explained that the investigators had discovered that some of
the funds transferred from Italy and Spain and Austrian SIM cards had been used
to finance the attacks. He even mentioned links to Houston (United States).
Malik also acknowledged that "part" of the Mumbai attacks had been hatched in
Pakistan.

The minister explained how the investigators had come to these conclusions.
First, they had found the owner of the shop where the terrorists purchased the
dinghy in which they arrived at Mumbai. And he provided the telephone number
that the client who bought the dinghy had left. It was a key clue, because it
led to a bank account in the name of a suspect linked to the attack. "He gave us
other clues, which we do not want to reveal," the minister said. He added that
the email accounts of various suspects were also analysed during the
investigation. A total of six Pakistanis have been arrested. Malik accused them
of committing "cybercrimes."

Source: ABC website, Madrid, in Spanish 13 Feb 09

LOAD-DATE: February 14, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2009 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              346 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                                  Daily Record

                           February 16, 2009, Monday

TERROR AS BUS NED ATTACKS DRIVER

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 198 words


A BUS driver was attacked by a ned in a busy city street.

The thug was with a gang who shouted abuse as they went to get off his bus.

The driver was taken to hospital for treatment after one of them seriously
assaulted him.

The incident took place around 9.40pm on Saturday as the No40 bus drove along
Glasgow's Hope Street.

As they approached a stop near the Watt Brothers store, the gang began hurling
abuse at the 31-year-old driver.

It is thought the driver may have been stabbed during the unprovoked attack but
last night, police were unable to confirm this.

He was later released from Glasgow Royal Infirmary after treatment.

A spokeswoman for First Bus described the attack as "an appalling and
frightening ordeal".

She added: "Our driver was seriously injured in the assault but, fortunately, is
now at home recovering.

"The driver was simply doing his job and it is not acceptable that an employee
providing a public service is subjected to physical abuse like this."

Detective Constable Jim Duncan, from Partick CID, said: "Usually this area is
quite busy with pedestrians and motorists.

"I would appeal to anyone who was either on the bus or at one of the bus stops
to get in touch with us."

LOAD-DATE: February 16, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


            Copyright 2009 Scottish Daily Record & Sunday Mail Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              347 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring South Asia - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                          February 18, 2009 Wednesday

India: US activist says Mumbai terror attack example of "negative conflict"

LENGTH: 822 words


Text of report by Indian news agency PTI

New Delhi, 17 February: Describing the Mumbai terror carnage as an example of
"negative conflict", American civil rights activist Martin Luther King III
Tuesday [17 February] appealed to the world to adopt a "positive pattern of
peace" to meet the challenges of this age and end war between nations.

"We must be committed, not only to ending war between nations but also to all
forms of violence," he said delivering the Maulana Azad Memorial Lecture on the
topic "A New Non-violent Revolution".

Contending that the world cries out for a new leadership with a vision to take
on the challenges of this age, he said every nation should make stronger efforts
to prepare its people to be "makers of peace, not war."

"We must create a generation who understands that peace is not just the goal but
the way! If we accept this challenge, we can put an end to war and terrorism
throughout the world," he said.

"And we can give the clarion call to invest the resources of every nation in
human development instead of military arsenals," he said.

Martin Luther King III, son of legendary civil rights activist Martin Luther
King Jr, said if the world is committed to be committed followers of Gandhi and
King Jr, "we must be committed, not only to ending war between nations but also
to all forms of violence."

Martin Luther King III, who is here to trace his father's pilgrimage to India 50
years back, said violence may be manifested in many forms including physical,
institutional and structural. All three forms are often present in a conflict
situation and mutually reinforcing and breed powerlessness, he said.

He said leaders like Maulana Abul Kalam Azad, Mahatma Gandhi, Jawaharlal Nehru
and Mother Teresa are "truly gifts to all people of the world from their mother
India."

The civil rights activist said the champions of peace like King Jr and Gandhi
understood that war is not justified as a necessary evil and that the end does
not justify the means.

He said the there should be a world where poverty, racism and militarism, the
"triple evils," did not exist.

"This vision of my father was, of course, shared by Mahatma Gandhi who linked
the progress of the future to eradicating poverty through non-violent means. If
we are to be followers of the path worn by their mighty footsteps, it is our
duty to act towards the achievement of all their goals."

He said conflict is an inevitable occurrence in many places but conflict is not
necessarily a bad thing, as long as it is peaceful.

"In fact, peaceful conflict can be creative by forcing us to respond to the
world's changing realities in a more effective way that benefits all parties,"
King III said.

The civil rights activist said violence in families and between different groups
in communities was a very urgent concern and advocated that children should get
their earliest training on how to respond to conflict.

He said the lessons learned from the civil rights movement in the US are
instructive and that they were rooted in the philosophy of non-violence.

King III said as a path to peace, non-violence is a means to and end.

"A central idea in the philosophy of non-violence is the relationship between
means and ends: the means for achieving a goal are reflected in that goal's
attainment. The means are in the end," he said.

The philosophy of non-violence is not exclusive to any one religion or region
and the power of non-violence is available to people in all races, all cultures
and all nations at all times, he said.

"It is no secret that the philosophy of non-violence is well-reflected in the
teachings of the great prophets of human history," King III said.

He said too often the sacred principles of faith get overshadowed by territorial
disputes, nationalism and the kind of fundamentalist fanaticism that dehumanises
people of other faiths.

That is what we saw in the United States on 11 September 2001. It is what we
witnessed in the recent Mumbai attacks last November. The religious leaders of
the nations, cities and villages of our world must come forward from the shadows
and call for an end to the killing," King III said.

He said Gandhi and King Jr had a vision not just for the US, but for making the
world a better place.

"In their global vision, poverty, hunger and homelessness will not be tolerated
because international standards of human decency will not allow it," he said.

The civil rights activist said "let us dare to realise the dream of a world
where every family has decent shelter, employment for their breadwinners and
educational opportunities for its young people."

"Let us dare to realise the dream of a new global era, when the armaments of
annihilation are replaced with the plowshares of renewal."

He said with this commitment everyone should spread message of peace through
non-violence and ignite a non-violent revolution.

Source: PTI news agency, New Delhi, in English 2018gmt 17 Feb 09

LOAD-DATE: February 18, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2009 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              348 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                                   The Mirror

                          February 18, 2009 Wednesday
                                 Ulster Edition

GRANNY'S TERROR AS GUNMEN BLAST FLAT;
ATTACK LINKED TO SON-IN-LAW'S KILLING

BYLINE: BY MAURICE FITZMAURICE

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 23

LENGTH: 287 words


A GRANNY whose son-in-law was hacked to death told yesterday how she feared for
her family's life after her homewas blasted with a shotgun.

Bridget Mongan, 55, and her 12-year-old granddaughter Louise Ward suffered
severe shock after shots were fired through the front window of her flat on
Monday night.

She was in the kitchen at the back of her home when a black Audi pulled up and a
gunman opened fire.

Mrs Mongan said she has been attacked a number of times since the murder of John
Mongan a year ago.

And the shooting came just hours before two men were arrested in Co Fermanagh by
police officers investigating the killing.

Speaking from her home on the Suffolk Road, West Belfast, she said: "When I
heard the shots, I thought they came in the bedroom window, where my husband was
lying, and I shouted for him to answer me.

"My granddaughter was trembling and shouting, 'Granny get the police'."

The Audi believed to have been used in the attack was found burned out a short
distance away in the Glenside Road area of the city.

Soon after police announced they had arrested two men aged 19 and 17 while a
20-year-old suspect is also is custody.

The shotgun attack is believed by her to be linked to a dispute within the
Traveller community.

As well as being mother-inlaw to the murder victim Mrs Mongan is related to some
of the three people awaiting trial charged with his killing.

Mr Mongan, 30, was brutally hacked and beaten to death in front of his heavily
pregnant wife Julia at their home in West Belfast's Fallswater Street on
February 7 last year. Two men aged 32 and 36 and a 15-year-old boy - were
charged several months ago with the murder.

Louise was trembling and then said, 'Granny phone the police'.

BRIDGET MONGAN

LOAD-DATE: February 18, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: MURDERED Mongan; TARGETED Bridget Mongan & grandaughter Louise Ward
yesterday after they were treated for severe shock; DAMAGE Family home

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                            Copyright 2009 MGN Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              349 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                          The Guardian - Final Edition

                            February 20, 2009 Friday

International: Greece: Bank targeted by bomb as terror attacks grow

BYLINE: Helena Smith, Athens

SECTION: GUARDIAN FINANCIAL PAGES; Pg. 25

LENGTH: 97 words


A spate of terrorism has followed social unrest in Greece over the recession. A
car bomb left outside Citibank's headquarters in Athens on Wednesday had the
potential to kill hundreds of people, but was defused after masked men were
spotted. On Tuesday, gunmen fired on a TV station, and bullet casings from the
attack matched those used in an attack on a police station two weeks earlier by
an unknown group, the Revolutionary Faction. Declaring "we don't do politics, we
do guerrilla warfare", the gang vowed to kill police and "prominent Greeks"
including media stars and politicians.

LOAD-DATE: February 20, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2009 Guardian Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              350 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                            The Independent (London)

                            February 20, 2009 Friday
                                 First Edition

Qatada wins £2,500 for illegal detention;
European Court ruling on arrest of terror suspects after September 11 attacks

BYLINE: Robert Verkaik LAW EDITOR

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 562 words


SECRET HEARINGS used to detain foreign terror suspects were thrown into doubt
yesterday after judges in Europe ordered ministers to pay thousands of pounds of
compensation to 11 men who were unlawfully imprisoned after the 9/11 attacks on
America.

The European Court of Human Rights judgment paves the way for the radical
preacher Abu Qatada to appeal against his detention and be released on bail
during his battle to stay in Britain. On Wednesday the House of Lords ruled that
the Home Secretary could deport Mr Qatada to Jordan and two Algerians to their
home countries despite fears that they faced torture.

Mr Qatada was returned to Belmarsh high security prison last year after an
immigration tribunal ruled there was a risk of him breaching the terms of his
bail. But that decision, by the Special Immigration Appeals Commission (Siac),
was based largely on evidence held in secret.

Yesterday the European Court of Human Rights ruled hearings which relied on
secret evidence were in breach of suspects' human rights, but only awarded him
£2,500 compensation.

The published evidence against three of the 11 terror suspects in yesterday's
case consisted "purely of general assertions", the court ruled. Siac decisions,
when based "solely or to a decisive degree on closed material" were unlawful, it
said.

But the judges ruled the suspects' conditions of detention had not reached the
"high threshold" of inhuman and degrading treatment for which a human rights
violation could be found. However, the rules had "discriminated unjustifiably"
between UK nationals and non-nationals - targeting only non-UK citizens. Mr
Qatada's lawyers have submitted an application to the European Court appealing
against his deportation.

Shami Chakrabarti, director of human rights group Liberty, said: "Of course the
Court of Human Rights has vindicated the law lords' 2004 ruling that detention
without trial was a bad policy that failed to address either fairness or
security; £2 per day of unlawful detention is hardly hitting the jackpot. While
the damages will disappoint the detainees, they explode the myth of the human
rights compensation culture."

Mr Qatada was first detained in 2002, when the UK's Special Immigration Appeals
Commission described him as a "truly dangerous individual". In 2005 he was
arrested in preparation for his deportation to Jordan, but was again released on
appeal.

He was returned to jail last November and remains in Belmarsh high security
prison.

The court also awarded payouts of between £1,500 and £3,400 to 10 other men
detained in Britain following 9/11 on suspicion of providing support for
extremists linked to al-Qa'ida.

The Home Secretary, Jacqui Smith, said she was "very disappointed" with the
compensation given to the men. She said: "This judgment is based on historic
legislation that we repealed nearly four years ago. I am pleased that the court
recognised that these old measures were devised in good faith."

She added: "These men have all been found by our courts to present a threat to
our national security. We argued strongly to the European Court that
compensation should not be awarded to such individuals.

"While I am very disappointed with any award, I recognise the court has made
substantially lower awards than these men sought in view of the fact these
measures were devised in the face of a public emergency."

LEADING ARTICLE, PAGE 34

LOAD-DATE: February 19, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: IA


                      Copyright 2009 Independent Print Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                              351 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                            BBC Monitoring Kiev Unit
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                           February 21, 2009 Saturday

Ukrainian peacekeepers said to prevent terror attack in Kosovo

LENGTH: 408 words


Text of report by Ukrainian newspaper Narodna Armiya on 21 February

Ukrainian peacekeepers of the joint Ukrainian-Polish peacekeeping battalion of
the KFOR international tactical group East have ensured peace and order in their
assigned region on 17 February when Kosovo Albanians celebrated Kosovo's
independence unilaterally declared by the Kosovo parliament, the Ukrainian
Defence Ministry's press service has said.

The day before and on the day of the celebrations the Ukrainian peacekeepers
together with the international UN police intensified their efforts and took
their assigned region, the municipality Strpce, under special control.

A total of 109 Ukrainian peacekeepers and 17 military hardware units were
engaged in procedures to ensure security and order. In one day, on 16 February,
Ukrainian peacekeepers made seven patrols, searched 39 cars and 92 people for
the presence of weapons, drugs and other controlled substances and objects.

Because of the educational work conducted by the Ukrainian peacekeepers with the
local population to heighten their awareness of danger, a terrorist attack was
prevented in the administrative centre of the Strpce municipality. On 16
February at about 2000 local time an owner of a Serbian cafe "Viva" in Strpce
and its customers detained a visitor whose behaviour raised their concerns. The
suspect who had an explosive device turned out to be a resident of Stasovo
village of the Kachanik municipality, a Kosovo Albanian, Arbek Khisa.

The locals immediately called police and the Ukrainian peacekeeping patrol
stationed nearby.

The head of the patrol, Oleksandr Lunyov, having informed the duty officer of
the camp Breza, arranged the security of the cafe at once. A police patrol
brought the criminal in handcuffs to a police station, while a reserve group of
the Ukrainian peacekeepers headed by the deputy commander of the peacekeeping
contingent, major Valeriy Kurach, together with the patrolling servicemen
blocked the roads towards the cafe and protected the cafe and the police station
from the crowds who were about to turn to lynch law over the terrorist.

American sappers called to the scene found a ready-to-use anti-personnel PMR-2
mine made in Yugoslavia in the terrorist's pocket.

After nearly an-hour long meeting by the police station the Serbs went away,
while reserve groups of the Ukrainian peacekeepers returned to their base.

Source: Narodna Armiya, Kiev, in Ukrainian 21 Feb 09

LOAD-DATE: February 21, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2009 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              352 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring Middle East - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                            February 23, 2009 Monday

Nine security guards said killed in "terrorist" attack east of Algiers

LENGTH: 105 words


Nine Algerian security guards have been killed and two wounded in a "terrorist"
attack east of Algiers, the privately-owned French-language newspaper El Watan
reported on 23 February.

The paper said the attack took place on 22 February at 1800 gmt in Ziama
Mansouriah, in Jijel Province, 350 km east of Algiers. The security guards were
working for the Algerian state-owned electricity and gas company Sonelgaz.

El Watan added that the security guards' base camp came first under home-made
bomb attack, and was then raided by an undetermined but "important" number of
assailants.

Source: El Watan website, Algiers, in French 23 Feb 09

LOAD-DATE: February 23, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2009 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              353 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                    BBC Monitoring Asia Pacific - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                            February 23, 2009 Monday

Singapore: Police arrest youth for sending SMS hoax on terrorist bombing attack

LENGTH: 255 words


Text of report by Singapore newspaper The Straits Times website on 22 February

[Unattributed report: "Youth held for SMS hoax - Message claimed terrorists were
planning to bomb the Bugis area"]

Police yesterday arrested a 19-year-old Singaporean male in connection with an
SMS hoax suggesting a terrorist attack in the Bugis area.

The police had received multiple calls since last Friday informing them of such
an SMS.

The SMS, which had several variations, stated that terrorists were planning to
bomb the Bugis area and that there were many policemen there. It advised the
public to avoid the area.

Said a police spokesman yesterday: 'Although there was no credible evidence to
suggest such an attack at that point in time, we took the information seriously
and immediately put in place necessary precautions to enhance security in the
area.

'We would like to assure the public that there is no cause for alarm as
investigations have revealed that the SMS was indeed unsubstantiated.'

He stressed that the police took a very stern view of any attempt to cause undue
public alarm or fear and would not hesitate to take action against such
perpetrators.

Anyone found guilty of such an offence may face a maximum of one year's
imprisonment, a fine of up to $5,000, or both.

At Bugis Junction yesterday afternoon, it was business as usual although some
shopkeepers said it was slightly less crowded than on a normal Saturday.

Police said investigations into the case are ongoing.

Source: The Straits Times website, Singapore, in English 22 Feb 09

LOAD-DATE: February 23, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2009 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              354 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                BreakingNews.ie

                     February 23, 2009 Monday 08:13 AM GMT

Woman killed in terror attack in Cairo

SECTION: WORLD NEWS

LENGTH: 588 words


An explosion ripped into a famous bazaar in Cairo, killing a French woman and
wounding at least 21 people, most of them foreigners.

An expert on Islamic extremism said yesterday's attack might have been a
response to Israel's deadly offensive in Gaza last month.

Tourism is one of Egypt's major sources of foreign income and has been a target
in past attempts to harm the government, which is now trying to negotiate a
long-term Gaza ceasefire. Yesterday's attack was the first on tourists in three
years.

The blast hit the bustling main plaza at the Khan el-Khalili, a 650-year-old
bazaar packed with tourists next to one of Cairo's most revered shrines, the
Hussein mosque.

Within an hour, police found a second explosive device and detonated it safely.
Security officials said three people were in custody.

Montasser el-Zayat, a lawyer who has represented Islamic extremists, told Arabic
news channel al-Jazeera the attack may be linked to anger over the Israeli
offensive.

"The nature of the explosion looks like an act carried out by young,
inexperienced amateurs whose emotions were inflamed by the events of Gaza," said
Mr el-Zayat, who once had links with extremist groups himself.

Egypt has been trying to broker a long-term ceasefire between Israel and the
Hamas militants who run Gaza. A fragile truce has been in place since Israel's
offensive left about 1,300 Palestinians dead.

Initial reports on the attack said a pair of grenades were thrown, but a
government statement said the attack involved a home-made bomb placed under a
bench in the main plaza.

"We were serving our customers as usual and all of a sudden there was a large
sound," said Magdy Ragab, 42, a waiter at a nearby cafe. "We saw heavy grey
smoke and there were people running everywhere ... Some people were injured by
the stampede, not the shrapnel."

A medic at the scene said the woman died in the intensive care unit of the
nearby Hussein hospital.

The wounded included three Saudis, 13 French, a German and four Egyptians,
including a child, the government said. The health minister said the injuries
were comparatively minor and most of the wounded would be released from the
hospital by today.

French president Nicolas Sarkozy expressed his condolences to the victim's
family and said he was confident that Egyptian authorities would "shed light on
the circumstances of this tragedy".

Blood stains marked the stones in front of the Hussein mosque where worshippers
had been conducting evening prayers.

"I was praying and there was a big boom and people started panicking and rushing
out of the mosque, then police came and sealed the main door, evacuating us out
of the back," said Mohammed Abdel Azim, 56.

Egypt fought a long war with Islamist militants in the 1990s, culminating in a
massacre of more than 50 tourists in Luxor in 1997. The rebels were largely
defeated and there have been few attacks since then in the Nile valley.

But from 2004 to 2006, a string of bombings against resorts in the Sinai
Peninsula killed 120 people, including in the Sinai's main resort of Sharm
el-Sheikh.

Cairo's Khan el-Khalili has been targeted before as well. In April 2005, a
suicide bomber killed two French citizens and an American.

One of Egypt's highest religious officials, Sheikh of Al-Azhar Mohammed Sayyed
Tantawi, called yesterday's attack "cowardly and criminal".

"Those who carried out this criminal act are traitors to their religion and
country and are distorting the image of Islam, which rejects terrorism and
prohibits the killing of innocents," he said.

LOAD-DATE: February 23, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication


                    Copyright 2009 Thomas Crosbie Media Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              355 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                                 Hereford Times

                            February 23, 2009 Monday

Hereford man jailed for late-night terror attack

SECTION: LOCAL NEWS CITY

LENGTH: 362 words


A HEREFORD man has been jailed after assaulting two women and a 13- year-old
girl in a terrifying late-night ordeal.

Johnathan Woodcock broke into a neighbour's bathroom where his cowering
girlfriend hid after an assault, heard Hereford Crown Court last Friday.

Woodcock, aged 37, of Regents Garden, College Estate, was jailed for three years
after admitting three counts of assault, and a further count of assault causing
actual bodily harm.

Alex Warren, prosecuting, told the court that Woodcock became violent on
November 20 after suspecting his girlfriend of seeing other people. Mr Warren
said the argument spilled onto the street outside his home and caused his
girlfriend to scream through a window for help.

"He apparently chased her into the bathroom and she was screaming hysterically
at the time," he said.

"When she came out, he pulled her hair, started banging her head against the
wall and pushed her fingers up her nose, causing it to bleed. He also punched
her in the face with a clenched fist, causing her to fall to the ground."

The court heard that the girlfriend tried going to sleep, but was assaulted
again.

The girlfriend eventually fled to a nearby house, where she hid in a bathroom
with a woman and a teenager.

"She tried to hide but Mr Woodcock burst in, punching the door which flung open
and hit a child, aged 13," he said.

"They went downstairs and he started punching her (the neighbour) before the
daughter tried to step in."

Mr Warren said the neighbour was punched twice in the face, while the daughter
was thrown across the room after trying to intervene. He said the police later
found Woodcock hiding in his loft, but the defendant remembered little of the
incident.

Andrew Davidson, for Woodcock, said the defendant had shown remorse for the
behaviour, and blamed a poor childhood.

"It doesn't excuse what he's done but it explains why he's lost his temper,"
said Mr Davidson. "He describes himself as being deeply ashamed for what he has
done and he recognised what he has effectively thrown away."

Judge Michael Mott gave Woodcock a 30-month sentence for assault causing actual
bodily harm and total of six months for the remaining three charges.

LOAD-DATE: February 23, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2009 NewsQuest Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              356 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                                  M2 PressWIRE

                            February 23, 2009 Monday

NATO: Statement by the NATO Secretary General, Jaap de Hoop Scheffer, on the
terrorist attack in Cairo

LENGTH: 140 words


General, Jaap de Hoop Scheffer, on the terrorist attack in Cairo

On behalf of NATO, I condemn in the strongest possible terms the
terrorist attack in Cairoyesterday. I express NATO's solidarity to
President Mubarak and to the Egyptian people for this heinous act. I
extend NATO's condolences to President Sarkozy for the death of the
French citizen and I hope for a speedy recovery of the Egyptian, Saudi,
French and German citizens injured. There can be no justification for
this cowardly and pointless attack. NATO will continue to work with
Egyptand with the other members of our Mediterranean Dialogue to
cooperate in the fight against the scourge of terrorism.

((M2 Communications Ltd disclaims all liability for information
provided within
Further information on
http://www.presswire.net on the world wide web. Inquiries to
info@m2.com)).

LOAD-DATE: February 23, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newswire

JOURNAL-CODE: M2P


                      Copyright 2009 Normans Media Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              357 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                          Press Association Mediapoint

                      February 23, 2009 Monday 4:46 PM BST

SEABORNE TERROR ATTACKS DEFENCE BOOST URGED

BYLINE: Ben Padley, Press Association Political Staff

SECTION: PARLIAMENTARY NEWS

LENGTH: 257 words


Ministers were today pressed for assurances that more is being done to protect
Britain's coastline from a seaborne terrorist attack.

Tory Patrick Mercer said the attacks in Mumbai showed that the defence of
coastal areas could ``never have been more important''.

More than 170 people died when 10 men launched attacks in several parts of
India's financial capital in November. The attackers entered the city on
speedboats transported across the sea on trawlers.

Mr Mercer, a former Army officer and homeland security spokesman for his party,
pointed to recent comments by counter-terrorism minister Admiral Lord West of
Spithead.

At question time the Newark MP said: ``The defence of our coastline,
particularly in the light of the attacks in Mumbai can never have been more
important.

``Yet in recent evidence he gave to the Defence Select Committee, Lord West,
referring to these arrangements said 'It's not what I would call ultimately
satisfactory' - that defence.

``Can the minister reassure me that Lord West's comments are ill-founded and
much more is being done to protect our coastline?''

Armed Forces Minister Bob Ainsworth said he didn't know in what context the
phrase had been used.

But he said: ``There are plans in place to provide the necessary capability to
be able to counteract a terrorist attack in our country.

``We believe that those are perfectly adequate although obviously they have to
be kept under review and in light of such circumstances as Mumbai that is of
vital importance as every Member of the House will be able to see.''

LOAD-DATE: February 24, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newswire


                  Copyright 2009 The Press Association Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              358 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring Middle East - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                           February 24, 2009 Tuesday

Algerian terror expert says expects "random" attacks before elections

LENGTH: 303 words


Text of interview by Qatari government-funded, pan-Arab news channel Al-Jazeera
satellite TV on 23 February with an Algerian terror expert, Hecene Boulihia, to
comment on the killing of security guards in a natural gas firm in the Algerian
province of Jijel.

[Presenter] How do you explain the fact that this time a gas installation was
targeted by armed men?

[Boulihia] Such acts are expected with the countdown to the presidential
election. Normally, armed groups in Algeria seek to prove their presence through
operations against security or government targets. These attacks are designed to
send a certain political message showing that those groups are still active.
However, the targeting of a gas company and its guards in Jijel lacks precision
and planning. In many cases, civilian targets are attacked and in some cases
those attacks are launched in isolated areas.

[Presenter] You have linked those attacks with the presidential election. Is
there a real fear of a rise in terror acts?

[Boulihia] Certainly, the Algerian armed group or Al-Qa'idah in the Lands of the
Islamic Maghreb may carry out operations against government's targets or
retaliatory attacks. But recent acts seem to be random and show that members of
those groups are increasingly isolated.

[Presenter] There have been recent calls for fighters to surrender. Is there a
link between these calls and the attack today [23 February]?

[Boulihia] Of course, armed groups have been targeted [sentence not clear] and
many of their fighters have been surrendering. This is a cause for concern for
these groups, which try to prove their presence through attacks, normally on
military targets in isolated areas. But these operations will not have any
significant impact on political events in Algeria.

Source: Al-Jazeera TV, Doha, in Arabic 2130 gmt 23 Feb 09

LOAD-DATE: February 25, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2009 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              359 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                                Birmingham Post

                           February 24, 2009 Tuesday
                                  1ST Edition

French student was victim of terrorist bomb attack on Cairotourism spot  ;
INTERNATIONAL tourism spot

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 327 words


The victim of a terrorist bombing in a crowded Cairo tourist spot was a French
teenage girl on a school trip.

The 17-year-old was killed and 19 of her classmates injured in the explosion at
the sprawling Khan el-Khalili market on Sunday night.

The explosion hit the busy main square when it was packed with tourists.

The girl, whose name has not been released, was with 41 other teenage students,
said PatrickBalkany, mayor of her hometown, Levallois-Perret, a Paris suburb.

The students were nearing the end of their trip when the attack occurred, Mr
Balkany said.

Some of the surviving students have serious wounds and others suffered
psychological shock from the "horror" of the experience.

"We are faced with a dreadful drama," Mr Balkany said.

France's prime minister, Francois Fillon, denounced what he called an "odious
attack".

"There are people who want to destabilise Egypt, which is one of the moderate
countries in the region," he said.

"It is an illustration of the violence that we must eradicate."

There was no immediate claim of responsibility for the bombing. Islamic
extremists have in the past attacked tourists in an attempt to hurt Egypt's
biggest source of income.

Yesterday's attack - the first on tourists in three years - came as the tourist
industry suffers under the global financial crisis, which has meant fewer
visitors to the country.

The Khan el-Khalili, a 650-year-old bazaar of narrow, winding alleys dotted with
old Islamic mosques and monuments and shops, is one of the top tourist spots in
Cairo, often crowded with foreigners.

In April 2005 a suicide bomber in the market killed himself, two French people
and an American.

Yesterday's bomb was packed with TNT and explosive black powder and placed under
a bench in a busy square in front of one of Cairo's most revered shrines, the
Husseinmosque.

Security officials said three people were in custody. Authorities safely
detonated a second bomb that was found.

LOAD-DATE: February 24, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


               Copyright 2009 Midland Independent Newspapers plc
                              All Rights Reserved

                              360 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring Middle East - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                          February 25, 2009 Wednesday

Algerian editorial views timing, significance of latest terrorist attack

LENGTH: 423 words


Text of editorial by Salim Tamani entitled "Gaps", published by privately-owned
Algerian newspaper Liberte website on 25 February

The Jijel attack has revealed this double message and the Salafi Group for Call
and Combat [GSPC; the group now known as Al-Qa'idah in the Land of the Islamic
Maghreb, or AQLIM], which has lost several of its leaders these past two years,
is trying to show that it still has the ability to cause harm, all the more so
since the Iraqi networks have provided the organization with new techniques in
explosives attacks.

The GSPC wants to weigh in on the electoral climate. By perpetrating the latest
attack in Jijel, which mowed down the lives of nine people, Droudkel's
organization has invited itself into the campaign for the presidential election
in its macabre way, of course. The timing and the choice of place were not
accidental. First it must be noted that the terrorist attack occurred on the eve
of the submission of candidacy files to the Constitutional Council of contenders
for the top job. Which indicates the GSPC's determination to interfere with the
start of the electoral pre-campaign. Worse yet, to try to create an atmosphere
of fear in order to disrupt the candidates' trips across the country.

Next, the choice of Jijel is indicative of many things in Algerians' collective
memory. The nightmare of the Islamist violence that has claimed thousands of
victims since 1992 was symbolized by the maquis of the ex-Islamic Salvation Army
[AIS] in that region. And the civil concord which, through this amnesty-giving
pardon, allowed hundreds of terrorists to lay down their arms and return to the
right path. Thus the Jijel attack has revealed this double message and the GSPC,
which has lost several of its leaders these past two years, is trying to show
that it still has the ability to cause harm, all the more so since the Iraqi
networks have provided the organization with new techniques in explosives
attacks.

But it is to be feared that the GSPC could still perpetrate other attacks in
order to announce its "presence," all the more so since a known Islamist leader,
from abroad, has just appealed to Algerians to boycott the presidential
election. The security agencies, which have experienced similar situations, know
what they are up against with each election. Beyond beefing up security
presences, vigilance by all is recommended to cope with the macabre designs of
the terrorists who exploit the slightest gap to commit the irreparable.

Source: Liberte website, Algiers, in French 25 Feb 09

LOAD-DATE: February 25, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2009 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              361 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                             Cambridge Evening News

                          February 25, 2009 Wednesday

Terror for terrier as dogs attack

BYLINE: jordan.day@cambridge-news.co.uk

LENGTH: 419 words


Cheryl with Clyde, who needed a four-hour operation to treat his terrible
wounds.    POLICE have apologised to a dog owner for their response to an
incident in which her pet was savaged.Cheryl Ives, 25, was walking her border
terrier Clyde near her home in Sutton when two out-of-control labradors
struck.The attack happened on a farm track near the village community centre
when the labradors charged over to the seven-year-old terrier.One of them
started biting Clyde around his neck while the other savaged his rear end and
legs.Miss Ives said she screamed for help and the owner of the labradors finally
arrived.But because neither labrador had collars on, the owner was unable to
pull them back and they kept lunging at and biting Clyde.Miss Ives, a veterinary
nurse lecturer at the College of Animal Welfare, based at Wood Green Animal
Shelter in Godmanchester, spoke of the "petrifying" ordeal.She said: "These two
golden labradors charged their way through the hedge and started attacking Clyde
at both ends."They were out of control - they had no leads or collars on, they
were biting him all over and their owner was nowhere to be seen."I was
hysterical and screaming for help. Then I heard their owner shouting for them,
but all they were interested in was harming Clyde."The owner came over and tried
to pull them off but there was no way of controlling them.

Clyde then ran away but they chased him down the track and attacked him again -
it was petrifying."Eventually, the owner grabbed hold of his dogs and left Miss
Ives with Clyde, who was bleeding heavily.Vets spent four hours operating on him
- he had suffered two major bite wounds, puncture marks to his entire body and a
serious eye injury.Miss Ives, who faces a bill of 800 for his treatment, said
police were indifferent when she reported the attack.She said: "I called the
police and they have acknowledged my call but have been far too laid back about
dealing with it."They should have been out to see me in order to see the
damage."Action needs to be taken on these dogs before something even more
serious occurs. What frightens me is that my dog could have quite easily been a
child."A police spokeswoman said: "The service that Ms Ives has received is
completely unacceptable."We have been in touch with her to apologise and have
made an appointment to see her tomorrow."We have also invited Ms Ives into the
force control room to speak to staff about her experience so that we can learn
from this incident, which she has accepted."

LOAD-DATE: July 10, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: CambridgeNews


                    Copyright 2009 Iliffe News and Media Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                              362 of 500 DOCUMENTS



              PA Regional Newswire of English Regions: SOUTH WEST

                    February 25, 2009 Wednesday 6:41 PM BST

SHOPS TRAINED TO COUNTER TERROR ATTACKS

SECTION: PA Regional Newswire for English Regions

LENGTH: 166 words


Shop owners are being trained by police in Gloucestershire on how to deal with a
terrorist attack.

Gloucestershire Constabulary and the Gloucester Crime and Disorder Reduction
Partnership are hosting the Project Argus event on March 5 at Gloucester
Guildhall.

Retailers can learn what to do if they are caught in a terrorist attack or other
catastrophe such as flooding, fire or an explosion.

As part of the training they will participate in a simulated terrorist incident.

Chief Inspector Emma Ackland said: ``Operation Argus is a national scheme that
has been developed to raise awareness within businesses to ensure that they are
prepared for and are able to respond to threats posed by terrorism.

``The learning from the exercise will also prove valuable in the event of any
major incident .

``Although a terror attack is unlikely it is something we all need to be
increasingly aware of. It is prudent for businesses to be alert at all times and
have plans in place that manage risk and threat.'' end

LOAD-DATE: February 25, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newswire


                  Copyright 2009 The Press Association Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              363 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                  Guardian.com

                               February 26, 2009

India names Pakistani colonel in connection with Mumbai terror attacks

LENGTH: 515 words



HIGHLIGHT: The officer is the highest-ranked Pakistani to be implicated in the
three-day siege


Indian police have named a Pakistani colonel who they say was connected to
November's Mumbai attacks which left 164 people dead.

A 11,509-page charge sheet filed by the Mumbai police yesterday named the
officer as Colonel Sadatullah, the highest-ranked Pakistani to be implicated in
the three-day siege of two luxury hotels and other sites that strained tensions
between the two neighbours.

Sadatullah is a colonel in the special communications organisation, a
telecommunications agency of the Pakistani government run by officers from the
army's signal corps. The SCO operates only in the Pakistani side of Kashmir and
Pakistan's restive northern region.

According to the Times of India, a total of 284 calls running into 995 minutes
were made by the terrorists using mobile phones from the Taj Mahal hotel,
Oberoi-Trident and Nariman House, a Jewish centre, to their handlers in
Pakistan.

Indian investigators say the calls made using voice over internet protocol or
VoIP, a cheap way of making international calls, were traced back to an IP
address created with CallPhonex, a VoIP service provider based in New Jersey.
Payments for the calls were made by opening an account in the name of Kharak
Singh from India.

However, payments to this account were made by wire transfer through MoneyGram
and Western Union Money Transfer by two Pakistani nationals, Javed Iqbal and
Mohammed Ishtiaq. The two used the email ID kharak_telco@yahoo.com while
communicating with CallPhonex. Indian investigators say there was contact
between this email address and Sadatullah's official email, pmit@sco.gov.pk,
which police say is the email service for all SCO officers.

Indian officials have charged a Pakistani national, Mohammed Ajmal Kasab, 21,
who was captured in the early hours of the attacks. The sole surviving attacker
was charged with 12 criminal counts, including murder and waging war against
India. He could face the death penalty if convicted.

The other nine other attackers were killed. India's special public prosecutor,
Ujjwal Nikam, said he expected the trial to begin in coming weeks and conclude
within six months, where the legal process can drag on for decades. The trial in
the county's deadliest terror attack, the 1993 Mumbai bombings which killed 257
people, lasted 14 years.

The Kasab trial could further inflame tensions with Pakistan as it sets out the
role of Pakistani groups in the assault.

India blames the attack on Lashkar-e-Taiba - an Islamist militant group widely
believed created by Pakistani intelligence agencies in the 1980s to fight Indian
rule in Kashmir - But the charges do not mention Pakistan's powerful
intelligence agency.

India says all 10 attackers were from Pakistan. Pakistani officials have
acknowledged that the attacks were partly plotted on Pakistani soil and
announced criminal proceedings against eight suspects. The filing against Kasab
included his confession, accounts from more than 2,000 witnesses and closed
circuit television footage that shows him and an accomplice walking into
Mumbai's crowded Chhatrapati Shivaji train station and opening fire.

LOAD-DATE: February 26, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


      Copyright  2009  Guardian Unlimited (© Guardian Newspapers Limited)
                              All rights reserved

                              364 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                               The Times (London)

                           February 26, 2009 Thursday
                                   Edition 1

Mumbai gunman names his price for terror attack;
'Baby-faced killer' says he was promised £1,300 for murders, writes Rhys Blakely

BYLINE: Rhys Blakely

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 41

LENGTH: 837 words


The only Mumbai gunman to be captured alive told interrogators that he was
promised 150,000 Pakistani rupees - about £1,300 - for carrying out the
terrorist attacks in November that claimed more than 170 lives.

Details of the payment emerged yesterday as police formally charged Azam Amir
Kasab, accused of helping to murder more than 50 people at the city's main
railway station, for the first time. Kasab, 21, who was described as "the
baby-faced killer" after being caught grinning on CCTV while brandishing an AK47
gun and carrying a haversack full of ammunition, was charged with several crimes
including waging war on India and murder. He faces the death sentence if
convicted.

The Pakistani was part of a cadre of ten Islamist militants who attacked India's
financial capital after being trained in Pakistan by the Lashkar-e- Taiba (LeT)
terrorist faction, police claim.

A criminal investigation has identified a further 37 suspects wanted for their
alleged involvement in a plot that struck ten targets across Mumbai, including
two luxury hotels and an ultra-Orthodox Jewish centre, terrorising the city for
60 hours. All but two of the suspects are Pakistani. "We are very confident of
our case. The boys have worked very hard, there's a lot of evidence," Rakesh
Maria, Mumbai's joint police commissioner, said.

In comments that will place a further strain on India's fraught relationship
with Pakistan, Mr Maria, who is regarded as one of India's finest detectives,
also indicated the possible involvement of the Pakistani Army.

He said that those named in the charge sheet included "two supposedly army names
with designations.

Whether they are serving or in the Lashkar hierarchy, it is not known".

Kasab was captured on November 26 after he and an accomplice opened fire on
commuters at Chhatrapati Shivaji Terminus, one of India's busiest stations. In a
reversal of previous denials, the Pakistan Government admitted last month that
he was a Pakistani citizen and said that the attacks were planned at least
partly in its territory. Relations between the two nuclear-armed neighbours
deteriorated sharply after the Mumbai atrocities and remain tense.

Kasab, described by the Indian police as the highest-value witness that they
have dealt with, did not appear in court yesterday amid concerns for his safety.
It is feared that the criminal network run by Dawood Ibrahim, South Asia's most
notorious underworld leader, might try to silence him before he can testify.

Ibrahim, one of the world's five most wanted men, is regarded widely as a prime
suspect for organising the "Mumbai connection" - local logistics, daily
reconnaissance of the targets and possibly financing - for the attacks in
November. The charges against Kasab come after an investigation that India's
security forces are at pains to present as thorough, drawing heavily on material
supplied by the FBI. The document listing the evidence against Kasab runs to
more than 11,000 pages. It is based on interviews with 2,202 witnesses and
includes intercepted telephone conversations between the gunmen and their
Pakistan-based handlers.

The huge charge sheet was filed before a metropolitan magistrate in Mumbai. It
is expected that the case will be transferred to a special court inside the
city's high-security Arthur Road jail, where Kasab is being held.

The document details the alleged roles played by two Indian nationals - Faheem
Ansari and Sabahuddin Ahmed - in supplying reconnaissance before the attacks. It
also names Yosuf Muzzamil and Zaki-ur-Rehman, two members of the LeT, which
India alleges has close links with Pakistan's powerful spy agency, the
Directorate of Inter-Services Intelligence (ISI).

The Mumbai police have not named the ISI in the charges against Kasab.

No date has been set for Kasab's trial but Indian prosecutors have said that
they hope it might be completed in six months.

That appears optimistic - previous terrorist trials in India have crawled along
for years. Moreover, with the filing of formal charges, the judicial system must
grapple with the question of Kasab's defence after a refusal by lawyers to
represent him. The constitution provides for the right to legal aid and
representation, as well as a "fair, just and equitable procedure" in court for
any defendant.

M. P. Rao, the secretary of the Bombay Bar Association, said recently that the
unprecedented nature of the attacks meant that normal rules should not apply.
"He has waged war on the country. If he's waged war, the basic requirement of
giving him a fair trial doesn't really become justified," he said.

The next hearing is to be held on March 9. None of the accused has entered
pleas.

City under siege

170 killed in terror attacks in Mumbai

370 injured

60 hours length of siege of city

18 months training undertaken by Kasab in Pakistan, according to police

10 co-ordinated attacks across Mumbai

10 number of gunmen

9 gunmen shot dead

8 hand grenades for each terrorist

Source: Times archives

'He waged war on us. The requirement of a fair trial is not justified'

LOAD-DATE: February 26, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Kasab at Chhatrapati Shivaji Terminus before the attacks. The evidence
against him runs to more than 11,000 pages
SEBASTIAN D'SOUZA / AP

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: TIM


                    Copyright 2009 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              365 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                       BBC Monitoring Europe - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                            February 27, 2009 Friday

Bosnian daily says Islamists planning terror attacks on Serb entity towns

LENGTH: 168 words


Text of report by Bosnian Serb state RT RS Radio, on 27 February

[Presenter] The EL-RA-DU Islamist Organization assessed that the conditions were
ready for terrorist attacks on the Serb Republic, pointing out Banja Luka,
Bijeljina, Prnjavor, and [Bosanska] Gradiska as possible targets, Glas Srpske
has reported today the excerpts from the secret document of this organization;
this documentation was seized during the arrest of the Wahhabis in Sandzak [area
straddling the Serbia-Montenegro border with a large Muslim population].

The conditions are there for the terrorist attacks on the Serb Republic and the
bordering towns in Serbia, with the aim to cause anxiety among the local
population, particularly of the Orthodox religion, because the level of
awareness and the security situation are low; this is written in the minutes
from the founding assembly of the EL-RA-DU organization, held in Zenica on 12
November 2007.

Source: Bosnian Serb radio, Banja Luka, in Bosnian/Croatian/Serbian 1500 gmt 27
Feb 09

LOAD-DATE: February 27, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2009 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              366 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                          Press Association Mediapoint

                      February 27, 2009 Friday 3:24 PM BST

SMITH ATTACKS BAIL FOR FOUR TERROR SUSPECTS

BYLINE: Chris Greenwood, Press Association Crime Correspondent

SECTION: HOME NEWS

LENGTH: 413 words


Home Secretary Jacqui Smith attacked a decision by a senior immigration judge
today after four terror suspects were freed on bail.

Officials fear the men could abscond because they face deportation to their home
countries of Jordan and Algeria.

Sitting at the Special Immigration Appeals Tribunal (Siac) today, Mr Justice
Mitting agreed to remand one man in custody.

But he freed the remaining four after the Government failed to prove they were
at risk of disappearing.

Ms Smith said the Government acted as a result of the recent decision by the
House of Lords to deport radical cleric Abu Qatada.

She said: ``I am pleased that the courts have agreed with me that one individual
should be detained but I am extremely disappointed that the courts have allowed
four others to be released.

``My top priority is to protect the public and I have argued that, given a
recent ruling by the House of Lords which was favourable to the Government's
efforts to deport people from the UK, there is a risk that these individuals
will abscond if they are not detained.

``We are bound by the court's decision. Those released today already face
restrictions under their bail but, naturally, we will take any other steps
necessary to maintain national security now that they are being released.''

Campaigners complained angrily after the five men were arrested by police and UK
Border Agency officials yesterday evening.

The arrests took place hours after a first hearing in which the judge declined
to revoke their bail.

The four released men are three Algerians, known only as Y, BB and Z, and a
Jordanian known as VV. An Algerian known only as U will remain in custody.

The men are accused of links to overseas terrorist organisations including, in
some cases, al Qaida and Osama bin Laden.

Despite hostility towards Britain, each of the suspects has argued in court that
they face torture if returned to their home nations.

The Government has struck a ``memorandum of understanding'' with Jordan and
other countries in which the governments pledged to protect the men's human
rights.

Solicitors for the five men claimed these assurances could not be relied upon,
but the Law Lords' decision on Abu Qatada paves the way for their deportation.

Qatada, once described as bin Laden's right-hand man in Europe, and several
others have made a last-ditch appeal to the European Court of Human Rights.

A Siac spokesman said a hearing will take place next Friday to review U's case
with further hearings on March 9.

LOAD-DATE: February 28, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newswire


                  Copyright 2009 The Press Association Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              367 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring South Asia - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                           February 28, 2009 Saturday

Pakistan clerics protest against recent terror attacks

LENGTH: 251 words


Text of report by official news agency Associated Press of Pakistan (APP)

Muzaffargarh, 27 February: On the call of Millat-e-Jafariya Pakistan Allama
Sajid Naqvi, Ulema [clerics] and people observed protest day in Muzaffargarh
district to condemn the terrorist attacks occurred in DI Khan, DG Khan, Quetta,
Hangu, Tank, Karachi and other parts of the country.

Religious leaders, Imams and Ulema spoke strongly against the terrorists in
their Friday [27 February] khutba throughout the district and urged the
government to break the network of terrorists and arrest those involved in
terrorist activities.

Millat-e-Jafariya and Jafariya Students Organization took out a rally from Jamia
Masjid Jafariya that ended at Qinwan Chowk after a public meeting. MNA [Member
of National Assembly] Jamshed Dasti, Malik Mazhar Pahore besides Sardar Kazim
Ali Haidari, Maulana Naseer Hamdani, Aftab Naqvi and others addressed the rally
participants. Speakers condemned the target killings and suicide bombings. They
pointed out that some elements from a banned organization have started provoking
people in Jatoi and other parts of the district and urged the administration to
check this activity to avoid any harm in future.

They said that some elements want to create divide among Muslims and harm the
sectarian harmony and demanded immediate steps by the government and Ulema from
all schools of thought to counter this conspiracy.

Source: Associated Press of Pakistan news agency, Islamabad, in English 1719gmt
28 Feb 09

LOAD-DATE: February 28, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2009 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              368 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                          The Guardian - Final Edition

                           February 28, 2009 Saturday

National: Civil servants attacked for using anti-terror laws to spy on public:
Watchdog threatened to tell PM about abuses: Officers posed as anglers to
investigate fish plot

BYLINE: Rob Evans and Paul Lewis

SECTION: GUARDIAN HOME PAGES; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 914 words


Controversial surveillance powers employed to fight terrorism and combat crime
have been misused by civil servants in undercover "spying" operations that
breach official guidelines, the Guardian has learned.

Documents obtained under Freedom of Information show some government departments
and agencies have used these powers incorrectly or without proper controls. They
also show the official government watchdog set up to monitor the use of such
clandestine techniques criticised the departments for their behaviour.

The watchdog twice threatened to inform Gordon Brown about the serious abuses of
powers under the Regulation of Investigatory Powers Act (RIPA).

The watchdog highlighted how:

* Officials at the Department for Environment, Food and Rural Affairs (Defra)
did not have proper authorisation when they went undercover posing as anglers to
glean information about imported fish;

* A manager responsible for authorising surveillance at the NHS anti-fraud
agency routinely gave officials "carte blanche" in surveillance operations;

* Tracking devices were attached to vehicles in a bid to monitor the disposal of
waste, after the Environment Agency received apparently incorrect advice from
the Home Office

* Potential prosecutions were jeopardised because those conducting the
surveillance operations were not properly trained and had not followed
procedures

* A large array of public bodies are also using surveillance powers, including
the Charity Commission, Royal Pharmaceutical Society and the BBC.

The disclosures come amid mounting criticism of the expansion of state powers to
spy on citizens.

The RIPA was introduced in 2000 to regulate surveillance carried out by public
bodies to prevent crime, terrorism and protect public safety. Local councils
have been accused of going too far by "snooping" on people suspected of dog
fouling, fly-tipping or fraudulently applying for a school place.

The Home Office minister Vernon Coaker has said some surveillance has been
"inappropriate", while Sir Simon Milton, chairman of the Local Government
Association, wrote to every council in England last year urging them to cease
using the powers for "trivial" matters.

Reports of inspections by the watchdog, the Chief Surveillance Commissioner,
stretching back to 2003 shed new light on how government departments have been
using surveillance powers.

The documents obtained highlight how the powers are "widely used" by Royal Mail,
which uses hidden "viewing galleries" in sorting officers and local authority
CCTV to secretly monitor its staff.

Ofcom, the media regulator, conducted covert surveillance or obtained
communications data 177 times in 2007. In the same year the Charity Commission
did so three times. Other organisations which have used surveillance powers
include Ofsted, the Civil Nuclear Constabulary, the Driving Standards Agency and
Food Standards Agency, the Financial Services Authority, the BBC (for TV
licensing detection) and the Royal Pharmaceutical Society.

Many of these bodies were found to be abiding by RIPA rules, with only minor
infringements.

Sir Christopher Rose, the Chief Surveillance Commissioner, was particularly
critical of Defra. In a letter to Helen Ghosh, the department's most senior
official, he said that his findings from one inspection made "lamentable
reading".

He found it impossible to discover which officials were in charge of making sure
the surveillance powers were used lawfully and found the department had not
properly authorised the use of undercover officials who were seeking to prevent
the illegal importation of live fish.

He said: "The officers concerned were posing as anglers who were engaging other
anglers and staff at the fish pond in conversation to elicit information."

A Defra spokeswoman said that since the 2006, the department had "made
considerable progress in dealing with the concerns raised and has now
implemented the recommendations in full."

Rose had threatened the unusual step of reporting Defra to Brown if the
department did not put its house in order.

His predecessor, Sir Andrew Leggatt, issued the same threat to the Department of
Health agency which investigates NHS fraud - the NHS Counter Fraud Service. The
watchdog was concerned about the "authorising officer", then deputy director of
operations Allan Carter. It found his written authorisations effectively gave
"carte blanche" for any activity "which might be deemed (covert) surveillance".

The watchdog said Carter, who has since been promoted, also made authorisations
over the phone. Carter said the watchdog's inspector had "misconstrued the issue
of verbal authorisations" and that "no purely verbal authorisations were given".

Carter, who had many other responsibilities, told the watchdog he was "keen to
address his lack of knowledge as a matter of urgency". Yesterday, the NHSCFS
said its investigations meet "the highest professional standards" and it has now
addressed issues raised in inspections.

The Environment Agency were found to be trespassing on private land to install
spy cameras. The agency was also chided in 2007 for attaching tracking devices
to a vehicle to monitor the suspected dumping of illegal waste, which
constitutes undue interference in private property. This was done after
apparently erroneous advice from the Home Office.

David Jordan, of the Environment Agency, said: "The Environment Agency uses
covert surveillance to tackle serious environmental crime. We have a very good
track record of compliance with RIPA."

LOAD-DATE: February 28, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2009 Guardian Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              369 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                            The Independent (London)

                           February 28, 2009 Saturday
                                 First Edition

Home Secretary attacks bail for terror suspects;
Britain in brief

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 28

LENGTH: 208 words


COURTS Jacqui Smith said that four terror suspects who were freed on bail
yesterday by a senior immigration judge could abscond because they face
deportation to their home countries of Jordan and Algeria. While Mr Justice
Mitting, sitting at the Special Immigration Appeals Tribunal (Siac), agreed to
remand one man in custody, he freed the remaining four after the Government
failed to prove they were at risk of disappearing. Ms Smith said the Government
acted as a result of the recent decision by the House of Lords to deport the
radical cleric Abu Qatada. She said: "I am pleased that the courts have agreed
with me that one individual should be detained but I am extremely disappointed
that the courts have allowed four others to be released." She added: "We are
bound by the court's decision." The men are accused of links to overseas
terrorist organisations. Despite hostility towards Britain, the three Algerians
and a Jordanian have argued in court that they face torture if returned to their
home nations. The Government has struck a "memorandum of understanding" with
Jordan and other countries in which the governments pledged to protect the men's
human rights. Solicitors for the five men claimed these assurances could not be
relied upon.

LOAD-DATE: February 27, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: IA


                      Copyright 2009 Independent Print Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                              370 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring South Asia - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                              March 1, 2009 Sunday

(CORR) India: Police to probe Saudi link to Mumbai terror attack funding

LENGTH: 395 words


Text of report by independent Indian daily The Asian Age website

(Correcting bulletin code)

Text of report by Dippy Vankani headlined Police will follow 26/11 money trail
to a Saudi" published by Indian newspaper The Asian Age website on 1 March

February 28: The Mumbai police has launched a probe to find out whether the
funds used to sponsor the November 26 terror attacks were channelled from a West
Asian country because its investigation of the Lashkar-e-Tayyaba (LeT)
[Lashkar-e-Taiyiba] has thrown up the name of [name omitted], a Saudi national
and financier who served as the leader of the LeT in Saudi Arabia.

While the chargesheet filed on Wednesday [25 February] by the crime branch does
not extensively detail the sources of the finances used in carrying out the
attacks, it does elaborate on the LeT operatives who handled the finances of the
terror outfit. Senior officers said on condition of anonymity that work is being
done to track some of these transactions with banks based in West Asia.

Regarding the most dangerous operatives of the LeT, the chargesheet states that
Haji Mohammed Ashraf is the outfit's chief of finance whereas [name omitted], a
Saudi national who served as the leader of the LeT in Saudi Arabia, is a senior
financier. The Indian-born Saudi national has been a key element in LeT
activities and was a popular visitor to the Jamaat-ud-Dawah [Jamaat-ud Dawa ]
(the parent body of the LeT) centre in Muridke, Pakistan.

According to a senior officer, the crime branch is yet to ascertain the source
of the money used to pay for the weaponry, boats and training. "[name omitted]
had always been involved in anti-India operations and is also believed to be
close to Students' Islamic Movement of India (Simi) operatives," said an
officer.

"So far we have been able to establish the sources of money that were sent to
the [name omitted] Telephone Company in New Jersey for VOIP services used for
making calls by the handlers to the terrorists. On October 27, 2008, an initial
payment of 250 dollars was wired to [name omitted] by Mohammed Ishfaque from
Lahore. On November 25, 2008, a second payment of 229 dollars was wired to [name
omitted] via [name omitted] from Brescia, Italy, by Javed Iqbal, who gave his
Pakistani passport to the company for identification," added the officer.

Source: The Asian Age website, Delhi, in English 01 Mar 09

LOAD-DATE: March 1, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2009 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              371 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                       BBC Monitoring Europe - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                              March 2, 2009 Monday

Greek police fear next terrorist attack on US target

LENGTH: 713 words


Text of report by Greek newspaper To Vima on 21 February

[Report by V. Y. Lambropoulos: "The Explosives Used in the Attack Against
Citibank Were 'Homemade'"]

EL.AS. [Greek Police] is concerned about the next attack of the Revolutionary
Struggle terrorist organization.

There is concern in the leadership of the Greek Public Order Ministry and the
Greek Police about the next hit of the Revolutionary Struggle organization,
following the attempt to blow up the offices of Citibank in the area of Kifisia
[Athens suburb], on Wednesday [ 18 Feb] morning.

The officers of the Greek Counterterrorism Squad fear that the organization may
have already started preparations to carry out a similar attack with a car
trapped with explosives against, possibly, a target of US interests or against
the Police. Already, successive meetings are taking place in the Public Order
Ministry and extraordinary measures are taken to avoid a bloody bomb attack.

The main conclusion of the officers of the Greek Police is that the ANFO
[Ammonium Nitrate -Fuel Oil] type explosives that were used in the attack
against Citibank were an improvised explosive device created by mixing ammonium
nitrate  - possibly from fertilizers -  with oil and certain other additional
materials that are freely traded in the market. In this way, the police officers
fear that the organization, with great ease, can produce unlimited quantities of
such type of explosive materials and carry out "Al-Qa'idah type" attacks against
various targets, without considering human losses . . . It is worth noting that
what was also examined is the possibility that the explosive material that was
found in Citibank in the area of Kifisia may come from an amount of about 300
kilos of ANFO, of industrial use. That was stolen in the spring of 2005 from a
worksite of Egnatia Odhos, in the prefecture of Grevena. Indeed, at the time, a
team of many officers of the Counterterrorism Squad had gone to Grevena to
investigate how and from whom the explosives were stolen. At the time, however,
the officers reached the conclusion that the theft was not the act of an "urban
guerrilla" group. On the contrary, it was concluded that the members of the
Revolutionary Struggle organization had stolen large quantities of dynamite in
gel form, liquid explosives, as well as detonators  - in July of 2003 -  from a
quarry in Prosilio, in the prefecture of Fokidha. There is speculation that the
detonators from the theft in question were used in the bomb that almost exploded
in the offices of Citibank.

The officers of the Counterterrorism Squad as well as the Bomb Disposal Squad
believe that the bomb did not explode because the culprits did not consider the
fact that the almost 80 kilos of ANFO required a more powerful detonator than
the one that was used in the attempt to blow up the offices of Citibank.
Nevertheless, according to Greek Police officers, "it is certain that the
members of the Revolutionary Struggle organization will not make the same
mistake again . . .".

The interest of the police officers is concentrated on something the owner of
the car said, that "a week before the car was stolen by the culprits of the
attack on Citibank there was yet another attempt to steal the car".

The officers of Greek Police fear also the reappearance of the Sect of
Revolutionaries organization because it has not sent any proclamation so far.

The United States expresses concern

The concern of the United States about the reappearance of terrorism in Greece,
as well as the willingness of Washington to cooperate with Athens in confronting
terrorism was expressed yesterday [ 20 Feb] by US Ambassador in Athens Daniel V.
Speckhard. In a statement after the meeting the US Ambassador in Athens had with
Greek Development Minister K. Khatzidhakis, he stressed, while referring to the
recent terrorist attacks, the following: "Of course, we are concerned with
terrorism, in the same way as, I am sure, all Greeks are concerned. This does
not only concern Greece, but all countries must be on constant alert and ready
to cooperate as partners and allies. I hope that by cooperating, exchanging
information and experiences, and by learning from each other, we are in a
position to protect our citizens".

Source: To Vima, Athens, in Greek 21 Feb 09

LOAD-DATE: March 2, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2009 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              372 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring South Asia - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                             March 3, 2009 Tuesday

Pakistan police official says "well-trained terrorists" likely behind attack

LENGTH: 142 words


Text of unattributed report headlined "'Terrorists' behind attack on Sri Lanka
cricket team: police" published by Pakistan newspaper The Nation website on 3
March

A deadly attack on the Sri Lankan cricket team in the Pakistani city of Lahore
on Tuesday [3 March] was likely the work of "well-trained terrorists," its
police chief said.

"There were 12 masked gunmen," Habib-ur Rehman told reporters, adding that
police battled against the assailants for about 25 minutes.

"They appeared to be well-trained terrorists. They came on rickshaws. They were
armed with rockets, hand grenades, kalashnikovs." He said five policemen were
killed in the gun attack which also wounded at least three Sri Lankan players.
"Five policemen who were providing protection to the team sacrificed their
lives," he added.

Source: The Nation website, Islamabad, in English 03 Mar 09

LOAD-DATE: March 3, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2009 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              373 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring South Asia - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                             March 3, 2009 Tuesday

Sri Lanka cricketer recounts terror attack in Pakistan's Lahore

LENGTH: 216 words


Text of unattributed report headlined "We all dived to the floor to take cover:
Jayawardene" published by Pakistan newspaper The News website on 3 March

Lahore: Sri Lanka cricket captain Mahela Jayawardene said that the players dived
to the floor of the bus to take cover when the team bus came under heavy fire
from terrorists, on the way to Gaddafi Stadium for the Test match here Tuesday
[3 March].

"The bus came under attack as we were driving to the stadium, the gunmen
targeted the wheels of the bus first and then the bus," Jayawardene was quoted
as saying by the media.

"We all dived to the floor to take cover. About five players have been injured
and also Paul Farbrace, a member of the support staff, but most of the injuries
appear to be minor at this stage and caused by debris," he said.

At least six Sri Lankan cricketers including Jayawaredene, his deputy Kumar
Sangakkara, Ajantha Mendis, Thilan Samaraweera and Tharanga Paranavitana
received injuries in the attack.

The team bus was shot and grenades were also lobbed towards it by armed
terrorists on its way to the Gaddafi Stadium for the third day of the second and
the final Test match here. Five escorting policemen were killed in the attack
that took place near the Liberty.

Source: The News website, Islamabad, in English 03 Mar 09

LOAD-DATE: March 3, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2009 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              374 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                            Birmingham Evening Mail

                             March 3, 2009 Tuesday
                                 First Edition

5 die in cricket terror attack;
Gunmen open fire on team coach

BYLINE: Edward Chadwick

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 405 words


MASKED gunmen armed with rifles and rocket launchers attacked Sri Lanka's
national cricket team in Pakistan today - wounding six players and killing five
police officers.

The officers were guarding the convoy of stars and officials as the team arrived
at Lahore's Gaddafi Stadium early this morning.

Witnesses said at least 12 men wearing body armour ambushed the coach carrying
the players and several cars containing officials, umpires and journalists.

TV pictures showed men carrying AK47 rifles opening fire from bushes in scenes
reminiscent of recent terror attacks on Mumbai, which claimed the lives of 173
people.

Officials could be seen examining dozens of spent shell casings lying on ground
nearby and a discarded rocket launcher tube.

It is not known who was behind the attacks at about 9am local time, but police
said they were still hunting the gunmen, who arrived on rickshaws and in cars
before carrying out the 'well-coordinated' assault.

Among those caught up in the chaos were former England cricketers Chris Broad
and Dominic Cork.

Broad, an umpire and the father of current England fast bowler Stuart, is said
to have been splattered with blood when the driver of a car he was travelling in
was shot.

Players and officials were later airlifted to safety and none are thought to
have life-threatening injuries.

Lahore police chief Haji Habibur Rehman said: "It was a terrorist attack and
they used rocket launchers, hand grenades and other weapons.

Our police sacrificed their lives to protect the Sri Lankan team."

Players Thilan Samaraweera, Tharanga Paranavitana, Kumar Sangakkara and Thilan
Thushara are among those thought to have been injured, along with head coach
Ajantha Mendis and assistant coach Paul Farbrace, an Englishman who played for
Kent and Middlesex.

Cork, who played 37 Tests for England and was working as a commentator in
Pakistan, said: "The Sri Lankan players are quite shocked.

They all fell to the floor of the team bus when the attack happened.

"Some of them have wounds, but I think most of them are superficial wounds.

"I have spoken to (Kumar) Sangakkarra, he has a shrapnel wound in his right
shoulder.

"I won't be coming back here while I'm still living, there is no chance.

"I don't think international cricket should return to this country."

The attack comes at a time of unrest in both Pakistan and Sri Lanka, both of
which are trying to defeat uprisings.

LOAD-DATE: March 3, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:  The windscreen of the Sri Lanka cricket team's coach is riddled with
bullet holes.
 Two of the gunmen are caught on camera opening fire on the coach.
 Pakistani police officers examine the shooting site. Below former England
cricketer Dominic Cork and firearm used in the attacks.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


               Copyright 2009 Midland Independent Newspapers plc
                              All Rights Reserved

                              375 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                BreakingNews.ie

                       March 3, 2009 Tuesday 07:13 AM GMT

Cricketers shot in 'terror attack' on Sri Lankan team

SECTION: WORLD NEWS

LENGTH: 766 words


Masked gunmen armed with rifles and rocket launchers attacked Sri Lanka's
national cricket team in Pakistan today, wounding at least two players and
killing five police officers.

It was unclear who was behind the assault, but it appeared to have been
carefully co-ordinated.

Lahore police chief Haji Habibur Rehman said five policemen died in the shooting
and two players were wounded. A Pakistan Cricket Board security official had
earlier said eight players were injured.

"It was a terrorist attack and the terrorists used rocket launchers, hand
grenades and other weapons," Mr Rehman said. He said police were hunting down
the attackers who managed to flee.

"Our police sacrificed their lives to protect the Sri Lankan team," he added.

He said one wounded player was hit in the leg while the other was shot in the
chest.

Sri Lankan team manager Brendon Kruppu said the team's batsman, Kumar
Sangakkara, was among those injured near Lahore's Gaddafi Stadium where the team
were to play.

Mr Rehman said 12 masked gunmen took part in the attack as the players were in a
white van. Footage from the scene showed the van with its front window shattered
as security officials tried to gain control of the scene at a junction.

The attack comes at a time of unrest in both Pakistan and Sri Lanka, both of
which are trying to defeat uprisings.

Security concerns have plagued Pakistan for years and some foreign sports teams
have refused to play there.

Most of the violence in Pakistan occurs in its north west regions bordering
Afghanistan, where Taliban and al Qaida militants have established strongholds.

Lahore has not been immune from militant violence however, and at least one
attack in recent months in the north west has occurred next to a sports stadium.

Sri Lanka appeared on the brink of crushing the Tamil Tiger rebels after more
than a quarter century of civil war.

In recent months, government forces have pushed the guerrillas out of much of
the de facto state they controlled in the north of the Indian Ocean island
nation and trapped them in a small patch of land along the coast.

The rebels, who are fighting for an independent state for Sri Lanka's Tamil
minority, are listed as a terror group by the US and EU and are routinely blamed
for suicide bombings and other attacks targeting civilians.

The rebels rarely launch attacks outside Sri Lanka, though their most prominent
attack - the assassination of former Indian prime minister Rajiv Gandhi by a
female suicide bomber - took place at an election rally in India in 1991.

A Sri Lankan foreign ministry official said two players - Thilan Samaraweera and
Tharanga Paranavitana - were taken to hospital. He said three more players were
slightly injured and the head coach, Australian Trevor Bayliss, also received
minor injuries.

A driver of one of the vehicles taking the Sri Lankan players to the stadium
told Pakistan's private Express news channel that he saw a man firing a rocket
towards their van, and then someone hurled a grenade, but the weapons missed the
vehicle.

The driver said later he heard gunshots and bullets started hitting their van.
He said he managed to take the van to the stadium and saw two of the Sri Lankan
players were bleeding.

Squad member Kumar Sangakkara told Sri Lankan radio station Yes-FM that ''all
the players are completely out of danger''.

"Luckily there's nothing serious and everyone is fine," he said.

Authorities cancelled the test match and the Lahore governor said the team was
flying home.

The attack will surely mean the end of international cricket in Pakistan for
months, if not years. Even before, most teams refused to tour the country
because of security concerns.

It will also have implications on the game's future in South Asia, its most
lucrative market.

"It is terrible incident and I am lost for words," said Steve Davis, an
Australian who was umpiring the match.

Nadeem Ghauri, a Pakistani umpire who witnessed the attack, said the umpires
were behind a bus of Sri Lankan players when they suddenly heard gunshots.

"The firing started at about 8.40am and it continued for 15 minutes," he said,
adding: "Our driver was hit, and he was injured."

Sri Lanka's President Mahinda Rajapaksa condemned the attack and called for the
players to come home immediately.

Mr Rajapaksa, currently on a visit to Nepal, called the attack cowardly and
ordered his foreign minister to travel to Pakistan immediately to help the
team's evacuation and ensure the players were safe and secure.

Military spokesman Brigadier Udaya Nanayakkara said authorities did not believe
the attack was carried out by Tamil Tiger rebels.

LOAD-DATE: March 3, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication


                    Copyright 2009 Thomas Crosbie Media Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              376 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                Grantham Journal

                             March 3, 2009 Tuesday

English umpire Chris Broad caught up in terror attack

LENGTH: 107 words


ENGLISH umpire Chris Broad, father of England bowler Stuart Broad, was caught up
in the bloody attack on the Sri Lankan cricket team.
Formerly of Waltham, he was spattered with blood after the attack on the bus as
his vehicle - travelling behind the team coach - was also attacked.Masked gunmen
armed with rifles and rocket launchers attacked the team bus near Gaddafi
Stadium in Lahore, wounding at least two players and killing five police
officers.It is as yet unclear who was behind the assault, but it appeared to
have been carefully co-ordinated and local police have described it as a
"terrorist attack".Click here to follow us on Twitter!

LOAD-DATE: April 23, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: GJ


                       Copyright 2009 Johnston Press Plc
                              All Rights Reserved

                              377 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                  Guardian.com

                                 March 3, 2009

'This was a planned terrorist attack'

LENGTH: 522 words



HIGHLIGHT: The governor of Punjab, Salman Taseer, believes that the attack on
the Sri Lanka cricket team was a 'planned terrorist attack'


Gunmen carried out a commando-style attack this morning on the visiting Sri
Lankan cricket team and their police escort in Lahore, wounding at least six of
the players.

In scenes reminiscent of the terrorist assault on Mumbai in November, armed
extremists attacked with heavy weapons, spraying the Sri Lankan team's bus with
bullets as it drove to the Gadaffi stadium in Lahore, according to witnesses and
cricket officials.

Two were said to have received "superficial" bullet wounds. Early reports say
that five policemen were killed and three injured.

Sri Lankan media, quoting the sports minister, said four players received minor
injuries in the attack -- Kumar Sangakkara, Ajantha Mendis, Thilan Samaraweera
and Tharanga Paranavithana.

Television footage showed glimpses of the assailants, running through the
streets, with machine guns in hand, rucksacks on their backs.

The attack, in Gulberg, a upmarket area of the city, happened around 9am local
time. The gunmen remain at large, having fled from the scene.

Police cordoned off the area, saying they would kill or capture the terrorists.
The team had been travelling towards the nearby cricket stadium.

The top policeman in Lahore city force, Habibur Rehman, said that there were
around 12 gunmen, at least some of whom arrived in auto-rickshaws, who attacked
the Sri Lankan team bus as it made its way to the Gaddafi Stadium.

"Because the police were protecting them (Sri Lankan team), we were the main
victims," said Rehman. "They (the gunmen) looked like trained people. The
security provided was good."

A rocket launcher and grenades were recovered from the scene. The Sri Lankan
team, which was playing a Test match against Pakistan in Lahore, is to be
evacuated immediately.

"This was a planned terrorist attack. They had heavy weapons," said Salman
Taseer, who heads the provincial government as Governor of Punjab, arriving at
the scene. "These were the same methods and the same sort of people as hit
Mumbai."

Some 170 people died in Mumbai in November, when a determined squad of militants
staged a three-day gun attack on the city.

Earlier this year, there was an armed attack on government buildings in the
middle of Kabul. With the attack in Lahore today, it seems that extremists may
have adopted new tactics, preferring guns to the suicide bombings that had
become their hallmark.

Cricket teams had stopped visiting Pakistan due to the country's deteriorating
security situation, with an international tournament cancelled last year and
Australia and India refusing to go on pre-planned tours. It was with great
difficulty that Pakistani cricket authorities managed to persuade Sri Lanka to
tour the country.

Sanath Jayasuriya, a Sri Lankan cricketer who was not part of the touring team,
said that, even in conflict-torn Sri Lanka, cricketers never became the target.
"The good news is that they (the team) are all safe," Jayasuriya said.

The second Test between Sri Lanka and hosts Pakistan has been called off
according to a Sri Lankan cricket board official. "We are trying to bring the
team back as quickly as possible. The test match has been cancelled," he told
Reuters.

LOAD-DATE: March 3, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


      Copyright  2009  Guardian Unlimited (© Guardian Newspapers Limited)
                              All rights reserved

                              378 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                  Guardian.com

                                 March 3, 2009

Sri Lankan cricketers recount Pakistan terror attack

LENGTH: 532 words



HIGHLIGHT: Players and eyewitnesses describe gunshots and chaos as gunmen
attacked bus


Eyewitnesses, including Mahela Jayawardene, captain of the Sri Lankan cricket
team, have described the terrifying moments when the Sri Lankan team bus came
under attack en route to the Gaddafi stadium in Lahore.

"The bus came under attack as we were driving to the stadium, the gunmen
targeted the wheels of the bus first and then the bus," Jayawardene told
Cricinfo. "We all dived to the floor to take cover. About five players have been
injured and also Paul Farbrace [a member of the support staff], but most of the
injuries appear to be minor at this stage and caused by debris."

Jayawardene was slightly injured in the foot.

Sri Lanka wicketkeeper Kumar Sangakkara told Pakistan's Geo TV: "Many players
were injured. The third umpire was also hit by shrapnel. This incident is
unfortunate. I don't regret coming to Pakistan but I regret the incident. I
would just like to go back home and be safe with my family. I had shrapnel
inside my shoulder, [Sri Lankan bowler] Ajantha [Mendis] had some in his scalp
and he also had a thigh injury. We are fine now. We are all out of danger now. I
am very happy that I am safe."

Nadeem Ghauri, the TV umpire, also told Geo TV: When the bus reached Liberty
Market, we heard gunshots. We hid under the seats. The driver got shot and died
on the spot. The firing continued. The other umpire, Ahsan Raza, was also shot.
The police managed to get us to the airport.

Former England all-rounder Dominic Cork has spoken of his shock following the
attack. Cork, who was in the stadium to perform commentary work for Pakistan TV,
told Sky Sports News: "The Sri Lankan players are quite shocked. They all fell
to the floor of the team bus when the attack happened.

"Some of them have wounds but I think most of them are superficial wounds. I
have spoken to [Kumar] Sangakkara, he has a shrapnel wound in his right
shoulder. The team are sitting in the changing room watching local TV. They are
waiting for helicopters to arrive to take them to a local army base and wait for
a connecting flight to Abu Dhabi."

Cork has also spoken to match official and former England opener Chris Broad,
who was in one of the vehicles attacked by armed gunmen just 100 metres from the
stadium.

"[Broad] said it was the most frightening experience of his life," said Cork.
"Their driver was shot and they had to ask a policeman to drive them to the
stadium."

Ghauri, who witnessed the attack, was quoted by the Associated Press as saying:
"The firing started at about 0840 [0340 GMT] and it continued for 15 minutes.
Our driver was hit, and he was injured."

Ahmed Ali, a local shopkeeper, told Reuters: "It was a very heavy firing and I
heard at least two explosions," he said.

Lahore police officer Haji Habib Rehman told Geo TV that "there were around 12
terrorists, they were wearing masks, they came by rickshaw according to our
information. And they tried to attack the Sri Lankan team. The police put up a
lot of resistance and I am proud of my policemen," he said.

A driver of one of the vehicles in the attacked convoy told Pakistan's private
Express news station that a man fired a rocket towards their van and then
someone threw a grenade, but the weapons missed their vehicle.

LOAD-DATE: March 3, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


      Copyright  2009  Guardian Unlimited (© Guardian Newspapers Limited)
                              All rights reserved

                              379 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                                Hartlepool Mail

                             March 3, 2009 Tuesday

Sport takes stock after terror attacks

LENGTH: 175 words


The sporting world was today waking up to a "changed landscape" following the
terror attacks on the Sri Lanka cricket team in Pakistan.


Sri Lanka have abandoned their tour, with the tragedy in Lahore coming before
the scheduled third day of the second Test.Thilan Samaraweera and Tharanga
Paranavitana were hospitalised after gunmen struck as the team bus made its way
to the Gaddafi Stadium.Captain Mahela Jayawardene, vice-captain Kumar
Sangakkara, Ajantha Mendis, Suranka Lakmal and Chaminda Vaas also sustained
lesser injuries as well as assistant coach Paul Farbrace, while at least five
policemen were killed.While any hopes of cricket being played in Pakistan over
the immediate future are now impossible, with the nation's status as a co-host
of the 2011 World Cup also set to come under review, International Cricket
Council president David Morgan issued a warning to others over possible repeat
attacks."It has completely changed the landscape. But it has changed the
landscape full stop - not just in the Indian sub-continent," said Morgan.

LOAD-DATE: April 23, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: HMJJ


                       Copyright 2009 Johnston Press Plc
                              All Rights Reserved

                              380 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                  London Lite

                             March 3, 2009 Tuesday
                                   Edition 2;
                                National Edition

Terror attacks put World Cup in doubt;
BREAKING NEWS...

SECTION: SPORT; Pg. 31

LENGTH: 125 words


THE ICC will review plans for the 2011 Cricket World Cup following the terrorist
attack on the Sri Lanka team coach in Lahore this morning.

Five policemen were killed and five players, including vice-captain Kumar
Sangakkara, were injured by shrapnel.

Pakistan is scheduled to host 14 games in the event as co-hosts alongside India,
Sri Lanka and Bangladesh, but ICC chief executive Haroon

Lorgat admitted talks about whether to switch World Cup matches away from
Pakistan in two years' time would be held shortly.

He said: "In the next day or two we will have to make some serious decisions and
we will.

"There obviously have been breaches and the security has not been good enough.
There will be some serious repercussions from this." BROAD'S TERROR: PAGE 5

LOAD-DATE: April 23, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: LOL


                   Copyright 2009 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              381 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                  Melton Times

                             March 3, 2009 Tuesday

Broad senior caught up in Lahore terror attack

LENGTH: 116 words


TUESDAY 10AM: English umpire Chris Broad, father of England bowler Stuart Broad,
was caught up in the bloody attack on the Sri Lankan cricket team.


He was spattered with blood after the attack on the bus as his vehicle
-travelling behind the team coach - was also attacked.Masked gunmen armed with
rifles and rocket launchers attacked the team bus near Gaddafi Stadium in
Lahore, wounding at least two players and killing five police officers.It is as
yet unclear who was behind the assault, but it appeared to have been carefully
co-ordinated and local police have described it as a "terrorist
attack".http://www.meltontimes.co.uk/latest-national-news/Cork-condemns-cricket-
team-attack.5031121.jp

LOAD-DATE: April 23, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: MT


                       Copyright 2009 Johnston Press Plc
                              All Rights Reserved

                              382 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                         Middlesbrough Evening Gazette

                             March 3, 2009 Tuesday
                                  FIN Edition

CRICKETERS' ATTACK HORROR;
Players are injured in 'terrorist' ambush

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 452 words


MASKED gunmen armed with rifles and rocket launchers attacked Sri Lanka's
national cricket team in Pakistan today, wounding at least two players and
killing five police officers.

It was unclear who was behind the assault, but it appeared to have been
carefully co-ordinated.

Lahore police chief Haji Habibur Rehman said five policemen died in the shooting
and two players were wounded. A Pakistan Cricket Board security official had
earlier said eight players were injured.

"It was a terrorist attack and the terrorists used rocket launchers, hand
grenades and other weapons," Mr Rehman said. He said police were hunting down
the attackers who managed to flee.

"Our police sacrificed their lives to protect the Sri Lankan team," he added.

He said one wounded player was hit in the leg while the other was shot in the
chest.

Sri Lankan team manager Brendon Kruppu said the team's batsman, Kumar
Sangakkara, was among those injured near Lahore's Gaddafi Stadium where the team
were to play.

Mr Rehman said 12 masked gunmen took part in the attack as the players were in a
white van.

The attack comes at a time of unrest in Pakistan and Sri Lanka.

Security concerns have plagued Pakistan for years and some foreign sports teams
have refused to play there.

Sri Lanka appeared on the brink of crushing the Tamil Tiger rebels after more
than 25 years of civil war. The rebels, who are fighting for an independent
state for the Tamil minority, are listed as a terror group by the US and EU.

A Sri Lankan foreign ministry official said two players - Thilan Samaraweera and
Tharanga Paranavitana - were taken to hospital.

He said three more players were slightly injured and the head coach, Australian
Trevor Bayliss, also received minor injuries.

A driver of one of the vehicles carrying the Sri Lankan players told Pakistan's
private Express news channel he saw a man firing a rocket towards their van, and
then someone hurled a grenade, but the weapons missed.

Authorities cancelled the test match and the Lahore governor said the team was
flying home.

Sri Lanka's President Mahinda Rajapaksa condemned the attack.

Military spokesman Brigadier Udaya Nanayakkara said authorities did not believe
the attack was carried out by Tamil Tiger rebels.

Former England cricketer Dominic Cork today said he would never return to
Pakistan after being caught up in the bloody attack on the Sri Lankan cricket
team.

Cork, who was working as a commentator for Pakistan TV, made it to the stadium
and managed to speak to wounded players and officials.

He told Sky News: "I won't be coming back here while I'm still living, there is
no chance.

"I don't think international cricket should return to this country."

LOAD-DATE: March 3, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:  HURRYING TO RESTORE ORDER: Police officers examine the shooting site
in Lahore, left, and bullet holes are seen on a window of a bus, which was
carrying the Sri Lankan cricketers, parked outside the Gaddafi Stadium after the
shooting, below
 SHOCK SINKS IN: Team coach Trevor Bayliss, below left, and Thilan Samaraweera,
centre, were reported as being injured in the attack
 Bollywood star Preity Zinta, who was watching a match between New Zealand and
India, wipes away a tear after hearing about the attack, below right

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                    Copyright 2009 Gazette Media Company Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                              383 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                                  News Shopper

                             March 3, 2009 Tuesday

BECKENHAM: Coach injured in Pakistan after terrorist attack on Sri Lankan
cricketers

SECTION: BROMLEY NEWS (BROMLEY NEWS)

LENGTH: 207 words


OFFICIALS at Kent County Cricket Club have confirmed that their former coach
suffered injuries in the terrorist attack in Pakistan this morning (March 3).

The club, which has a ground in Worsley Bridge Road, Beckenham, says that Paul
Farbrace suffered a shrapnel wound to his shoulder and was one of six member of
the touring party to be injured after gunmen opened fire on the Sri Lankan team
bus.

Mr Farbrace, assistant coach to the Sri Lankan national team, was on route to
the Gaddafi Stadiun in Lahore for the third day of their second test against
Pakistan.

According to a statement on its website, the club's professional cricket manager
Simon Wells was able to speak to Mr Farbrace after the attack and confirmed that
his injuries were not life threatening.

A spokesman for the English Cricket Board (ECB) said: "The ECB is shocked and
saddened by the senseless attack on the Sri Lanka cricketers and match officials
by terrorists in Lahore today.

"Our thoughts are with the families of those who have been killed or injured in
this despicable attack.

The ECB has also confirmed Mr Farbrace, the former Kent and Middlesex
wicketkeeper, was hurt in the attack and says the remaining Sri Lanka squad were
airlifted to safety by an army helicopter.

LOAD-DATE: March 3, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2009 NewsQuest Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              384 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                            PA Newswire: Sport News

                       March 3, 2009 Tuesday 5:50 PM BST

VICTIMS OF THE LAHORE TERROR ATTACK

LENGTH: 438 words


Six police officers and two civilians died in this morning's terrorist attacks
in Lahore, when the Sri Lanka cricket team were the intended target of gunmen.

Here are details of the players and officials who are believed to have sustained
injuries.

THILAN SAMARAWEERA

The 32-year-old was one of two players taken to hospital for treatment after the
attack. He began his cricket career as an off-spinner but developed into a Test
batsman with an average over 50. Scored a double hundred in the Lahore Test
before its abandonment.

THARANGA PARANAVITANA

Batsman and captain of Sinhalese Sports Club in his country's domestic
competition. The 26-year-old was called up to the senior squad for the first
time for the tour of Pakistan after impressing for Sri Lanka A in South Africa
last year. Also taken to hospital for treatment.

MAHELA JAYAWARDENE

Captain, 31, who led his country's one-day team to the 2007 World Cup final but
was due to step down as Test skipper after the Lahore match. A hugely talented
batsman, he averages more than 53 in Tests and 32 in ODIs.

KUMAR SANGAKKARA

A left-handed batsman and wicketkeeper - although he has handed the latter role
to Prasanna Jayawardene of late - the 31-year-old once topped the ICC's batting
rankings and is currently third. Averages just under 55 in his 80 Tests so far.

AJANTHA MENDIS

Prodigiously talented 23-year-old spinner who was named man of the series in
last year's Asia Cup, when he took six for 13 against India in the final.
Claimed eight wickets on his Test debut in India, and went on to take 18 more in
the two further matches of the series.

CHAMINDA VAAS

The 35-year-old is his country's greatest pace bowler with 354 wickets in 110
Tests and 400 in 322 ODIs. The first man ever to take eight wickets in a ODI,
against Zimbabwe, and claimed a hat-trick with the first three balls of the
match against Bangladesh in the 2003 World Cup.

SURANKA LAKMAL

The seamer, 21, is yet to make his Test debut after being called up for the
first time in Pakistan. Like Paranavitana, he gained recognition for the second
string in South Africa last year.

PAUL FARBRACE

The Englishman was appointed Sri Lanka's assistant coach in July 2007 after
spells with the England women's team and Under-19s. The 41-year-old had an
unremarkable 40-match first-class career with Kent and Middlesex as a
wicketkeeper.

AHSAN RAZA

The official was shot in the back by the attackers and taken to hospital where
his condition was described as critical. He was fourth umpire in the Lahore Test
and is a native of the city. The 34-year-old had a brief first-class career as a
wicketkeeper before turning to umpiring.

LOAD-DATE: March 3, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newswire


                  Copyright 2009 The Press Association Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              385 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                              The Sentinel (Stoke)

                             March 3, 2009 Tuesday

Cork escapes terror attack

SECTION: Pg. 1

LENGTH: 105 words


Former England cricketer Dominic Cork today said he would never return to
Pakistan after being caught up in the bloody attack on the Sri Lankan cricket
team.

Masked gunmen armed with rifles and rocket launchers attacked the team bus near
Lahore's Gaddafi Stadium, wounding at least two players and killing five police
officers.

Cork, who was working as a commentator for Pakistan TV, was not hurt.

The former pupil of St Joseph's College in Trent Vale said: "I won't be coming
back here while I'm still living, there is no chance."

The authorities immediately cancelled the test match and the Lahore governor
said the team was flying home.

LOAD-DATE: June 11, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: 51


                      Copyright 2009 The Sentinel (Stoke)
                              All Rights Reserved

                              386 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                              The Sentinel (Stoke)

                             March 3, 2009 Tuesday

Cork escapes terror attack

SECTION: Pg. 1

LENGTH: 105 words


Former England cricketer Dominic Cork today said he would never return to
Pakistan after being caught up in the bloody attack on the Sri Lankan cricket
team.

Masked gunmen armed with rifles and rocket launchers attacked the team bus near
Lahore's Gaddafi Stadium, wounding at least two players and killing five police
officers.

Cork, who was working as a commentator for Pakistan TV, was not hurt.

The former pupil of St Joseph's College in Trent Vale said: "I won't be coming
back here while I'm still living, there is no chance."

The authorities immediately cancelled the test match and the Lahore governor
said the team was flying home.

LOAD-DATE: August 21, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: 51


                      Copyright 2009 The Sentinel (Stoke)
                              All Rights Reserved

                              387 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                              The Sentinel (Stoke)

                             March 3, 2009 Tuesday

Cork escapes terror attack

SECTION: Pg. 1

LENGTH: 105 words


Former England cricketer Dominic Cork today said he would never return to
Pakistan after being caught up in the bloody attack on the Sri Lankan cricket
team.

Masked gunmen armed with rifles and rocket launchers attacked the team bus near
Lahore's Gaddafi Stadium, wounding at least two players and killing five police
officers.

Cork, who was working as a commentator for Pakistan TV, was not hurt.

The former pupil of St Joseph's College in Trent Vale said: "I won't be coming
back here while I'm still living, there is no chance."

The authorities immediately cancelled the test match and the Lahore governor
said the team was flying home.

LOAD-DATE: March 4, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: 51


                      Copyright 2009 The Sentinel (Stoke)
                              All Rights Reserved

                              388 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                Stamford Mercury

                             March 3, 2009 Tuesday

Cricket umpire witnessed terror attack

LENGTH: 104 words


CRICKET umpire Chris Broad was caught up in the bloody attack on the Sri Lankan
cricket team.Mr Broad, father of England bowler and former Oakham School pupil
Stuart Broad, was spattered with blood after the attack on the bus as his
vehicle -travelling behind the team coach - was also attacked.Masked gunmen
armed with rifles and rocket launchers attacked the team bus near Gaddafi
Stadium in Lahore, wounding at least two players and killing five police
officers.It is as yet unclear who was behind the assault, but it appeared to
have been carefully co-ordinated and local police have described it as a
"terrorist attack".

LOAD-DATE: April 23, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: STAM


                       Copyright 2009 Johnston Press Plc
                              All Rights Reserved

                              389 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring South Asia - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                            March 4, 2009 Wednesday

Punjab jihadi elements may be behind terror attack - Pakistan security

LENGTH: 870 words


Text of report headlined "Who is to blame for the 3/3 incident?" published by
Pakistan newspaper The News website on 4 March

Lahore: While many in Pakistan have already pointed the finger of suspicion at
India for masterminding the 3/3 terrorist attacks in Lahore, there were those in
the country's security establishment who suspect the possible involvement of
some Jihadi elements from the Punjab in the bloody assault, which clearly has
the hallmark of the 26/11 Mumbai terror attacks.

Tuesday's [3 March] terror attack is one of the worst strikes on the world of
sports since the assault on Israeli athletes at the Munich Olympics in 1972.
Although, there wasn't any official statement from Islamabad blaming India,
Interior Adviser Rehman Malik told newsmen in Islamabad he could not rule out a
"foreign hand" behind the carnage.

The Foreign Office spokesman in Islamabad refrained from directly blaming India
while condemning the attack, saying the assault was perpetrated by the enemies
of the Pak-Sri Lankan friendship. However, many of the Pakistani hawks, like the
former ISI chief Gen (retd) Hameed Gul, were quick to blame the Indian Research
and Analysis Wing (RAW) for staging a tit-for-tat attack to avenge the Mumbai
assault, saying India wanted Pakistan to be declared a terrorist state.

However, there were those in the country's security establishment who describe
the attack as a well thought-out plan orchestrated by the Punjabi militants, who
had been furious over some recent actions taken by the government in the
aftermath of the 26/11 terror attacks in Mumbai, especially the arrest of
several leading Jihadi leaders who were set to face a court trial. These
elements believe the double-edged blood-spattered attack was aimed at damaging
the credibility of the government for such a grave security failure, besides
releasing the rising pressure that had mounted over the Jihadi elements in
Pakistan after the 26/11 Mumbai attacks.

Sources in the security establishment added the Jihadis might be thinking that
the 3/3 attacks would force India to go on the back foot, as had been the case
with Islamabad after the Mumbai attacks and the ensuing allegations of a
Pakistani hand.

These sources pointed out the attack in Lahore, reportedly conducted by a group
of 12 armed men with backpacks, most of whom had beards, bore similarity to
those 10 gunmen with backpacks, who had carried out the Mumbai attacks. In the
first ever attack of its kind on any visiting cricket team across the world, at
least a dozen highly trained masked gunmen who had scattered in three groups,
first targeted the bus carrying the team with a rocket launcher (which
misfired), then tossed hand grenades (which could not hit the vehicle) and later
opened indiscriminate fire, killing seven people including five policemen, and
wounding six members of the Sri Lankan squad.

Talking to newsmen in Lahore after the attack, Punjab Governor Salmaan Taseer
said: "It was a planned terror attack and these were the same methods and the
same sort of people that had hit Mumbai."

On the other hand, a senior PPP [Pakistan Peoples Party] MNA [member of National
Assembly] from Sindh Nabeel Gabol has blamed India in so many words for having
carried out Tuesday's attack on the Sri Lankan team. Gabol, while speaking on
the Geo television, said: "The Lahore incident was a replay of the 26/11 attack
and most likely carried out by Indian intelligence agents. I am saying so
because of the fact that those investigating the gory incident have already
recovered some Indian-made weapons as well as food items from the crime scene."

In a related development, there were reports that former Inspector General of
Punjab Shaukat Javed, who was sent home after the imposition of governor's rule,
had warned the provincial authorities in an official communique on Jan 22, 2009
that the RAW agents in Pakistan might target the Sri Lankan cricket team during
its tour to Pakistan.

But the fact remains that there is no precedence for the Indian intelligence
agency having the ability to infiltrate an important urban capital of Pakistan
and carrying out such a well-organised and high-profile terrorist attack --
that, too, by using a whole group of gunmen.

Sources point out the RAW-sponsored terrorist attacks in Pakistan in the past
had been merely confined to bomb blasts of limited nature, which had been
carried out through time devices planted by individuals like Sarabjit Singh, who
is languishing in a Lahore jail after being condemned to death for killing over
a dozen Pakistanis in a series of bomb blasts across the Punjab in 1990.

However, the nature of the Lahore terror attack, which was well-coordinated and
carried out by a group of highly-trained gunmen armed with extremely
sophisticated explosives, seems reminiscent of the Mumbai attacks, which has
sparked fresh concerns that Pakistan, already wrecked by the Taliban and
al-Qaeda-linked militant violence, might be imploding. The bloody assault has
come as a huge setback to the government in Islamabad as it has confirmed fears
of the international community that Pakistan is one of the most dangerous places
on earth today.

Source: The News website, Islamabad, in English 04 Mar 09

LOAD-DATE: March 4, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2009 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              390 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                       BBC Monitoring Africa - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                            March 4, 2009 Wednesday

SAfrican paper condemns terrorist attack on Sri Lanka cricketers in Pakistan

LENGTH: 236 words


Text of report by South African privately-owned, established daily newspaper The
Star website on 4 March

[Editorial comment: "Terror Attack"]

Yesterday morning's attack on a convoy carrying Sri Lankan national cricket
players to a Test match in Lahore, Pakistan, again serves as a stark reminder of
the dangers posed by the scourge of terrorism. A dozen masked men armed with
rifles and rocket launchers opened fire, wounding at least five players and
killing five police officers.

Like in terrorist attacks in the last few years, the attackers yesterday struck
against a soft target which they knew would provide maximum publicity. It was
the case in New York, London, Madrid, Nairobi, Bali, and other places.

Lahore's high-profile attack took place three months after the Mumbai terror
attacks, which were allegedly carried out by Pakistani militants, and which
claimed about 170 innocent lives in India's commercial capital.

In 2002, a bomb exploded in Karachi while the New Zealand cricket team were
touring, killing 13 people including 11 French navy experts.

Yesterday's assault will have implications on the game's future in South Asia,
its most lucrative market. While it is premature to say who the perpetrators
are, the outrage will harm the game in a region where it commands a massive
following.

Terrorism must be condemned, irrespective of the motive.

Source: The Star website, Johannesburg, in English 4 Mar 09

LOAD-DATE: March 4, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2009 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              391 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                       BBC Monitoring Africa - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                            March 4, 2009 Wednesday

SAfrican paper slams Pakistani official's "delusional" remark on terror attack

LENGTH: 361 words


Text of report by influential, privately-owned South African daily Business Day
website on 4 March

[Editorial comment: "Domestic Terror More Likely than Tamil Tigers"]

THE game of cricket is not akin to a religion in Pakistan, as can sometimes
appear to be the case in neighbouring India, but it is nevertheless an important
source of national pride in a country that is desperately in need of unifying
factors. And that is almost certainly why the touring Sri Lankan cricket team
was chosen as a target by masked gunmen yesterday, leaving seven players and a
coach injured and at least six Pakistani policemen and civilians dead.

Fingers have been pointed at the Tamil Tigers, a Sri Lankan rebel group that has
been fighting a bloody liberation war for decades, but this seems unlikely.
Pakistan has more than enough home-grown terrorists with at least as much to
gain by disrupting an international cricket tour - the country has suffered more
than 60 suicide bombings by Islamic militants in the past year alone.

Sri Lanka was one of the few cricketing nations still prepared to travel there,
although this was always understood to have been motivated more by regional
solidarity with fellow victims of constant terror attacks than confidence that
its players were not at risk. SA, India, Australia, England, New Zealand and the
West Indies have all declined to visit Pakistan in recent years and their
cricket boards and security advisers' caution has now been thoroughly
vindicated.

Whatever motivated the perpetrators of this heinous act, it is clear that
Pakistan is too unstable to host international events, and Pakistan Cricket
Board chairman Ejaz Butt is delusional if he believes, as he was quoted as
saying yesterday, that the attack "could have happened anywhere". The
International Cricket Board will have to review immediately Pakistan's
participation in the planned joint hosting of the 2011 Cricket World Cup, or
risk commercial failure.

Foreigners are already nervous about visiting the region due to the spate of
terror attacks, and that fear seems unlikely to abate over the coming two years.

Source: Business Day website, Johannesburg, in English 4 Mar 09

LOAD-DATE: March 4, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2009 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              392 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                            Birmingham Evening Mail

                            March 4, 2009 Wednesday
                                 First Edition

Broad: I was a sitting duck;
HERO: Former England player relives Pakistan terror attack

BYLINE: James Marshall

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 310 words


A FORMER England batsman hailed a "hero" during the terror attack on the Sri
Lankan cricket team in Pakistan will arrive back in the UK today as the
authorities hunt the gunmen responsible.

Chris Broad reportedly shielded a wounded Pakistani umpire while at least a
dozen armed terrorists opened fire in Lahore yesterday.

It left six police guards and a civilian dead, with seven Sri Lankan players and
the team's British assistant coach Paul Farbace injured.

Broad, who flies back into Manchester today, was following the Sri Lankan team's
coach when it was ambushed close to the Gaddafi Stadium. It was due to host day
three of the second Test against Pakistan.

The shaken 51-year-old said he was a "sitting duck" as bullets hit his vehicle.

"There were five of us in the back of van all lying on floor just listening to
the crack of bullets going on around us and hitting the van," he said. "Every
time you heard a crack you just thought, 'This bullet's for me'."

Broad, now an International Cricket Council match referee, added: "The
terrorists had also killed our driver so we were stranded. Clearly the
terrorists targeted the drivers to try to get the bus stationary. We were
sitting ducks."

The attackers continued to fire at escorting police cars and vans for several
minutes before regrouping and calmly walking from the scene.

All remain on the loose.

Officials immediately scrapped the Test series between the two Asian countries
and the Sri Lankan players were recalled home.

Several countries had already cancelled planned tours there because of security
fears and the country is due to jointly host the world cricket championships in
2011.

No-one has claimed responsibility but the shooters used similar weapons and
tactics to the al Qaidalinked, Pakistan-based terrorists who murdered 164 people
in Mumbai, India, three months ago.

LOAD-DATE: March 4, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:  Sri Lankan cricketers, from left, Mahela Jayawardene, Chamara
Kapugedera and Tharanga Paranawitana and right, assistant coach Paul Farbrace,
head home.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


               Copyright 2009 Midland Independent Newspapers plc
                              All Rights Reserved

                              393 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                            Birmingham Evening Mail

                            March 4, 2009 Wednesday
                              City Centre Edition

Former coach tells of shock;
TRAGEDY: Cricket ace Moody on terror attack against old team

BYLINE: Edward Chadwick

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 318 words


FORMER Warwickshire and Worcestershire cricket ace Tom Moody has said the attack
on Sri Lanka's cricketers which left eight people dead was "nearly inevitable".

Moody, who coached the Sri Lankan team for three years after leaving Britain,
was shocked but not surprised by the terrorist assault early yesterday.

A team bus carrying the team was ambushed on its way to the Gadaffi Stadium in
Lahore where they had been playing Pakistan.

Six Sri Lanka players and their assistant coach Paul Farbrace were airlifted to
safety after being injured by shrapnel.

Former Worcester captain Moody, who also spent a year at Edgbaston in 1990,
said: "It was nearly inevitable given the turmoil that we've seen, not only in
Pakistan but the issues in Sri Lanka as well with the ongoing conflict there,
that a sporting team was going to be in the firing line so to speak at some
stage.

"It just highlights again that no one's safe, whether it's a sporting
organisation or just a member of the public going on holidays.

"It doesn't matter where it is, it's the world we're living in."

Former England batsman Chris Broad, now an umpire and the father of current
bowler Stuart, was hailed a hero for shielding a fellow match official from
gunfire during the bloodbath.

Six police officers and two civilians were shot dead by 12 gunmen in scenes
which bore a chilling similarity to last year's terror attacks on Mumbai.

FormerEnglandcricketerDominic Cork, who called for international cricket to
boycott Pakistan after being caught up in the attacks yesterday, said he would
never return to the country.

Arriving back at Birmingham International Airport, Cork said: "When you saw what
I saw and heard what I heard, you wouldn't go back.

"It's just a shame because there are some very decent cricket-loving people in
that country.

"It's a sad day that terrorism and sport have been linked and a team has been
targeted."

LOAD-DATE: March 4, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:  Cricketers, from left, Mahela Jayawardene, Chamara Kapugedera and
Tharanga Paranawitana head home and (right) Dominic Cork arrives at Birmingham
Airport.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


               Copyright 2009 Midland Independent Newspapers plc
                              All Rights Reserved

                              394 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                                The Bristol Post

                            March 4, 2009 Wednesday

Cricketer Chris proves a hero in the Pakistan terror attacks

SECTION: Pg. 1

LENGTH: 275 words


Former Gloucestershire and England cricketer Chris Broad leapt into action after
he was caught up Pakistan in terror attacks.

Chris, who was in Lahore in his role as an International Cricket Council match
referee, was praised for his bravery under fire as he jumped to the aid of an
injured colleague.

The former opening batsman, who enjoyed two spells with Gloucestershire as a
player, was travelling to the Gaddafi Stadium for the second test between
Pakistan and Sri Lanka when masked gunmen opened fire on their convoy.

The driver of the vehicle in which he was travelling was shot dead at the scene.
Broad jumped to defend local umpire Ehsan Raza after finding him injured.

Raza was shot in the back during the attack and Broad jumped on him to shield
him until the gunmen fled the scene.

The umpire was taken to hospital with life-threatening injuries.

Former England bowler Dominic Cork, who was working as a commentator for
Pakistan TV, told Sky Sports News that although Chris was unhurt he was left
splattered with blood after the attack.

"He said it was the most frightening experience of his life," said Dominic.

Chris, whose son Stuart is a current England international, was born in Knowle
near Bristol.

The opening batsman enjoyed two spells with Gloucestershire in a 15-year playing
career between 1979 and 1994 during which he won 25 test caps for England.

Gloucestershire County Cricket Club Chairman John Light said: "Chris' courage
has never been in doubt.

"He has never shirked a challenge and it appears this was no different."

Seven Sri Lankan players who were travelling on their team bus as part of the
convoy were injured in the attack.

LOAD-DATE: June 11, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: 25


                      Copyright 2009 Bristol United Press
                              All Rights Reserved

                              395 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                                The Bristol Post

                            March 4, 2009 Wednesday

Cricketer Chris proves a hero in the Pakistan terror attacks

SECTION: Pg. 1

LENGTH: 275 words


Former Gloucestershire and England cricketer Chris Broad leapt into action after
he was caught up Pakistan in terror attacks.

Chris, who was in Lahore in his role as an International Cricket Council match
referee, was praised for his bravery under fire as he jumped to the aid of an
injured colleague.

The former opening batsman, who enjoyed two spells with Gloucestershire as a
player, was travelling to the Gaddafi Stadium for the second test between
Pakistan and Sri Lanka when masked gunmen opened fire on their convoy.

The driver of the vehicle in which he was travelling was shot dead at the scene.
Broad jumped to defend local umpire Ehsan Raza after finding him injured.

Raza was shot in the back during the attack and Broad jumped on him to shield
him until the gunmen fled the scene.

The umpire was taken to hospital with life-threatening injuries.

Former England bowler Dominic Cork, who was working as a commentator for
Pakistan TV, told Sky Sports News that although Chris was unhurt he was left
splattered with blood after the attack.

"He said it was the most frightening experience of his life," said Dominic.

Chris, whose son Stuart is a current England international, was born in Knowle
near Bristol.

The opening batsman enjoyed two spells with Gloucestershire in a 15-year playing
career between 1979 and 1994 during which he won 25 test caps for England.

Gloucestershire County Cricket Club Chairman John Light said: "Chris' courage
has never been in doubt.

"He has never shirked a challenge and it appears this was no different."

Seven Sri Lankan players who were travelling on their team bus as part of the
convoy were injured in the attack.

LOAD-DATE: March 5, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: 25


                      Copyright 2009 Bristol United Press
                              All Rights Reserved

                              396 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                          Chemical News & Intelligence

                            March 4, 2009 Wednesday

Terror attack slows Pakistan s polymer trade

LENGTH: 307 words


SINGAPORE (ICIS news)--Polymer trade has slowed to a crawl in Pakistan due to
the ongoing political instability in the country and following Tuesday's terror
attack in Lahore, traders said on Wednesday.

"Trade in polyethylene (PE) and polypropylene (PP) has been rather tepid lately,
and the attack by terrorists has worsened the situation," a Karachi-based
polymer trader said.

"We don't know when the situation will improve," he added.

The attack on the Sri Lankan cricket team, which injured several players and
killed eight people including six policemen, has intensified the anxiety among
traders and processors about its possible fallout on Pakistan's economy.

"Sentiment was already weak due to the political wrangling between Pakistan's
ruling party and the opposition, and Tuesday's attack has made things worse,"
said a second polymer trader based in Pakistan.

A third Pakistani trader, who was in Lahore at the time of the attack, said PE
and PP buyers had retreated to the sidelines and were waiting for stability to
be restored before making fresh purchases.

The Karachi Stock Exchange's benchmark KSE-100 index shed 84.80 points or 1.5%
on Tuesday to close at 5,596.49 on a turnover of 75.72mn shares.

The KSE-100 fell 5% on 25 February in its worst single-day performance in 32
months after the Supreme Court nullified last year's election of opposition
leader and former prime minister Nawaz Sharif.

Pakistan has no PE or PP capacity and is totally dependent on imports. Annual
consumption of PE and PP in the country in the year ending June 2009 is
estimated at 200,000 tonnes and 220,000 tonnes, respectively.

For more on PE and PP, visit [1]ICIS chemical intelligence To discuss issues
facing the chemical industry go to [2]ICIS connect

References

1. http://www.icis.com/v2/chemicals/intelligence.aspx 2.
http://www.icis.com/icisconnect/

LOAD-DATE: March 12, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                Copyright 2009 Reed Business Information Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              397 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                      Coventry Evening Telegraph (England)

                            March 4, 2009 Wednesday
                                Nuneaton Edition

Driver saved us, says Sangakkara;
CRICKET: Former Warwickshire star reflects on his escape in Pakistan terror
attack

BYLINE: By Alistair Mason

SECTION: FEATURES; Pg. 98

LENGTH: 511 words


FORMER Warwickshire star Kumar Sangakkara was one of seven Sri Lankan cricketers
injured when gunmen attacked their team bus in Pakistan yesterday.

The wicketkeeper/batsman, who made his mark during a brief spell at Edgbaston in
2007, was one of seven players hurt in the attack, which also left six policemen
and one driver dead.

The convey carrying the squad and match officials was nearing the Gaddafi
Stadium in Lahore, where the second Test of the tour was being played, when the
gunmen struck and a 15 minute gun battle ensued.

Sangakkara, the Sri Lankan vicecaptain, said: "Suddenly everyone just said 'hit
the deck, quick, someone's shooting.' We just hit the floor of the bus and
stayed there and we heard the bullets hitting the bus and a few explosions.

"We had an amazing driver who just kept driving the bus straight through all of
that to the ground and that's probably what saved us.

"There are a few injuries but everyone is safe and all the players are out of
danger. We are shocked, but apart from that everyone is OK.

"Thilan Samaraweera has a shrapnel wound in his leg, but he is fine; Tharanga
Paranavitana had shrapnel in his chest, but thank God it wasn't very deep and
just on the surface.

"I had shrapnel injuries in my shoulder, but they have all been removed and I'm
OK now.

"Ajantha Mendis had shrapnel in his neck and scalp, but he too has had medical
attention and is fine.

"Everyone else is perfectly all right.

"It's very unfortunate that this has happened. Everything had gone on very well
until this morning, but it just goes to show that nothing is as it seems. I
don't regret coming here to play cricket because that's what we have been doing
all our lives.

That is our profession.

"But I regret this incident, what has happened and the situation that we have
had to go through.

"All we want to do now is to go back home to our families, get back home and be
safe."

Sri Lanka had stepped in at the last minute after India's tour of Pakistan was
cancelled because of strained relations between the two countries.

It was the first test series to be played in the country in 14 months after
Australia withdrew from a tour last year because of security concerns following
the assassination of former prime minister Benazir Bhutto.

Sri Lanka manager Brendon Kuruppu insisted they were right to travel.

"We are lucky that none of the players were injured critically. It is a very sad
situation, but we would have to take this incident into consideration when we
plan future tours to this country."

David Morgan, president of the International Cricket Council president, said the
attack would stop teams touring Pakistan in the near future because the safety
of the players had to be paramount.

"I believe the situation as it is currently stands in Pakistan is such that
there will be reluctance for cricketers to wish to return there," he said.

Indian Premier League commissioner Lalit Modi, however, does not expect the
attack to impact the second edition of the tournament.

"The IPL will go ahead as planned and I don't visualise any impact on it," he
said.

LOAD-DATE: March 4, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: UNDER FIRE... Bullet-holes in the Sri Lankan team bus that was attacked
by gunmen in Lahore yesterday; LUCKY ESCAPE... Kumar Sangakkara

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2009 Coventry Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              398 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                          The Daily Telegraph (London)

                            March 4, 2009 Wednesday

England batsman is hero;
of terror attack wounded colleague

BYLINE: Isambard Wilkinson in Lahore and Gordon Rayner

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 454  words


THE former England batsman Chris Broad has been praised after using his body to
shield an injured colleague during the terrorist attack on the Sri Lankan
cricket team that left eight people dead.

Mr Broad, 51, the father of the current England bowler Stuart Broad, threw
himself on top of the Pakistani umpire Ahsan Raza as he lay bleeding on the
floor of their minibus while a gun battle raged around them.

The men were stranded in the middle of the ambush after their driver was shot
dead. Mr Broad, in Lahore as a match referee, protected Mr Raza for more than 20
minutes until help arrived.

Last night Mr Broad said: ''Every time you heard a crack you just thought: 'this
bullet's for me'.''

Mr Raza was said to be recovering well after surgery on a wound to his lung.

The attack has exposed the vulnerability of all sporting events to terrorist
strikes, raising fears that international athletes will become the new target of
choice for Islamist extremists.

Another Pakistani umpire, Nadeem Ghouri, said Mr Broad was "very brave''.

Six commandos who had been protecting the Sri Lankan convoy were killed, along
with the driver and another civilian.Eight members of the Sri Lankan party,
including the British assistant coach Paul Farbrace, 41, suffered minor
injuries.

But they considered themselves lucky to have survived after their coach was
attacked with rocket-propelled grenades and hand grenades.

The attack has threatened to turn Pakistan into a pariah state for sport and
tourism.

All 12 of the masked gunmen who carried out the attack escaped in cars and
motorised rickshaws.

The Punjab-based militant group Lashkar-e-Taiba, blamed for the terror attacks
in Mumbai last year which killed 173, emerged as the prime suspect.

Dr Farzana Shaikh, an expert on Pakistan, said: "The nature of the attacks would
suggest similarities to the attacks in Mumbai.'' But several Pakistani officials
tried to deflect the blame on to India.

The Pakistani prime minister, Yousuf Raza Gilani,

telephoned Sri Lanka's president to express his regret

over a "well-planned conspiracy''.

Sardar Nabil Ahmed Gabol, minister of state for shipping, said: "The evidence we
have shows that these terrorists entered from across the border from India. This
was a conspiracy to defame Pakistan internationally.''

Pakistan's participation as a host nation of the 2011 World Cup was also thrown
into serious doubt, with the International Cricket Council chief executive
Haroon Lorgat saying it was "difficult to see international cricket being played
in Pakistan for the foreseeable future''.

Dominic Cork, the former England cricketer now a commentator for Pakistani TV,
said: "I won't be coming back here. I don't think international cricket should
return.''

LOAD-DATE: March 4, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2009 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              399 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                          The Daily Telegraph (London)

                            March 4, 2009 Wednesday

'We're now a prize target';
Sri Lanka star Sangakkara says cricketers are on extremist hit-list as he
survives terrorist attack;
in Pakistan.

BYLINE: Simon Briggs

SECTION: SPORT; Cricket; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 388  words


KUMAR SANGAKKARA, the Sri Lanka batsman who survived the hail of bullets,
rockets and grenades let loose on the team's bus in Lahore yesterday, admitted:
"Far from being untouchable, we were now prize targets.''

That was the grim realisation that struck Sangakkara, The Daily Telegraph
cricket columnist, as he said that he and his team-mates had been naïve in their
belief that terrorists would never attack a cricket team.

Not as naïve, however, as those in charge of security for this series. The Sri
Lankans had been promised "head of state'' levels of protection, but when the
bus arrived at the Liberty roundabout, 500 metres short of the Gaddafi Stadium,
a dozen gunmen trained their sights on it without being apprehended.

The attack came from all four sides, and only good fortune and the skills of bus
driver Mehar Mohammad Khalil prevented any of the players from losing their
lives. All-rounder Thilan Samaraweera was the worst hit, suffering a gunshot
wound in his thigh, but the damage was relatively minor. "He's a tough guy,''
said his agent Charlie Austin. "We have heard that he's OK, and he's rejoined
the team. From the medical advice, we only expect him to be out for two to three
weeks.''

The Pakistan team bus, which had travelled alongside the Sri Lankans on the
first two days of the match, was delayed and so avoided the attack. But the
minibus carrying the match officials, travelling behind the Sri Lankans, was
hit. The driver was killed and fourth umpire Ahsan Raza was in a critical
condition last night.

The idea that terrorists would never attack a cricket team, for fear of the
public outrage, has been widely circulated in Pakistan. But Reg Dickason, a
security adviser who works for the England and Australia teams, said yesterday
that his research had suggested that visiting sportsmen would represent a prime
target for any publicity-seeking terrorist group.

"The notion of sporting teams being a protected species was held by many,''
Dickason said, "but it was not a view that we shared.''

Haroon Lorgat, chief executive of the International Cricket Council, told
reporters that the ICC "will have to become a lot tighter in the way we assess
safety and security'' after the Lahore attacks. Even so, the responsibility of
protecting players and officials will remain primarily with the home board.

LOAD-DATE: March 4, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2009 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              400 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                                  The Express

                            March 4, 2009 Wednesday
                                U.K. 1st Edition

STAUSS: NO ONE IS SAFE;
Players 'vulnerable' after terror attack in Pakistan

BYLINE: By Colin Bateman in Barbados

SECTION: SPORT; 80

LENGTH: 108  words


ENGLAND captain Andrew Strauss admits cricketers can no longer feel safe
wherever they play and whatever the security measures As the England players
awoke in Barbados to hear of the terrorist attack on the Sri Lanka team bus in
Pakistan, it dawned on them their game would never be the same Strauss said:
"One argument that has always been used is that cricketers were unlikely to be
targeted - and that has now been proven wrong.

"It is one of those things where you never feel vulnerable until something like
this happens - then you are always feeling vulnerable.

" This proves that, no matter how much security you have, things like this can
happen."

LOAD-DATE: March 4, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: FACING FACTS: Strauss says it no longer matters how much security is in
place

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2009 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS
                              All Rights Reserved

                              401 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                  Guardian.com

                                 March 4, 2009

English referee Broad condemns Pakistan security over terrorist attack

LENGTH: 496 words



HIGHLIGHT: Security forces deserted cricket convoy having promised
'presidential-style' security, says official caught up in attack on Sri Lankan
cricketers


The former England cricketer caught up in yesterday's terrorist attack in
Pakistan said he felt like a sitting duck as heavily armed terrorists opened
fire.

Chris Broad, who was travelling with the Sri Lanka team when they came under
attack, described the moment the gunmen attacked saying he was lucky not to be
killed.

"Most of us were just lying on the floor waiting for a bullet to hit us," he
told a press conference today.

"Clearly the terrorists targeted the drivers to try and get the bus stationary.
We were sitting ducks," said Broad, an International Cricket Council match
referee.

The former opening batsmen launched a scathing attack on the Pakistani security
forces who he said had deserted the convoy "in its hour of need".

He said the party had been promised a high level of security but this vanished
at the crucial moment.

"I am very angry with the security forces ... at every junction there were
police in light blue uniforms with guns patrolling the traffic so how did the
terrorists come to the roundabout and start firing? There were plenty of police
there yet these terrorists came in and did what they had to do and then went -
it is beyond me."

Six security guards were killed and seven Sri Lankan cricketers injured when up
to 14 gunmen launched an attack on the team's coach as it approached the Gaddafi
stadium in Lahore.

In close-ups of the TV footage, two gunmen are seen running across a road
holding machine guns.

One is dressed in a brown shalwar kameez - a traditional outfit of baggy
trousers and shirt - while the other is wearing a western-style blue shirt and
trousers. Both appear to be clean-shaven, but the images are blurred.

None of the estimated 14 gunmen were killed. All fled the scene after a
15-minute shootout with the security officials guarding the cricket convoy.

Broad said he had an "inkling" before the Test match leg of the tour that
something might happen.

"I raised my concerns with the ICC before the tour started and they passed on
those concerns to the Pakistan Cricket Board and they assured me through email
that all security would be taken care of in presidential style. And clearly that
didn't happen.

"When we were in the van we weren't aware of what was going on outside. But
afterwards when you watch the TV pictures you can clearly see the white van we
were in, in the middle of a roundabout and not a sign of a policeman anywhere."

The 51-year-old's bravery has been highlighted after he lay on top of the
critically injured local umpire Ahsan Raza in the van, the driver of which was
killed by gunfire.

Broad, struggling to hide his emotion, said: "I'm not a hero. Ahsan Raza took a
bullet to the stomach or chest - somewhere in the spleen and lung region. I was
lying behind him on the floor of the van and there were bullets flying all
around us.

"I only noticed he was injured when I saw a large pool of blood had spilled on
to the floor and out of the partially opened van door. He's just an umpire who
loves the game."

LOAD-DATE: March 4, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


      Copyright  2009  Guardian Unlimited (© Guardian Newspapers Limited)
                              All rights reserved

                              402 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                              The Herald (Glasgow)

                            March 4, 2009 Wednesday
                                 Final Edition

Pakistan in disbelief as hunt for gunmen begins;
Cricket community in shock after eight die in terrorist attack reminiscent of
Mumbai atrocity

BYLINE: DAMIEN HENDERSON

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 804 words


THE global cricketing  community was last night recoiling  from a terrorist
attack on the Sri Lanka team in Pakistan which left seven policemen and a driver
dead, and threatened to make the country a sporting pariah.

With the prospect of future matches in Pakistan rapidly diminishing yesterday,
Britain's Sports Minister, Gerry Sutcliffe, pushed for its national team to play
its "home" games in England, a move that received a warm reception in Australia.

At least a dozen men ambushed Sri Lanka's cricket team with rifles, grenades and
rocket launchers, converging on the squad's convoy as it drove through a traffic
circle near an eastern Pakistani stadium in Lahore, triggering a 15-minute
gunbattle with police guarding the vehicles.

Seven players, an umpire and a British coach were wounded, none with
lifethreatening injuries.

Paul Farbrace, Sri Lanka's British assistant coach, said he was lucky to have
only received superficial wounds in the attack. He told the BBC:

"There was a lot of shouting and people hitting the floor, and when I got to the
floor I realised that the blood that I could see was coming from me - luckily
superficial wounds."

The assault, just ahead of a match, was one of the worst terrorist attacks on a
sports team since Palestinian militants killed 11 Israeli athletes at the 1972
Munich Olympics.

Sri Lanka had agreed to this tour - allowing Pakistan to host its first test
matches in 14 months - only after India and Australia backed out of scheduled
trips over security concerns. The assault will end hopes of international
cricket teams, or any sports teams, playing in the country for months, if not
years.

Yesterday's attack drew immediate parallels with the Mumbai terror strikes that
killed 164 people three months ago. Those raids were allegedly carried out by
Pakistan militants and the assault in Lahore resembled them in many respects.
Both were co-ordinated, used multiple gunmen, apparently in teams of two, who
were armed with explosives and assault rifles and apparently had little fear of
death or capture.

By attacking south Asia's most popular sport, the gunmen guaranteed themselves
tremendous international attention while demonstrating Pakistan's struggle to
provide its 170 million people with basic security as it battles a raging
Islamist militancy.

Pakistani Prime Minister Yousuf Raza Gilani said the incident "has humiliated
the country" and the head of the Interior Ministry, Rehman Malik, declared
Pakistan was "in a state of war".

The attackers struck as a convoy carrying the squad and match officials reached
a traffic circle 300 yards from the main sports stadium in the eastern city of
Lahore.

Mr Malik said authorities were investigating whether the attackers wanted to
take hostages. "We are looking at the possibility the gunmen wanted to hijack
the bus and take it to a nearby building and create a drama, " Mr Malik told the
Associated Press. "The way they came prepared and in large numbers indicates
such a plan."

Yesterday's attackers  melted away into the city and none was killed or
captured, city police chief Haji Habibur Rehman said. The attackers abandoned
machine guns, rocket-propelled grenades and plastic explosives, Punjab police
chief Khwaja Khalid Farooq said. They carried backpacks stuffed with dried
fruit, mineral water and walkie-talkies - provisions also abandoned at or near
the scene, officials said.

Authorities did not speculate on the identities of the attackers, but the chief
suspects will be Islamist militants, some with links to al Qaeda, who have
staged highprofile attacks on civilian targets before.

Authorities will also consider possible links to Sri Lanka's Tamil Tiger
separatist rebels, though this is considered less likely by security analysts.

"These people were highly trained and highly armed. The way they were holding
their guns, the way they were taking aim and shooting at the police, it shows
they were not ordinary people, " said Salman Taseer, the governor of Punjab
province. "This is the same style as the terrorists who attacked Mumbai."

The bus driver, Mohammad Khalil, accelerated as bullets ripped into the vehicle
steering the team to the safety of the stadium. The players - some of them
wounded - ducked down and shouted "Go! Go!" as he drove through the ambush.

Two Sri Lankan players - Thilan Samaraweera and Tharanga Paranavitana - were
being treated for bullet wounds in a hospital but were stable, said Chamara
Ranavira, a spokesman for the Sri Lankan High Commission.

Umpire Ahsan Raza was hit in his abdomen . Team captain Mahela Jayawardene and
four other players had minor injuries  Cricket's world governing body admitted
it did not see Pakistan playing at home in the foreseeable future and supported
the suggestion that it could play on neutral venues.

Cricket wilderness   Sport Leader  Page 14

LOAD-DATE: March 5, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: DEATH TOLL: The bodies of Pakistani policeman who were killed by the
attackers lie at a hospital in Lahore. Picture: Reuters AMBUSH: A video image
shows gunmen firing at a police vehicle.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: GH


                      Copyright 2009 Newsquest Media Group
                              All Rights Reserved

                              403 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                          Huddersfield Daily Examiner

                            March 4, 2009 Wednesday
                                  1ST Edition

Local cricketers in terror attack;
Two escape unharmed from Pakistan shooting

BYLINE: DAVE HIMELFIELD News Reporter

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 590 words


A PAIR of Sri Lankan cricketers, at the centre of yesterday's Pakistan terrorist
attack, are former members of local clubs.

It is understood Malinda Warnapura, who played 17 matches for Mirfield Parish
Cavaliers in 2006, and Thilan Thushara, who played for Hanging Heaton Cricket
Club, Batley, in 2006 and 2007, both escaped without injury.

Earlier yesterday it was believed that Thushara had been hurt when gunmen, armed
with rifles and rocket launchers opened fire on their team's tour bus at the
Liberty Square roundabout in central Lahore, near Gaddafi Stadium.

Six police officers and two civilians were killed and seven players were injured
ahead of the third day of the second Test yesterday.

Batsmen Thilan Samaraweera and Tharanga Paranavitana, who were hurt in the
attack, were taken to hospital for treatment.

Captain Mahela Jayawardene, wicketkeeper Kumar Sangakkara, spinner Ajantha
Mendis, speed bowler Chaminda Vaas and seamer Suranka Lakmal are also thought to
have been hurt.

Englishman Paul Farbrace, who was appointed as Sri Lanka's assistant coach in
July, 2007, is also thought to have been injured.

Pakistani officials said about 12 gunmen were involved and grenades and rocket
launchers have been recovered.

Barry Fretwell, former secretary of Meltham Parish Cavaliers CC, said:
"Obviously Malinda and the others have had a lucky escape.

"As a guy Malinda was great. We met his wife as well. We used to keep her
entertained while he was playing.

"He mixed very well with us all. He wasn't shy and he was liked in the dressing
room.

"He came to practices and helped with the teaching. He was an excellent
professional cricketer. I'm not surprised he got as far as he did. He was a
great spin bowler and an excellent batter.

"I was very concerned when I heard about the attacks."

John Higson, committee member for Hanging Heaton CC, added: "I'm feeling very
sad. I didn't know (Thushara) very well. I watched him play on the odd occasion.

"I can't see Pakistan getting any test cricket for years after this."

Meanwhile Former England cricketer Chris Broad was hailed a hero after
reportedly shielding a wounded Pakistani umpire as gunmen fired at them.

Broad, 51, was shaken by the ordeal, which saw him caught up in the bloody
terror attacks in Pakistan, according to his son Stuart Broad.

He was following the Sri Lankan team's coach when it was ambushed.

According to reports, Broad, a former England opening batsman and now an
International Cricket Council match referee, threw himself on top of a local
umpire when they too came under fire.

Broad covered injured Pakistani umpire Ahsan Raza with his own body.

Raza had been shot and Broad was trying to protect him from more bullets.

Stuart Broad, also an England cricketer, revealed his father witnessed things
"he never wanted to see" during the terrorist attack in Lahore.

"My dad saw things that he never expected to see and he never wants to see
again," said Broad junior, who was travelling with the England team to Trinidad
from Barbados.

"It was dreadful. I spoke to him in the early hours of this morning and he was
obviously very shook up by it all. It has obviously been really heart-breaking
for him."

The Test series between the two Asian countries was immediately scrapped in the
immediate aftermath of the attack and the Sri Lankan players not requiring
hospital treatment were flown out of the ground, where they had taken refuge, by
helicopter.

"He got safely out of Pakistan to Abu Dhabi, I think," Stuart Broad, 22, added.

LOAD-DATE: March 4, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:  HORROR: Bodies of the police officers who died in the shooting, at a
Lahore hospital
 IN ACTION: Malinda Warnapura

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                           Copyright 2009 MGN Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              404 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                              Liverpool Daily Echo

                            March 4, 2009 Wednesday
                                  1ST Edition

FAMILY'S TERROR AT HAIL OF BULLETS;
Attack ordeal at home of businessman

BYLINE: BEN ROSSINGTON Crime Reporter

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 333 words


TWO Merseyside businessmen came under fire from gun-toting gangsters.

Property developer Terry Riley and entrepreneur John Ball were both targeted by
thugs with guns and petrol bombs.

Mr Ball's home in Selworthy Road, Birkdale, and his security company office in
Southport were attacked on Monday night.

Mr Ball's family were pinned inside their home at around 10.25pm by a hail of
bullets.

Mr Ball had just left the house and it is believed found the tyres on his car
had been shot out.

As many as seven bullet casings are thought to have been found outside Mr Ball's
home by forensic officers and at least one bullet pierced the front window of
the house.

A neighbour, who did not want to be named, said: "It is terrifying. Nothing like
this has happened before and you do not want that kind of thing happening where
you live."

Around half an hour after the shooting, the offices of EEC Security, in Hall
Street, Southport, went up in flames. A window was broken and petrol poured
inside before it was lit.

Police today said they were investigating possible links to a similar attack on
the Crosby home of Mr Riley in January.

As he left his home in Elm Avenue at around 10.20pm, the property was shot at. A
petrol bomb was then found underneath his black 4x4, which was parked in the
drive.

Mr Riley and Mr Ball were involved in the change of hands of Shorrocks Country
Club, in Lifeboat Road, Formby, in 2005.

Mr Riley's company, The Ascot Group, paid pounds 1m to take the nightclub,
restaurant and leisure facility from Mr Ball.

Police are looking for two men seen running away along Hall Street in the
direction of Kensington Road after the arson at EEC Security.

They were in their early 20s, of slim build and were wearing black clothes and
balaclavas.

A Merseyside police spokeswoman said: "It is being considered as to whether the
two shooting incidents are linked."

Anyone with information should call police on 0800 458 1211 or Crime stoppers
anonymously on 0800 555111.

LOAD-DATE: March 4, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:  GUN DRAMA: There was a shooting incident in Selworthy Road, Birkdale,
at the home of a Mersey businessman Picture: Gavin Trafford
 DRAMA: Police at the scene of the shooting in Birkdale

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


               Copyright 2009 The Liverpool Daily Post & Echo Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                              405 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                  London Lite

                            March 4, 2009 Wednesday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

Sri Lankan cricketers return home after terror attack hell;
World at a glance

SECTION: FEATURES; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 144 words


SRI LANKAN cricketers flew home today to an emotional reunion with their
families after surviving the terror attack in Pakistan. Looking exhausted, the
players embraced their wives and children in Colombo.

A special flight carried the squad, including players Thilan Samaraweera and
Tharanga Paranavitana who had been treated in hospital for bullet wounds.
Ajantha Mendis had a bandage on his head after suffering wounds in the Lahore
ambush.

He and several others went to hospital after arriving home. Captain Mahela
Jayawardene said: "I'm very happy to come back to Sri Lanka. Every breath I take
I'm glad that I can take it without a problem."

Around a dozen gunmen attacked the team's bus with rifles, grenades and rockets
yesterday, killing six police and two civilians. Police detained several
suspects, but said none were gunmen.

'WE'RE SO LUCKY': SEE SPORT PAGE 35

LOAD-DATE: April 23, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Safely home: wounded cricketer Ajantha Mendis

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: LOL


                   Copyright 2009 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              406 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                   Metro (UK)

                            March 4, 2009 Wednesday
                                   Edition 1;
                                    Scotland

State of war;
Pakistan pledges to flush out terrorists as eight die in attack on Sri Lanka
cricketers

BYLINE: Fred Attewill

SECTION: FEATURES; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 284 words


PAKISTAN said it was in a 'state of war' last night after gunmen opened fire on
the Sri Lanka cricket team in the heart of Lahore.

The warning came in the wake of the carefully executed ambush on the team's
convoy which left six police officers and two others dead.

Seven players and English assistant coach Paul Farbrace were wounded, while
fourth umpire Ahsan Raza was in a critical condition in hospital after being
shot in the back. All the dozen or so gunmen fled the scene after a 30-minute
firefight with police.

Suspicion fell on militant group Lashkar-e-Taiba - widely blamed for the Mumbai
attacks which killed 164 in November. The head of Pakistan's interior ministry,
Rehman Malik, said his country was 'in a state of war'.

He added: 'We will flush out all these terrorists from this country.' The attack
happened as players and officials headed to the Gaddafi Stadium for the third
day of the second Test.

The gunmen, who were said to be well trained despite appearing to be little more
than teenagers, arrived on the scene in rickshaws. They were armed with
rocket-propelled grenades, hand grenades and assault rifles.

The driver of the Sri Lanka team bus was hailed a hero for driving the
cricketers to safety as bullets tore through the vehicle. Seven players,
including captain Mahela Jaya- wardene, vice-captain Kumar Sangakkara and star
pace bowler Chaminda Vaas, were injured by shrapnel.

Pakistani prime minister Yousuf Raza Gilani said the incident 'has humiliated
the country', while British foreign secretary David Miliband said the attacks
were 'a deadly reminder of the threat from indiscriminate and violent extremism
in Pakistan'.

'We saw the rockets fired and all hell broke loose' P4- 5

LOAD-DATE: April 23, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Assault rifles, rocketpropelled grenades and hand grenades captured
from the Lahore gunmen are put on display by security officials in the city
yesterday
Picture: EPA

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: MTR


                   Copyright 2009 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              407 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                   Metro (UK)

                            March 4, 2009 Wednesday
                                   Edition 1;
                                    Scotland

ICC fears for future after terror attack

SECTION: SPORT; Pg. 40

LENGTH: 207 words


THE International Cricket Council last night warned the terrorist attack on the
Sri Lanka team in Pakistan served as a warning to all sports for their future
security. Sri Lanka abandoned their tour of the country following yesterday's
events and while there is no possibility of cricket being played in Pakistan in
the immediate future, with their status as a co-host of the 2011 World Cup also
set to come under review, ICC president David Morgan issued a warning to others.
'It has completely changed the landscape,' he said. 'Cricket is not that
different from other sports. I am sure other sporting administrations will be
very concerned.'

England bowler Stuart Broad (pictured) has revealed his father Chris Broad had
witnessed things 'he never wanted to see' during the attack. Broad snr, 51, the
match referee for the Lahore Test, was travelling behind the tourists' team
coach when it was ambushed by gunmen. Six policemen died in the attack and Broad
tried to protect Pakistani umpire Ahsan Raza, who had been shot, by covering him
with his own body.

'His driver was shot and killed,' said his son Stuart. 'Two other people in his
vehicle were shot. He was very shook up. It has been heartbreaking for him.'

Pakistan face bleak future P36

LOAD-DATE: April 23, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: MTR


                   Copyright 2009 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              408 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                                   Metro (UK)

                            March 4, 2009 Wednesday
                     London and all shared stories Edition

ICC FEARS FOR FUTURE AFTER TERROR ATTACK

SECTION: Pg. 44

LENGTH: 200 words


The International Cricket Council last night warned the terrorist attack on the
Sri Lanka team in Pakistan served as a warning to all sports for their future
security. Sri Lanka abandoned their tour of the country following yesterdays
events and while there is no possibility of cricket being played in Pakistan in
the immediate future, with their status as a co-host of the 2011 World Cup also
set to come under review, ICC president David Morgan issued a warning to others.
It has completely changed the landscape, he said. Cricket is not that different
from other sports. I am sure other sporting administrations will be very
concerned. England bowler Stuart Broad (pictured) has revealed his father Chris
Broad had witnessed things he never wanted to see during the attack. Broad snr,
51, the match referee for the Lahore Test, was travelling behind the tourists
team coach when it was ambushed by gunmen. Six policemen died in the attack and
Broad tried to protect Pakistani umpire Ahsan Raza, who had been shot, by
covering him with his own body. His driver was shot and killed, said his son
Stuart. Two other people in his vehicle were shot. He was very shook up. It has
been heartbreaking for him.

LOAD-DATE: March 4, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2009 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              409 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                                   Metro (UK)

                            March 4, 2009 Wednesday
                                 Dublin Edition

8 DEAD AS TERRORISTS ATTACK CRICKET TEAM

SECTION: Pg. 1

LENGTH: 178 words


PAKISTAN said it was in a state of war yesterday after gunmen opened fire on the
Sri Lanka cricket team in the heart of Lahore. The announcement came in the wake
of the carefully executed ambush on the teams convoy which left six police
officers and two other people dead. Seven players and English assistant coach
Paul Farbrace were wounded, while fourth umpire Ahsan Raza was in a critical
condition in hospital after being shot in the back. All the dozen or so gunmen
fled the scene after a 30-minute firefight with police. Suspicion fell on
militant group Lashkar-e-Taiba widely blamed for the Mumbai attacks which killed
almost 170 people in November. The head of Pakistans interior ministry, Rehman
Malik, said his country was in a state of war. He added: We will flush out all
these terrorists from this country. Cricket Ireland president John Caldwell said
he had been in contact with the Sri Lankan and Pakistani cricket boards and
conveyed his condolences to those caught up in the atrocity. Our thoughts and
prayers are with them at this difficult time, he said.

LOAD-DATE: March 4, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Arsenal: Pakistani security officials display some of the weapons
seized after the attack on the Sri Lankan cricket teamPicture: EPA

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2009 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              410 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                                   Metro (UK)

                            March 4, 2009 Wednesday
                     London and all shared stories Edition

STATE OF WAR;
PAKISTAN PLEDGES TO FLUSH OUT TERRORISTS AS EIGHT DIE IN ATTACK ON SRI LANKA
CRICKETERS

BYLINE: FRED ATTEWILL

SECTION: Pg. 1

LENGTH: 272 words


PAKISTAN said it was in a state of war last night after gunmen opened fire on
the Sri Lanka cricket team in the heart of Lahore.

The warning came in the wake of the carefully executed ambush on the teams
convoy which left six police officers and two others dead.

Seven players and English assistant coach Paul Farbrace were wounded, while
fourth umpire Ahsan Raza was in a critical condition in hospital after being
shot in the back. All the dozen or so gunmen fled the scene after a 30-minute
firefight with police.

Suspicion fell on militant group Lashkar-e-Taiba widely blamed for the Mumbai
attacks which killed 164 in November. The head of Pakistans interior ministry,
Rehman Malik, said his country was in a state of war.

He added: We will flush out all these terrorists from this country. The attack
happened as players and officials headed to the Gaddafi Stadium for the third
day of the second Test.

The gunmen, who were said to be well trained despite appearing to be little more
than teenagers, arrived on the scene in rickshaws. They were armed with
rocket-propelled grenades, hand grenades and assault rifles.

The driver of the Sri Lanka team bus was hailed a hero for driving the
cricketers to safety as bullets tore through the vehicle. Seven players,
including captain Mahela Jayawardene, vice-captain Kumar Sangakkara and star
pace bowler Chaminda Vaas, were injured by shrapnel.Pakistani prime minister
Yousuf Raza Gilani said the incident has humiliated the country, while British
foreign secretary David Miliband said the attacks were a deadly reminder of the
threat from indiscriminate and violent extremism in Pakistan.

LOAD-DATE: March 4, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Assault rifles, rocket- propelled grenades and hand grenades captured
from the Lahore gunmen are put on display by security officials in the city
yesterday Picture: EPA

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2009 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              411 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                                   Metro (UK)

                            March 4, 2009 Wednesday
                                Glasgow Edition

STATE OF WAR;
PAKISTAN PLEDGES TO FLUSH OUT TERRORISTS AS EIGHT DIE IN ATTACK ON SRI LANKA
CRICKETERS

BYLINE: FRED ATTEWILL

SECTION: Pg. 1

LENGTH: 429 words


The pension given to Sir Fred Goodwin of RBS is actually £703,000 a year and not
the earlier figures of £650,000 or £693,000, it emerged yesterday. The
settlement could have been cut to £416,000 if he had been sacked. [#x276f]P7 A
tense Alpine rescue in which a missing snowboarder was found dead was played out
live on Twitter. The search for Rob Williams was co-ordinated via the site by
his worried friends, including former Apprentice star Michelle Dewberry
[#x276f]P13 Rangers boss Walter Smith has told his players not to worry about
the goal difference between his side and Celtic in the battle for the league
title. The manager told his players simply to concentrate on winning their
remaining games [#x276f]P40 A review was ordered yesterday after a man was found
guilty of killing toddler Brandon Muir. A judge will sentence Robert Cunningham
later this month. The child protection review will take place in Dundee, headed
by a former police chief [#x276f]P9 PAKISTAN said it was in a state of war last
night after gunmen opened fire on the Sri Lanka cricket team in the heart of
Lahore.

The warning came in the wake of the carefully executed ambush on the teams
convoy which left six police officers and two others dead.

Seven players and English assistant coach Paul Farbrace were wounded, while
fourth umpire Ahsan Raza was in a critical condition in hospital after being
shot in the back. All the dozen or so gunmen fled the scene after a 30-minute
firefight with police.

Suspicion fell on militant group Lashkar-e-Taiba widely blamed for the Mumbai
attacks which killed 164 in November. The head of Pakistans interior ministry,
Rehman Malik, said his country was in a state of war.

He added: We will flush out all these terrorists from this country. The attack
happened as players and officials headed to the Gaddafi Stadium for the third
day of the second Test.

The gunmen, who were said to be well trained despite appearing to be little more
than teenagers, arrived on the scene in rickshaws. They were armed with
rocket-propelled grenades, hand grenades and assault rifles.

The driver of the Sri Lanka team bus was hailed a hero for driving the
cricketers to safety as bullets tore through the vehicle. Seven players,
including captain Mahela Jayawardene, vice-captain Kumar Sangakkara and star
pace bowler Chaminda Vaas, were injured by shrapnel.Pakistani prime minister
Yousuf Raza Gilani said the incident has humiliated the country, while British
foreign secretary David Miliband said the attacks were a deadly reminder of the
threat from indiscriminate and violent extremism in Pakistan.

LOAD-DATE: March 4, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Assault rifles, rocket- propelled grenades and hand grenades captured
from the Lahore gunmen are put on display by security officials in the city
yesterday Picture: EPA

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2009 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              412 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                                   The Mirror

                            March 4, 2009 Wednesday
                                 3 Star Edition

TERROR LINK TO INDIA ATTACKS;
THE VICTIMS

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 82 words


ALTHOUGH no group has claimed responsibility, the Lahore attacks are very
similar to those in Mumbai last November.

The Indian authorities blamed a Pakistan Islamic militant group,
Lashkar-e-Taiba. Pakistan admitted at least nine of the 10 Mumbai terrorists had
links with LeT.

Sri Lanka's Tamil Tigers are also in the frame. They have been fighting Sri
Lankan forces in the north for more than 20 years.

Another possible suspect are the Pakistani Taliban, who have been blamed for
previous attacks.

LOAD-DATE: March 4, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: WOUNDED Mendis, Jayawardene, Sangakkara, Samaraweera, Vaas and
Paranavitana were all hurt

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                            Copyright 2009 MGN Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              413 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                                   The Mirror

                            March 4, 2009 Wednesday
                                 1 Star Edition

A BLOODY HERO;
CRICKET STAR'S COURAGE AS TERROR ATTACK SHOCKS WORLD

BYLINE: BY ANDREW GREGORY

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 470 words


BRAVE ex-England cricketer Chris Broad was hailed a hero last night after he
saved a wounded umpire in the Pakistan terror attack.

He threw himself on top of Ahsan Raza as the Sri Lankan team's convoy was
ambushed by fanatics with machine guns and rocket launchers.

Chris, 51, who was left covered in blood, said: "There were five of us lying on
the floor listening to the crack of bullets all around us and hitting the van.
Every time you heard a crack you just thought 'This bullet's for me'. We were
sitting ducks." Umpire Nadeem Gouri, who saw Chris hurl himself on Raza, said:
"He was very brave. There were bullets flying all around us."

The 14 masked terrorists killed six policemen and a bus driver as well as
wounding seven Sri Lankan players and their English coach Paul Farbrace.

All the killers were last night being hunted in the city of Lahore.

No one has claimed responsibility but the attack was strikingly similar to
November's Mumbai massacre by Islamic fundamentalists.

The Lahore ambush is the worst attack on a sports team since Palestinian
extremists killed 11 Israeli athletes at the 1972 Munich Olympics.

The terrorists struck as the Sri Lankan convoy and its police escort approached
the Gaddafi stadium for a Test match against their hosts.

Assistant coach Paul, a former Kent cricketer who was in the team bus, was hit
by shrapnel. He said: "It was panic - lying on the floor and hearing guns
firing. At some point the bus stopped and people were shouting to the driver to
move. That was the point where you think you are a sitting duck and anything
could happen."

Ex-England cricketer Dominic Cork, working in Pakistan as a commentator, told
how he saw stunned match referee Broad covered in blood.

He said: "To me, the lasting image will be the sight of the match referee with
his ICC shirt spattered and smeared with blood.

"I'd only been at the stadium for about three minutes when I heard two
explosions and the crackle of gunfire.

"Then the Sri Lankan team bus pulled through the gates in a hurry with apparent
bullet holes.

"Players were carried off in bloodstained tracksuits and the physio was
screaming for ambulances."

The terrorists had arrived on rickshaws before blasting the team convoy 300
yards from the stadium.

Chris and Raza were in a van following the Sri Lanka squad. They were stranded
outside the stadium when their driver was shot dead.

Raza was hit in the back but survived. After shielding Raza, Chris yelled for
help and attracted the attention of another driver, who took the coach into the
stadium.

Chris, dad of England Test star Stuart, later phoned wife Michelle back in
England to tell her he was OK - but did not mention his bravery.

She said: "Bless him - he is very modest. But he was very, very shaken. He said
it was the most frightening thing that's ever happened to him."

LOAD-DATE: March 4, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: VIOLENCE Two gunmen; SELFLESS Chris Broad; SLAUGHTER Two police
officers lie dead yesterday; INJURED English coach Paul Farbrace; CALL Chris
Broad's wife Michelle

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                            Copyright 2009 MGN Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              414 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                                   The Mirror

                            March 4, 2009 Wednesday
                                 1 Star Edition

TERROR LINK TO INDIA ATTACKS;
THE VICTIMS

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 80 words


AMONG the suspects for the Lahore attack are the terrorists who caused carnage
in Mumbai last November.

The Indian authorities blamed a Pakistan Islamic militant group,
Lashkar-e-Taiba. Pakistan admitted at least nine of the 10 Mumbai terrorists had
links with LeT.

Sri Lanka's Tamil Tigers are also in the frame. They have been fighting Sri
Lankan forces in the north for more than 20 years.

Other possible suspects are the Pakistani Taliban, who have been blamed for
previous attacks.

LOAD-DATE: March 4, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: WOUNDED From top, Paranavitana, Samaraweera, Mendis, captain
Jayawardene, Vaas and Sangakkara

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                            Copyright 2009 MGN Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              415 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                            Nottingham Evening Post

                            March 4, 2009 Wednesday

Lahore attacks: Security not yet being upped at trent bridge;
Notts cricketing legend Chris Broad threw himself on top of umpire Ahsan Raza
during the Lahore terrorist gun attack, it has been revealed.

BYLINE: CHRIS BIRKLE

SECTION: Pg. 5

LENGTH: 309 words


The former England opening batsman, now a match referee, was caught up in the
gun attack on the Sri Lankan cricket team yesterday.

His son  Stuart Broad, who was travelling with the England cricket team to
Trinidad from Barbados, said: "My dad saw things that he never expected to see
and he never wants to see again, It was dreadful. I spoke to him in the early
hours  and he was obviously very shook up by it all. It has obviously been
really heart-breaking for him."

The bloody attacks in Pakistan claimed the lives of seven. Chris, of West
Bridgford, was in the bus behind the Sri Lankan team bus and left covered in
blood. The former England Test opener avoided injury and went to the aid of
injured fourth umpire Ehsan Raza, who yesterday remained in a critical
condition.

England and Wales Cricket Board chief executive David Collier said he was
relieved that Chris, 51,   had escaped unscathed. He said: "From what we
understand he played a significant role in ensuring the fourth umpire was
brought out to safety. Thank goodness he's safe and away from the area now."

Chris was flown to Abu Dhabi yesterday and was expected back in the UK this
afternoon. He called his wife Miche at 4.15am yesterday to let her know he was
safe.

Meanwhile Notts Police says it has no immediate plans to step up security for
Trent Bridge's next high profile game.

Chief Inspector Steve Haylett said a series of measures were already in place to
ensure the safety of visitors to Trent Bridge during the ICC World Twenty20.
They could be stepped up if necessary.

Derek Brewer, chief executive of Nottinghamshire County Cricket Club, said:
"Whenever we run a major event at Trent Bridge we make detailed plans and for
ICC World Twenty20 that planning started as soon as we won the right to host the
tournament." Security expert Sir John Evans will be in charge of  that aspect.

LOAD-DATE: August 21, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: 48


                     Copyright 2009 Nottingham Evening Post
                              All Rights Reserved

                              416 of 500 DOCUMENTS



             PA Regional Newswire of English Regions: EAST MIDLANDS

                      March 4, 2009 Wednesday 1:49 PM BST

PAKISTANI SECURITY VANISHED IN TERROR ATTACK, SAYS BROAD

SECTION: PA Regional Newswire for English Regions

LENGTH: 190 words


Former England and Nottinghamshire batsman Chris Broad has spoken of his anger
towards the Pakistani security forces who he said ran for cover during the
terror attack in Lahore.

The Test match referee was in a van with other officials which was targeted
along with the Sri Lanka team bus as they travelled to the Gaddafi Stadium.

Speaking at a press conference on his return to the UK, Broad, 51, said: ``I am
extremely angry that we were promised high-level security and in our hour need
that security vanished.

``I am extremely fortunate to be here today.

``I had an inkling before the Test match leg of the tour that something might
happen.

``I raised my concerns with the ICC before the tour started and they passed on
those concerns to the Pakistan Cricket Board and they assured me through email
that all security would be taken care of - presidential-style security. And
clearly that didn't happen.

``When we were in the van we weren't aware of what was going on outside. But
afterwards when you watch the TV pictures you can clearly see the white van we
were in, in the middle of a roundabout and not a sign of a policeman anywhere.''
end

LOAD-DATE: March 4, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newswire


                  Copyright 2009 The Press Association Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              417 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                            PA Newswire: Sport News

                      March 4, 2009 Wednesday 4:30 AM BST

VICTIMS OF THE LAHORE TERROR ATTACK

LENGTH: 438 words


Six police officers and two civilians died in yesterday morning's terrorist
attacks in Lahore, when the Sri Lanka cricket team were the intended target of
gunmen.

Here are details of the players and officials who are believed to have sustained
injuries.

THILAN SAMARAWEERA

The 32-year-old was one of two players taken to hospital for treatment after the
attack. He began his cricket career as an off-spinner but developed into a Test
batsman with an average over 50. Scored a double hundred in the Lahore Test
before its abandonment.

THARANGA PARANAVITANA

Batsman and captain of Sinhalese Sports Club in his country's domestic
competition. The 26-year-old was called up to the senior squad for the first
time for the tour of Pakistan after impressing for Sri Lanka A in South Africa
last year. Also taken to hospital for treatment.

MAHELA JAYAWARDENE

Captain, 31, who led his country's one-day team to the 2007 World Cup final but
was due to step down as Test skipper after the Lahore match. A hugely talented
batsman, he averages more than 53 in Tests and 32 in ODIs.

KUMAR SANGAKKARA

A left-handed batsman and wicketkeeper - although he has handed the latter role
to Prasanna Jayawardene of late - the 31-year-old once topped the ICC's batting
rankings and is currently third. Averages just under 55 in his 80 Tests so far.

AJANTHA MENDIS

Prodigiously talented 23-year-old spinner who was named man of the series in
last year's Asia Cup, when he took six for 13 against India in the final.
Claimed eight wickets on his Test debut in India, and went on to take 18 more in
the two further matches of the series.

CHAMINDA VAAS

The 35-year-old is his country's greatest pace bowler with 354 wickets in 110
Tests and 400 in 322 ODIs. The first man ever to take eight wickets in a ODI,
against Zimbabwe, and claimed a hat-trick with the first three balls of the
match against Bangladesh in the 2003 World Cup.

SURANKA LAKMAL

The seamer, 21, is yet to make his Test debut after being called up for the
first time in Pakistan. Like Paranavitana, he gained recognition for the second
string in South Africa last year.

PAUL FARBRACE

The Englishman was appointed Sri Lanka's assistant coach in July 2007 after
spells with the England women's team and Under-19s. The 41-year-old had an
unremarkable 40-match first-class career with Kent and Middlesex as a
wicketkeeper.

AHSAN RAZA

The official was shot in the back by the attackers and taken to hospital where
his condition was described as critical. He was fourth umpire in the Lahore Test
and is a native of the city. The 34-year-old had a brief first-class career as a
wicketkeeper before turning to umpiring.

LOAD-DATE: March 4, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newswire


                  Copyright 2009 The Press Association Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              418 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                          Press Association Mediapoint

                      March 4, 2009 Wednesday 1:31 PM BST

BROAD: PAKISTANI SECURITY VANISHED DURING TERROR ATTACK

BYLINE: Kim Pilling, Press Association

SECTION: HOME NEWS

LENGTH: 1707 words


Former England batsman Chris Broad spoke today of his anger towards the
Pakistani security forces who he said ran for cover during the terror attack in
Lahore.

The Test match referee was in a van with other officials which was targeted
along with the Sri Lanka team bus as they travelled to the Gaddafi Stadium.

Speaking at a press conference on his return to the UK, Broad, 51, said: ``I am
extremely angry that we were promised high-level security and in our hour of
need that security vanished.

``I am extremely fortunate to be here today.

``I had an inkling before the Test match leg of the tour that something might
happen.

``I raised my concerns with the ICC before the tour started and they passed on
those concerns to the Pakistan Cricket Board and they assured me through email
that all security would be taken care of, presidential-style security. And
clearly that didn't happen.

``When we were in the van we weren't aware of what was going on outside. But
afterwards when you watch the TV pictures you can clearly see the white van we
were in, in the middle of a roundabout and not a sign of a policeman anywhere.''

Broad was hailed a hero as he shielded wounded Pakistani umpire Ahsan Raza on
the floor of the van after at least a dozen armed terrorists opened fire ahead
of the third day of the Second Test yesterday.

The officials were abandoned by local police when their driver was shot dead in
the attack, Broad said.

``Once the shooting had died down, Nadeem Ghouri (a Test umpire) put his head up
to see and there was no-one there,'' he recalled.

``At some stage an elite policeman went into the van and ended lying on top of
me. It was not a particularly brave thing for him to do.

``I told him he must get us away but he said in broken English that he could not
drive.

``Eventually another policeman opened the front door and he took the driver out
unceremoniously and dumped him on the floor and drove us to the ground.

``At every junction from the hotel to where we were attacked there were police
in uniforms with handguns controlling the traffic.

``How did the terrorists come up to the roundabout and start firing and these
guys did nothing about it?

``There were plenty of police there but these terrorists came in, did what they
wanted to do and then got out of there.''

He added: ``I am angry at the Pakistani security forces because we were promised
we would get presidential-style security.

``Imran Khan (former Pakistan cricketer) said on television he was embarrassed
at the level of security. He would not accept it and we should not have had to
accept it.''

Appearing tired and strained, he told reporters at Manchester Airport that he
had not slept since the incident.

``I find it difficult to sleep at the moment because there are so many images
going through my mind. It's something that I'm going to have to come to terms
with.

``Fortunately, I was able to speak to both my daughter and my son on the morning
of the incident. I spoke to my wife as well, I woke her up at four o'clock in
the morning - she wasn't best pleased but she was glad to know the situation.
Their minds were put at rest.

``I don't think it's really hit any of us yet, it probably will when we go home
having time and thoughts to ourselves. Then it might just hit home what we've
been through, because it was certainly an unbelievable experience.''

Broad said he first became aware they were under siege when he saw the Sri Lanka
team bus come to a halt along with their vehicle and then heard ``popping
sounds''.

He added it was umpire Raza who first shouted at everyone to get down.

``I'm not a hero. Ahsan Raza took a bullet to the stomach or chest - somewhere
in the spleen and lung region. I was lying behind him on the floor of the van
and there were bullets flying all around us.

``I only noticed he was injured when I saw a large pool of blood had spilled on
to the floor and out of the partially opened van door.

``He's just an umpire who loves the game.''

Broad said he felt sadness for those injured and killed in the atrocity,
particularly the driver.

``One of the loveliest men you could ever wish to see. Always had a smile on his
face. He was just doing his job, driving to the cricket ground,'' he said.

``I feel sorry for his family. I send my best wishes.''

Broad reiterated his concerns about security ahead of the game.

``It was off the back of the ICC meeting where the Oval Test match result had
changed, there had been a UN envoy that had been kidnapped in Pakistan and, of
course, the Champions Trophy had been taken away from Pakistan,'' he said.

``I just thought as an Englishman, particularly with the Oval Test match, I know
feelings ran fairly high over that particular match. I just felt a little
concerned for my own safety that something might happen to me.

``But, as I said, I was assured by Zakir Khan, the director of cricket
operations in the PCB, that everything would be fine.

``I was there for the one-day series and everything went well - as well as it
has normally gone in Pakistan.

``Once you get assurances from someone who's actually living in the country and
knows the situation, it's very difficult to change your view on that and I went
along with it.''

He said England's cricket security advisers were ``amazed'' the Sri Lanka tour
went ahead and said England would not have travelled.

Broad suggested the International Cricket Council (ICC) could take more control
over decisions on security issues rather than leaving it to national boards.

He said he would speak again with his son, Stuart, on tour with England in the
West Indies, later today, ``just to reassure him that all things have gone
well''.

Broad added that international cricket is unlikely to ever be the same in the
wake of the incident.

``I think this has shocked the world of cricket,'' he said. ``I hope this has
made people sit up and think. In certain circumstances, things take a long time
to change in cricket, but in this case things will have to happen fairly
quickly.

``I don't know what the future holds for Pakistan cricket. They have a lot of
very talented cricketers, and I feel sorry for the cricketers and for the
cricket-mad public of Pakistan. They love to see cricket, they come in great
numbers to one-day internationals.

``But this is a death knell for cricket in Pakistan and I feel sorry for those
people.''

Pakistani cricket and government officials denied the allegations about
insufficient security.

Officials said the convoy transporting the Sri Lankan team and cricket officials
was surrounded by police vehicles at the front, rear and side, but travelled the
same route each day of the five-day test match.

PCB chief Ijaz Butt said: ``How can Chris Broad say this when six policemen were
killed?''

He declined further comment until he had a chance to speak to Broad.

Broad said the 12-seater van left his hotel at 8.40am and as normal travelled
behind the Sri Lanka team bus as it had done at the previous two test matches in
the series.

The terrorists struck at the roundabout half-a-mile from the stadium, he said.

He said: ``We travelled the same way. Maybe we should have travelled a different
route every day.

``Clearly it was a well organised operation because they realised we would be
going slowly at the roundabout.

``To be honest I was not aware of a huge amount of what was going on. We heard a
lot of bullets going off and heard explosions, so obviously grenades went off at
some point.''

He said he was sat behind the driver who managed to park the vehicle at the side
of an ambulance in an attempt to protect them from the gunfire. He was shot dead
moments later.

``All of a sudden I saw a blood spurt come out of his neck and the bullet must
have come out the other side.

``I heard him groan and then another bullet hit him a minute or two later.

``He was clearly dead because his foot pressed on the accelerator. Fortunately
it was not in gear.''

He then saw blood pour from the back of umpire Rasa as they lay on the floor.

``I put some pressure on the wound and he was groaning and saying prayers I
guess.

``I talked to him to give him confidence to get through it.''

Broad said Rasa was a young man who gave up his job at a bank for a career as an
umpire and had ``plenty of potential''.

``He loved doing the job and he ended up with a bullet in his chest, which is
ridiculous,'' he said.

He added he would talk to his son about playing in the forthcoming Indian
Premier League series but said the fast bowler would be advised by the ECB on
security issues and ultimately it was his son's decision.

Pakistani police said they have detained some suspects in connection with the
attack which left six police guards and the van driver dead.

Seven Sri Lankan players and the team's British assistant coach Paul Farbrace
were injured.

The attackers continued to fire at escorting police cars and vans for several
minutes before regrouping and calmly walking from the scene. All remain on the
loose.

Today, senior police official Haji Habibur Rehman said none of those detained
during raids overnight were the gunmen in the highly co-ordinated assault, but
the suspects were being questioned in hopes of garnering leads.

``So far we have not made any headway toward the perpetrators,'' he said.

Overnight, a special flight carried the Sri Lankan team and officials -
including cricketers Thilan Samaraweera and Tharanga Paranavitana, who had been
treated in hospital for bullet wounds - to Colombo, where the exhausted-looking
players had an emotional reunion with their families.

Funerals for the Pakistani policemen also took place in Lahore last night.

Officials immediately scrapped the Test series between the two Asian countries.

The attack was instantly condemned by sporting bodies and threw into doubt
Pakistan's place in world sport.

Several countries had already cancelled planned tours there because of security
fears and the country is due to host the world cricket championships in 2011.

England were due to participate in the ICC Champions Trophy last September but
strong advice from security experts forced the ICC to postpone the event.

No-one has claimed responsibility but the gunmen used similar weapons and
tactics to the al Qaida-linked, Pakistan-based terrorists who murdered 164
people in Mumbai, India, three months ago.

LOAD-DATE: March 5, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newswire


                  Copyright 2009 The Press Association Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              419 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                          Press Association Mediapoint

                      March 4, 2009 Wednesday 2:40 AM BST

WE WERE SITTING DUCKS SAYS TERROR ATTACK CRICKET HERO

BYLINE: Matt Dickinson, Press Association

SECTION: HOME NEWS

LENGTH: 923 words


A former England batsman hailed a ``hero'' during the terror attack on the Sri
Lankan cricket team in Pakistan will arrive back in the UK today as the
authorities hunt the gunmen responsible.

Chris Broad reportedly shielded a wounded Pakistani umpire while at least a
dozen armed terrorists opened fire in Lahore yesterday.

It left six police guards and a civilian dead, with seven Sri Lankan players and
the team's British assistant coach Paul Farbace injured.

Broad, who flies back into Manchester today, was following the Sri Lankan team's
coach when it was ambushed close to the Gaddafi Stadium. It was due to host day
three of the second Test against Pakistan.

The shaken 51-year-old said he was a ``sitting duck'' as bullets hit his
vehicle.

``There were five of us in the back of van all lying on floor just listening to
the crack of bullets going on around us and hitting the van,'' he said.

``Every time you heard a crack you just thought, 'This bullet's for me'.

Broad, now an International Cricket Council match referee, added: ``The
terrorists had also killed our driver so we were stranded. Clearly the
terrorists targeted the drivers to try and get the bus stationary. We were
sitting ducks.''

The attackers continued to fire at escorting police cars and vans for several
minutes before regrouping and calmly walking from the scene. All remain on the
loose.

Officials immediately scrapped the Test series between the two Asian countries
and the Sri Lankan players were recalled home.

The attack was instantly condemned by sporting bodies and threw into doubt
Pakistan's place in world sport.

Several countries had already cancelled planned tours there because of security
fears and the country is due to host the world cricket championships in 2011.

No-one has claimed responsibility but the shooters used similar weapons and
tactics to the al Qaida-linked, Pakistan-based terrorists who murdered 164
people in Mumbai, India, three months ago.

Rehman Malik, the head of Pakistan's interior ministry, said the country was
``in a state of war''.

The match officials had been travelling in a second bus behind the Sri Lanka
team when the attacks occurred about half a mile from the stadium.

The Sri Lanka bus also came under gunfire - injuring the seven players and
Farbrace - but was able to drive away from the incident after shots aimed at
their driver missed.

Broad said there had been no indication of trouble as they travelled to the
ground in the same manner they had the previous two days of the Test match.

``Nothing seemed out of the ordinary - the roads were blocked off as normal and
there were lots of police around,'' he added.

``When we got to a roundabout about half a mile from the ground, things changed.
Initially there was what I would describe as a popping sound.

``The local umpire (Ahsan Raza) said to me, 'Get on the floor, get on the
floor'. So we all dived on the floor and that is where we stayed for seven to 10
minutes while everything went on around us.''

Broad's son Stuart, also an England cricketer, said his father had been shaken
up by the experience.

``My dad saw things that he never expected to see and he never wants to see
again,'' Broad, 22, who was travelling with the England team to Trinidad from
Barbados, said.

Former Middlesex and Kent wicketkeeper Farbrace was among those hurt by flying
shrapnel as they lay on the floor of the team coach.

``I exchanged text messages this morning with him,'' said the England and Wales
Cricket Board's Hugh Morris. ``Thankfully he is OK.''

England were due to participate in the ICC Champions Trophy last September but
strong advice from security experts forced the ICC to postpone the event.

Shadow foreign secretary William Hague said it was a ``cowardly attack designed
to create fear and isolate and destabilise Pakistan''.

``The Pakistani government must continue to intensify its efforts to tackle
extremism and terrorism on its soil, and it will need the full support of the
international community to do this,'' he said.

ICC president David Morgan said cricket ``must go on, it will go on'' after the
attacks in Pakistan but admitted it was an ``an ''extremely sad`` day for the
sport.

Speaking at a press conference at Lord's, he said: ``On many occasions we have
been told that cricketers would not be targeted in Pakistan.

``This morning's events have proved that to be incorrect.

``But cricket must go on, it will go on. It's a great game.''

He went on: ``We have to provide the safest possible environment for cricket to
be played.

``It is such that there will be a great reluctance for cricketers to wish to
return there.

``But the current situation need not perpetuate way into the future.

``We mustn't believe Pakistan is going to remain unsafe for ever and ever.''

ICC chief Mr Lorgat added: ``It's difficult to see international cricket being
played in Pakistan in the foreseeable future.''

Mr Morgan added that the attack ``has completely changed the landscape, it has
changed the landscape full stop''.

But he said the game still provided ``solace'' and ``entertainment'' for many
people around the world.

It also emerged the fourth umpire, a local official, was injured and remains in
a critical condition in hospital following the attack, Mr Lorgat said.

He added there had been no specific threat against any of the teams before
today's attacks.

England cricketer Stuart Broad, whose father Chris was spattered with blood
during the attacks, told Sky News his father was ``very shook up'' but was now
``safe and well'' and looking forward to returning to the UK.

LOAD-DATE: March 4, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newswire


                  Copyright 2009 The Press Association Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              420 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                               The Sun (England)

                            March 4, 2009 Wednesday
                                   Edition 1

It could've been any one of us!;
STRAUSS ANGUISH AT SRI LANKA ATTACK... TERRORIST HORROR LEAVES CRICKET IN CHAOS

BYLINE: JOHN ETHERIDGE

SECTION: SPORT; Pg. 54,55

LENGTH: 829 words


ENGLAND captain Andrew Strauss last night insisted every cricketer in the world
is a target for terrorist attack after the horror of the Lahore massacre.

His warning came in the wake of yesterday's bloodshed in which five Sri Lankan
players were injured, six policeman and two passers-by killed.

Strauss said: "You never feel vulnerable until something like this then you're
always feeling vulnerable.

"Wherever we go in the world, we have very good security but I suppose this
proves that, no matter how much security, there is always a chance that
something can happen.

"One argument that was used is that it was very unlikely cricketers would be
targeted. Clearly, that has been proven wrong. That's not a good situation for
cricketers.

"But people have died and that's more important than us thinking about any
future tours and that sort of stuff.

"It's been a terrible day for the game of cricket and the families of the
victims."

But despite the tragedy the megabucks Indian Premier League is set to continue
with IPL commissioner Lalit Modi adamant that a massive security operation will
protect the teams. Modi, the game's biggest power-broker, said: "The IPL will go
ahead as planned and I don't visualise any impact on it.

"A few dates will change due to the general elections but we will get underway
on April 10.

"Yes, we have had our share of attacks in the past but India is a very safe
country. We will ensure we leave no stone unturned in ensuring the safety of
players and spectators.

"We have already put in place several security measures following the Mumbai
terror attacks. There is always a remote chance something may happen and the
agency we have engaged have based their plans on several unrealistic but
possible incidents happening.

"We are fully prepared and we will make sure we are on top of security issues on
a day-to-day basis. The Indian government is also very serious about security.
Measures are in place when players travel from hotel to the stadium.

"After the attacks in Mumbai, the England team returned to Chennai and we took
every possible security angle into account. It was a dress rehearsal for us."

Former skipper Kevin Pietersen is one of five England Test squad players who
must decide about returning to India for the IPL.

At the moment he is more concerned about the dead and injured in Pakistan. He
said: "I'm not even thinking about the IPL today. I'm totally thinking about
this catastrophe and the people who have lost their lives.

Injured

"There are the Sri Lankan players and Paul Farbrace, their assistant coach, who
have been injured as well as Stuart Broad's dad. I know the Sri Lankan players
well - we were there just over a year ago and now this has happened."

KP has signed for the Bangalore Royal Challengers for about £1million, the same
price Andrew Flintoff attracted from Chennai Super Kings at last month's
auction. Paul Collingwood, Ravi Bopara and Owais Shah are also signed up.

It would be only natural if some of them had doubts about playing, especially as
they recall the Mumbai massacre last December, which forced England to quit
their tour of India for five days.

England managing director Hugh Morris has the power to withdraw players from the
IPL if he considers it a security risk.

He said: "It is a different country, a different situation. The security levels
in India before Christmas were very high.

"We always say the safety and security of our players is of paramount
importance. That is the stance of the ECB and it always will be."

It is unlikely international cricket will return to Pakistan for many years.
They had not hosted a Test for more than a year until the current series against
Sri Lanka and last September's Champions Trophy was cancelled.

New Zealand yesterday announced they were pulling out of their tour, planned for
later this year.

Meanwhile, Kent fast bowler Amjad Khan is poised for his debut in the Fifth Test
against West Indies on Friday as England try to find a way of taking 20 wickets.

j.etheridge@thesun.co.uk

Hero Broad - P 12, 13

CORK: I WON'T RETURN

DOMINIC CORK revealed at first hand the horror of the Lahore attacks and said
international cricket should not return to Pakistan.

The former pace ace, 37, (below) working as a TV pundit for the series with Sri
Lanka, said: "I won't be coming back here, there is no chance.

"I don't think international cricket should return to this country."

Ex-Pakistan captain Wasim Akram admitted: "Hosting the 2011 World Cup alongside
India is now a distant dream. How do you expect foreign teams to come to
Pakistan now?"

The terrorist attack sparked outrage with Testplaying nations.

Australia captain Ricky Ponting said: "An act of violence is a terrible thing
and when it involves those who are part of our cricketing family, players the
world over are affected."

Indian skipper MS Dhoni: "I'm happy we weren't allowed to tour there. It may
have happened to us." South Africa captain Graeme Smith said: "This is a tragedy
for all decent people."

LOAD-DATE: March 4, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: CARNAGE . . . soldiers inspect a blood-stained police car after the
attack by gunmen (below)
VULNERABLE ... Strauss is worried after shock attack

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: SUN


                    Copyright 2009 NEWS GROUP NEWSPAPERS LTD
                              All Rights Reserved

                              421 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                               The Times (London)

                            March 4, 2009 Wednesday
                                   Edition 1

Cricket shudders on day it becomes target for terror;
Gun attack raises fears for sport's future in sub-continent

BYLINE: Mike Atherton

SECTION: SPORT; Pg. 74,75

LENGTH: 1316 words


Stuart Broad was fast asleep in his Barbados hotel room at 2am when he had a
phone call from his father. The England fast bowler was a bit disorientated and
confused as to why his old man should be ringing at that hour and why he had a
missed call from him on his phone. He found out the reasons quickly enough.

None of us knows how we will react in extraordinary circumstances, but it was
clear that Chris Broad, the ICC match referee in Lahore, in shielding Ahsan
Raza, the fourth umpire, from further gunfire, had behaved heroically. Not that
this was a time for talking about heroics.

Half a world away from the West Indies, Thilan Samaraweera, at 32 some ten years
older than Broad Jr, was also disorientated, but only because his body was full
of drugs. He had just scored 231 in Karachi and 214 in Lahore - only the sixth
batsman in Test history to achieve consecutive double hundreds - and was looking
forward, no doubt, to the felicitations in Colombo on his return. Instead, he
spent yesterday in hospital, heavily sedated with shrapnel in his leg.

He was not the only one with shrapnel wounds: the captain, Mahela Jayawardena,
the mildest and most pleasant of men, who has already experienced his share of
tragedy when he lost his brother to a brain tumour at 16, had fragments removed
from his shoulder, Tharanga Paranavitana, the opening batsman, some from his
chest and Ajantha Mendis, the mystery spinner, shrapnel from his neck and scalp.

As a sports writer, you do not expect to be using the words mystery spinner and
shrapnel in the same sentence, but, as the horrendous attack on the Sri Lanka
team in Lahore demonstrated yesterday, things have changed. I was one of those
who argued consistently that cricketers should go and play in the sub-continent,
that England should go and play in India after the Mumbai bombings and, yes,
even go and play in Pakistan. Clearly, I was wrong - at least about Pakistan.

Most of us who have played in the sub-continent, who have witnessed the almost
religious passion for the sport there, could not envisage a scenario in which
cricket and cricketers would be targeted. It is difficult enough to bracket
terrorism and sport together in any case, the aim of the first being to end
life, the second to celebrate it. The act of killing is contrary to the very
idea of sport and so even though a sportsman's life is no more valuable than any
other, the fact that these attacks were aimed directly at sport makes the idea
somehow even more shocking.

Occasionally, cricketers have found themselves caught up in events in the
sub-continent, but only in the sense that they were in the wrong place at the
wrong time. In 2002, the New Zealand team were staying in the

Sheraton hotel in Karachi when a bomb went off on a nearby bus, killing 14
people. More recently, the England team's kit - but thankfully not the players -
was in the Taj Mahal Palace hotel in Mumbai when the terrorists struck last
November.

This, though, is the first direct attack on cricket. It is also a direct attack
on Pakistan. By targeting something that is so dear to the hearts of most
Pakistanis, the one thing that allowed Pakistan normal engagement with the West,
this attack has ensured further isolation there. Certainly cricket isolation,
which will be the sad but inevitable result. It is no longer safe to play in
Pakistan.

There will be no international cricket played there for the foreseeable future.
New Zealand were due to go in November and December, England for a four-Test
series in February 2010..

The entire cricketing community was due there in 2011, Pakistan being co-hosts
of the World Cup along with Sri Lanka, India and Bangladesh.

Yesterday it was too soon, and inappropriate, for governing bodies to make
immediate decisions, but none of these events will take place. Of the leading
Test-playing nations, Sri Lanka was Pakistan's last ally, the only country
prepared to play there.

Cricket did not wither and die in South Africa during the years of isolation and
it is unlikely that it will do so in Pakistan during the exile that will
inevitably follow. Anybody who has witnessed the passion of street cricket and
tape-ball cricket in urban Pakistan would understand that.

Pakistan will continue to play abroad and play home games in Abu Dhabi or Dubai.
They may play neutral games in England, as Giles Clarke, the chairman of the
ECB, has suggested. These matches will be seen in Pakistan and new heroes will
be created, so the aspirations of urban cricketers in Islamabad, Lahore and
Karachi will not be completely deflated.

The great fear for cricket, though, is that this new phase of terrorism will
spread throughout the sub-continent..

India is the financial and political powerhouse of world cricket and yesterday
Lalit Modi, the commissioner of the Indian Premier League (IPL), was quick to
offer reassurances that the tournament will go ahead.

The dates may be shifted, though, partly because of the need to beef up security
and partly because of the elections in India, due to start at the same time as
the IPL in mid-April, which will overload the security forces. This shift may
affect the England players' participation.

How can decisions be made by players now on where they should play? How is India
safer than Pakistan? And what about war-torn Sri Lanka? It is a deeply
unsatisfactory answer, but it must be a matter of degree and based on advice
given by security personnel.

There is always an element of risk in any walk of life. Where possible, the show
must go on.

From a cricket perspective, the increased involvement of security will be the
greatest sadness of yesterday's events.

Many of us scoffed in India before Christmas when the England team travelled
around in a motorcade in the style of a tin-pot Third World dictator, sirens
blaring, outriders shooing pedestrians, cyclists and cars out of the way. Was it
really necessary?

Sadly it seems as if it was. Events have proven Reg Dickason, the ECB security
adviser, right. In Barbados yesterday he said: "The notion of sporting teams
being a protected species was held by many but it was not a view we shared."
Cricket and cricketers are no longer a protected species and although events in
Lahore seemed a world away from the England and West Indies teams who were en
route to Trinidad, yesterday's events affected them all.

Broad, of course, was relieved that his father was unhurt and, no doubt, a
little proud, too. Owais Shah's thoughts turned to Lahore and Karachi, where
many members of his family live. The thoughts of Aleem Dar, the Pakistani umpire
who stood in the fourth Test, were with Raza, a friend and club team-mate.

Others, inevitably, began to think about how their possible IPL involvement
would be affected and whether they would have to make difficult decisions about
whether to travel. The mood was subdued..

Debatable dates

Tours to Pakistan Dec 2009-Jan 2010 New Zealand (three Tests and five one-day
internationals) Feb-March 2010 England (four Tests, five ODIs) Sept 2010
Bangladesh (two Tests, three ODIs)

Oct-Nov 2010 South Africa (three Tests, five ODIs) Oct-Nov 2011 Sri Lanka (three
Tests, five ODIs) Tours to India

Oct 2009 Australia (seven ODIs) Nov-Dec 2009 Sri Lanka (three Tests, five ODIs)
Feb-March 2010 South Africa (three Tests, five ODIs)

Oct 2010 Australia (seven ODIs) Nov-Dec 2010 New Zealand (three Tests, five
ODIs) Oct 2011 England (five ODIs) Nov-Dec 2011 West Indies (three Tests, five
ODIs)

Tours to Sri Lanka July-Aug 2009 Pakistan (three Tests, five ODIs) Aug-Sept 2009
New Zealand (three Tests, five ODIs)

July 2010 Triangular one-day series involving Sri Lanka, India and New Zealand
Nov-Dec 2010 West Indies (three Tests, five ODIs) Aug-Sept 2011 Australia (three
Tests, five ODIs)

The World Cup is due to be held in all three countries, plus Bangladesh, in
February and March 2011

'Isolation for Pakistan will be the sad but inevitable result'

LOAD-DATE: March 4, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Ready to take flight: the Sri Lanka team board a helicopter at the
Gaddafi Stadium in Lahore after the attack that left eight people dead yesterday

MOHSIN RAZA / REUTERS

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: TIM


                    Copyright 2009 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              422 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                               The Times (London)

                            March 4, 2009 Wednesday
                                   Edition 1

Sport in line of fire as terrorists switch tactics;
killed in attack on cricket team Doubt cast on future of major events

BYLINE: Jeremy Page

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 440 words


Security arrangements at all major sporting events have been cast into doubt
after Islamist extremists adopted deadly new terror tactics by attacking
international sportsmen.

A dozen gunmen remained at large after opening fire in Lahore on the Sri Lanka
cricket team, who were on their way to play Pakistan.

The convoy was attacked with rifles, grenades and rocket launchers yesterday
morning as it approached the Gaddafi Stadium for the third day of the second
Test.

Seven members of the Sri Lanka squad - six players and a British assistant coach
- were injured. Eight Pakistanis were killed, including one of the drivers and
six police officers assigned to protect the team.

Rehman Malik, head of the Pakistani Interior Ministry, said that the nation was
in a state of war and vowed to "flush out all these terrorists from this
country".

The attack exposed the Pakistani Government's chronic inability to contain the
Islamic militants who control a large swath of territory near the border with
Afghanistan.

It also cast severe doubts on Pakistan's future as a venue for international
events. It is due to share the hosting of the 2011 cricket World Cup with India,
Bangladesh and Sri Lanka.

No one has claimed responsibility for the attack, but Pakistani officials said
that it bore the hallmarks of Lashkar-e-Taiba (LeT), the Pakistani militant
group blamed for the attack on Mumbai in November.

That has raised fears among Western security officials that LeT and its allies
may be shifting their tactics from suicide bombings towards commandstyle attacks
by trained, heavily armed gunmen in crowded urban areas.

Large events such as the 2011 cricket World Cup and 2012 London Olympics could
be prime targets.

Barack Obama expressed his deep concern over the attack as he met Gordon Brown
and said that he would unveil a new US strategy on Pakistan and Afghanistan
before next month's Nato summit. "The safe havens for al-Qaeda remain in the
frontier regions of Pakistan," he said.

President Rajapaksa of Sri Lanka said that the assault was a "cowardly terrorist
attack" and chartered a plane to fly the team home. President Zardari of
Pakistan ordered an inquiry over the attack and extended his regrets to Sri
Lanka.

The Pakistan Cricket Board said that the attack was beyond its control, despite
criticism from Imran Khan, the former Pakistan cricket captain, of the security
arrangements.

Cricket officials said that the attack would change the sport's landscape
irrevocably. David Morgan, the president of the International Cricket Council,
said: "Things will have to change dramatically in Pakistan if any of the games
are to be staged there."

LOAD-DATE: March 4, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: The banned group Lashkar-e-Taiba was blamed for yesterday's brazen
assault. The Pakistani Interior Minister said that his country was in a state of
war
ARIF ALI/AFP/GETTY IMAGES

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: TIM


                    Copyright 2009 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              423 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring South Asia - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                             March 5, 2009 Thursday

Four "terrorists" involved in Lahore attack arrested - Pakistan paper

LENGTH: 324 words


Text of report by The Nation correspondent Asif Chaudhry headlined "Four
attackers arrested" published by Pakistani newspaper The Nation website on 5
March

Lahore-In a major breakthrough, the law enforcement agencies succeeded in
arresting 11 terrorists including three Nigerians, three Uzbeks and an Afghan
from different parts of the country in connection with the deadly attack on Sri
Lankan cricket team, The Nation has reliably learnt.

Out of these, the sources said, four terrorists were those who had taken part in
the fatal attack on bus carrying Lankan players at Liberty Chowk while the
others were the members of the terrorists network.

The govt has constituted a joint team of law enforcement agencies-'Track 3'.

The terrorists were imparted training by Indian Agency RAW at the Indian
Consulate in Afghanistan, sources told The Nation.

The terrorists were provided highly sophisticated and deadly weapons in large
quantity by RAW though its agents in Pakistan. Similarly, a notorious criminal
imprisoned in the Kot Lakhpat Jail for the last seven months also helped the
terrorists in providing weapons for attack on Sri Lankan players.

The sources revealed that three Nigerian terrorists were arrested from a rented
house in Lahore while four terrorists were arrested from Quetta when law
enforcement agencies on the information of arrested terrorists conducted raid
and nabbed three Uzbeks. The officials also took into custody another terrorist
who was living with his cover name Abdul Rahman from Quetta.

The arrested persons further provided important information about their
accomplices and consequently the security agencies arrested two others namely
Mudassar and Muhammad Aslam from the Cantt area of Karachi.

The sources revealed that Aslam has visited neighbouring country India three
times during last seven months. He had close relations with the Indian secret
agencies.

Source: The Nation website, Islamabad, in English 05 Mar 09

LOAD-DATE: March 5, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2009 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              424 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                       BBC Monitoring Europe - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                             March 5, 2009 Thursday

Half of Czechs fear terrorist attacks - poll

LENGTH: 168 words


Text of report in English by Czech national public-service news agency CTK

Prague, 5 March: A half of Czechs fears terrorist attacks on the country, though
most citizens assess the international situation positively, according to a poll
conducted by the STEM polling agency in February and released to CTK today.

Moreover, 49 per cent respondents share the view that Russia might threaten the
Czech Republic in the future.

Compared to a poll in 2001, the share of respondents who are afraid of terrorist
attacks has declined by 23 per cent to the current 52 per cent.

On the contrary, the fears of Russia have been rising.

In 2001, 40 per cent of Czechs considered Russia a threat.

According to STEM, Czechs felt more threatened at the beginning of the
millennium due to the tense international situation connected with the September
2001 terrorist attacks on the United States.

Since then Czechs' fears have been gradually mitigated, the STEM polls show.

Source: CTK news agency, Prague, in English 1330 gmt 5 Mar 09

LOAD-DATE: March 5, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2009 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              425 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                BreakingNews.ie

                      March 5, 2009 Thursday 07:08 AM GMT

World seeks answers regarding Pakistan terror attack

SECTION: WORLD NEWS

LENGTH: 845 words


Pakistan was facing probing questions from world sports chiefs and the media
today over how the terrorists who ambushed the Sri Lankan cricket team could
attack such a high-profile target, then escape unscathed.

Former England Test cricketer-turned referee Chris Broad, who was caught up in
Tuesday's attack, said police abandoned him like a "sitting duck" and video
showed the gunmen sauntering down a deserted side street, apparently leaving
with no fear of pursuit.

But several Pakistani officials rejected Mr Broad's claim, stressing that six
policemen guarding the convoy were killed when it was attacked by up to 14
heavily-armed men near a stadium in the heart of Lahore.

One official, however, admitted to a local news channel that there had been
security lapses, including a lack of police reinforcements.

The government had pledged to give the Sri Lankan players and match officials
the same level of protection afforded a head of state, so the incident triggered
questions about Pakistan's ability to prevent terrorist attacks.

"It is a source of embarrassment at the international level," Ahsan Iqbal, an
opposition MP, said. "This government should be ashamed and make those
responsible for criminal negligence in their duties accountable."

The lapse was all the more shocking because Pakistan knew any incident would
end, perhaps for years, its hopes of regularly hosting international sporting
events.

Even before Tuesday's ambush, most teams chose not to visit this
cricket-obsessed country because of rising violence by Islamic extremists.

Police chiefs gave conflicting accounts of the investigation. One said several
suspects had been taken into custody in connection with the attack, but hours
later, another denied anyone had been detained or even questioned.

Islamic militants were widely suspected of carrying out the attack. Pakistan has
a web of extremist networks, some with links to al Qaida and the Taliban, that
have attacked foreigners in a bid to destabilise the government and punish it
for supporting the US-led invasion of Afghanistan.

Mr Broad was in a van in the same convoy as the Sri Lankan team bus when the
attackers opened fire with automatic weapons, grenades and at least one rocket
launcher, killing his driver and critically wounding a fellow official.

"There was not a sign of a policeman anywhere," Mr Broad said yesterday after
flying back to Britain. "They had clearly left the scene and left us to be
sitting ducks."

Other witnesses described police trading fire with the gunmen for about 15
minutes, but at least one of the Sri Lankan players said the attackers appeared
to fire at will at the bus.

"They were not under pressure ... nobody was firing at them," team captain
Mahela Jayawardene said after returning to Sri Lanka.

Seven players and an assistant coach on the bus were wounded, though none
suffered life-threatening injuries.

Players said their bus stopped for around 90 seconds while under attack, before
the driver stepped on the gas and drove them to the safety of the stadium.

Mr Broad and the players said Pakistani officials had promised to give them
"presidential style" security as part of efforts to convince them to make the
trip.

"I am extremely angry we were promised high-level security and in our hour of
need that security vanished and we were left just open to anything," he said.

But Pakistan Cricket Board chief Ijaz Butt said: "How can Chris Broad say this
when six policemen were killed?" He refused to comment further, saying he wanted
to speak to Mr Broad first.

Pressed by local media, Lahore commissioner Khusro Pervez admitted "very vivid
and very clear" security lapses.

"The gunmen were meant to be combated by back-up police support which didn't
arrive," Dawn newspaper quoted him as saying to a news show owned by the same
media company.

"All convoys are provided outer cordons, but in this case the outer cordon did
not respond or it was not enough. The vehicles used for escorting the Sri Lankan
convoy were not adequate."

The convoy transporting the Sri Lankan team and cricket officials was surrounded
by police vehicles at the front, rear and side, and took the same route each day
of the five-day test match against Pakistan's national team, authorities said.
It was not clear how many police officers were in the convoy.

Back home, Sri Lankan players recounted their ordeal.

"We were just hearing bullet after bullet thump into the bus. We were hearing
gunshots, a few explosions and you could see bullets sometimes hitting a seat,"
Kumar Sangakkara said.

The surveillance video, broadcast on Pakistani television, showed several
attackers apparently escaping down a side street on motorcycles while
brandishing weapons. Three were shown walking along the middle of the street,
apparently in no fear that they were being chased by police.

None of the gunmen was killed, and all apparently escaped.

The assault bore similarities to November's three-day terrorist rampage in the
Indian financial capital of Mumbai, in which 10 gunmen targeted hotels, a Jewish
centre and other sites, killing 164 people.

LOAD-DATE: March 5, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication


                    Copyright 2009 Thomas Crosbie Media Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              426 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                                The Bristol Post

                             March 5, 2009 Thursday

Chris broad's anger at Pakistani police;
Chris Broad, who became a reluctant hero when he shielded a fellow cricket
official during a terrorist attack, has told how security officials ran for
cover during the ambush instead of protecting players.

BYLINE: Chris Allen c.allen

SECTION: Pg. 4

LENGTH: 657 words


Former England player  Broad, from Bristol, was one of the test match referees
and was in a van with other officials which was targeted along with the Sri
Lanka team bus on their way to the Gaddafi Stadium  in Lahore on Tuesday.

Speaking on his return to the UK, Mr Broad, 51, said he was "extremely angry"
that security had vanished when it was most needed.

He told how he had raised concerns with the ICC ahead of the tour and was
assured he and the teams would be afforded "presidential-style" security.

He said: "We were promised high-level security and in our hour of need that
security vanished.

"I am extremely fortunate to be here today."

The former opening batsman for  England and Gloucestershire, has previously told
how the bus he was travelling in was hit with bullets for up to 10 minutes.

The driver was killed instantly and Broad was hailed a hero after he shielded
wounded Pakistani umpire Ahsan Raza on the floor of the van after at least a
dozen armed terrorists opened fire ahead of the third day of the Second Test.

Six policemen and a civilian died in the attack. A number of Sri Lanka players,
travelling in another vehicle, were also injured.

Mr Broad, who was born in Knowle and went to Colston's School told a press
conference on Wednesday  at Manchester Airport: "I had an inkling before the
test match leg of the tour that something might happen.

"I raised my concerns with the ICC before the tour started and they passed on
those concerns to the Pakistan Cricket Board and they assured me through email
that all security would be taken care of, presidential-style security.

"Clearly that didn't happen."

Speaking about the attack, he added: "When we were in the van we weren't aware
of what was going on outside.

"But afterwards when you watch the TV pictures you can clearly see the white van
we were in, in the middle of a roundabout and not a sign of a policeman
anywhere. A policeman opened the front door and took the driver out
unceremoniously and dumped him on the floor and drove us to the ground.

"At every junction from the hotel to where we were attacked there were police in
uniforms with handguns controlling the traffic.

"How did the terrorists come up to the roundabout and start firing and these
guys did nothing?

"There were plenty of police there but these terrorists came in, did what they
wanted to do and then got out of there."

He added: "Imran Khan (former Pakistan cricketer and politician) said on
television he was embarrassed at the level of security. He would not accept it
and we should not have had to accept it."

Mr Broad said he first became aware they were under siege when he saw the Sri
Lanka team bus come to a halt along with their vehicle and then heard "popping
sounds".

He said it was umpire Raza who first shouted at everyone to get down.

"I'm not a hero. Ahsan Raza took a bullet to the stomach or chest - somewhere in
the spleen and lung region. I was lying behind him on the floor of the van and
there were bullets flying all around us.

"I only noticed he was injured when I saw a large pool of blood had spilled on
to the floor and out of the partially opened van door.

"He's just an umpire who loves the game."

Mr Broad said he felt sadness for those injured and killed in the atrocity,
particularly the driver.

He said: "He was one of the loveliest men you could ever wish to see. Always had
a smile on his face. He was just doing his job, driving to the cricket ground."

"I feel sorry for his family. I send my best wishes."

Mr Broad added  international cricket was unlikely to ever be the same in the
wake of the incident.

He said: "I think this has shocked the world of cricket. I hope this has made
people sit up and think.

"I don't know what the future holds for Pakistan cricket. They have a lot of
very talented cricketers, and I feel sorry for the cricketers and for the
cricket-mad public of Pakistan.

"But this is a death knell for cricket in Pakistan and I feel sorry for those
people."

LOAD-DATE: June 11, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: 25


                      Copyright 2009 Bristol United Press
                              All Rights Reserved

                              427 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                                The Bristol Post

                             March 5, 2009 Thursday

Chris broad's anger at Pakistani police;
Chris Broad, who became a reluctant hero when he shielded a fellow cricket
official during a terrorist attack, has told how security officials ran for
cover during the ambush instead of protecting players.

BYLINE: Chris Allen c.allen

SECTION: Pg. 4

LENGTH: 657 words


Former England player  Broad, from Bristol, was one of the test match referees
and was in a van with other officials which was targeted along with the Sri
Lanka team bus on their way to the Gaddafi Stadium  in Lahore on Tuesday.

Speaking on his return to the UK, Mr Broad, 51, said he was "extremely angry"
that security had vanished when it was most needed.

He told how he had raised concerns with the ICC ahead of the tour and was
assured he and the teams would be afforded "presidential-style" security.

He said: "We were promised high-level security and in our hour of need that
security vanished.

"I am extremely fortunate to be here today."

The former opening batsman for  England and Gloucestershire, has previously told
how the bus he was travelling in was hit with bullets for up to 10 minutes.

The driver was killed instantly and Broad was hailed a hero after he shielded
wounded Pakistani umpire Ahsan Raza on the floor of the van after at least a
dozen armed terrorists opened fire ahead of the third day of the Second Test.

Six policemen and a civilian died in the attack. A number of Sri Lanka players,
travelling in another vehicle, were also injured.

Mr Broad, who was born in Knowle and went to Colston's School told a press
conference on Wednesday  at Manchester Airport: "I had an inkling before the
test match leg of the tour that something might happen.

"I raised my concerns with the ICC before the tour started and they passed on
those concerns to the Pakistan Cricket Board and they assured me through email
that all security would be taken care of, presidential-style security.

"Clearly that didn't happen."

Speaking about the attack, he added: "When we were in the van we weren't aware
of what was going on outside.

"But afterwards when you watch the TV pictures you can clearly see the white van
we were in, in the middle of a roundabout and not a sign of a policeman
anywhere. A policeman opened the front door and took the driver out
unceremoniously and dumped him on the floor and drove us to the ground.

"At every junction from the hotel to where we were attacked there were police in
uniforms with handguns controlling the traffic.

"How did the terrorists come up to the roundabout and start firing and these
guys did nothing?

"There were plenty of police there but these terrorists came in, did what they
wanted to do and then got out of there."

He added: "Imran Khan (former Pakistan cricketer and politician) said on
television he was embarrassed at the level of security. He would not accept it
and we should not have had to accept it."

Mr Broad said he first became aware they were under siege when he saw the Sri
Lanka team bus come to a halt along with their vehicle and then heard "popping
sounds".

He said it was umpire Raza who first shouted at everyone to get down.

"I'm not a hero. Ahsan Raza took a bullet to the stomach or chest - somewhere in
the spleen and lung region. I was lying behind him on the floor of the van and
there were bullets flying all around us.

"I only noticed he was injured when I saw a large pool of blood had spilled on
to the floor and out of the partially opened van door.

"He's just an umpire who loves the game."

Mr Broad said he felt sadness for those injured and killed in the atrocity,
particularly the driver.

He said: "He was one of the loveliest men you could ever wish to see. Always had
a smile on his face. He was just doing his job, driving to the cricket ground."

"I feel sorry for his family. I send my best wishes."

Mr Broad added  international cricket was unlikely to ever be the same in the
wake of the incident.

He said: "I think this has shocked the world of cricket. I hope this has made
people sit up and think.

"I don't know what the future holds for Pakistan cricket. They have a lot of
very talented cricketers, and I feel sorry for the cricketers and for the
cricket-mad public of Pakistan.

"But this is a death knell for cricket in Pakistan and I feel sorry for those
people."

LOAD-DATE: March 6, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: 25


                      Copyright 2009 Bristol United Press
                              All Rights Reserved

                              428 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                               East Kent Mercury

                                 March 5, 2009

Cricket coach hurt in terrorist attack

LENGTH: 284 words


by Kevin Redsull

kredsull@thekmgroup.co.uk

FORMER Kent cricketer Paul Farbrace, who comes from Ash, has been injured in an
attack on the Sri Lanka cricket team in Pakistan.

The 41-year-old ex-wicketkeeper and academy director, whose brother Colin lives
in Woodnesborough, was one of six people hurt after gunmen opened fire on the
team coach close to the Gaddafi Stadium in Lahore.

Mr Farbrace, Sri Lanka's assistant coach, suffered a shrapnel wound to his right
arm and was detained in hospital for treatment.

He said: "There were lots of loud bangs, and then it became apparent it was
gunfire and explosions. There were shouts to hit the floor and that is
eventually what we all managed to do."

His brother Colin said: "Paul rang me this morning to say he had an arm injury
but otherwise he was OK.

"We only had time for a very brief conversation because he was being taken to a
military base where he and the rest of the squad were going to be flown back to
Colombo."

Kent County Cricket Club manager Simon Willis added: "I spoke to Paul earlier
this morning and he described it as a very terrifying experience, and he is very
shaken and shocked." Five players, including star batsman Thilan Samaraweera,
are also thought to have been injured in the attack. Six police officers and the
driver of a coach carrying match officials were killed.

A Pakistani umpire is also reported to have been seriously hurt. Four years ago
Mr Farbrace opened the clubhouse extension of Ash Cricket and Rugby Club,
telling tales of batting for the village side in his youth.

He was appointed Sri Lanka's assistant coach in July 2007 and has also coached
the England Women and Under-19 squads. He lives at Harrietsham, near Maidstone.

LOAD-DATE: March 5, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2009 KM Media Group Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                              429 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                                Hartlepool Mail

                             March 5, 2009 Thursday

Broad in turmoil after terror attacks

LENGTH: 168 words


CHRIS Broad will consider seeking counselling to overcome the frightening
experience of being caught in the crossfire of the terrorist attack in Lahore.


The 51-year-old former England batsman arrived back home yesterday having
survived a terrifying ordeal when the Sri Lanka team bus was attacked on its way
to the Gaddafi Stadium for the second day of the third Test.Broad and umpires
Simon Taufel and Steve Davis emerged unscathed from the incident, but six
policemen were killed, local umpire Ahsan Raza suffered a bullet wound to his
stomach while seven Sri Lankan players and assistant coach Paul Farbrace also
suffered injuries.It has left Broad mentally scarred from his experience and
unable to sleep despite taking nearly 30 hours on his journey from Lahore to
Manchester yesterday."I haven't slept since the incident and I find it difficult
to sleep at the moment because there are all sorts of images going through my
mind and it's something I'm going to have to come to terms with," admitted
Broad.

LOAD-DATE: April 23, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: HMJJ


                       Copyright 2009 Johnston Press Plc
                              All Rights Reserved

                              430 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                      ITN

                             March 5, 2009 Thursday

Digger 'terror attack' in Jerusalem

LENGTH: 255  words


The driver of a digger crushed a police car and attacked other vehicles on a
busy Jerusalem road before being shot dead by police.

The driver of a digger crushed a police car and crashed into other vehicles on a
busy Jerusalem road before being shot dead by police and a taxi driver.

The open Koran in the driver's cabin but the man was not carrying any
identification, police said.

Israel's Army Radio identified the driver as a Palestinian.

Police spokesman Micky Rosenfeld said: "It seems to be a terrorist attack from
the evidence we have at the moment."

The incident came one day after a visit by US Secretary of State Hillary
Clinton.

Police compared the attack to three similar incidents last year, two with
bulldozers and one with a BMW car.

In the 2008 incidents, which police also called terrorist attacks, the drivers
were identified as Palestinians from Arab East Jerusalem.

Mr Rosenfeld said police have stepped up security across Jerusalem. The incident
took place on a major road that cuts across Jerusalem.

Police and witnesses at the scene said the driver of the digger first turned
over a police car and then tried to hit a passing bus. Panicking passengers
asked the bus driver to stop the vehicle to let them out, a witness said.

One of the bystanders said: "At that point, two people - a policeman and a
civilian - approached the tractor and, from the ground, shot the driver."

The civilian who shot at the driver was identified by witnesses as a taxi
driver.

Israeli health officials said the digger driver died at hospital.

LOAD-DATE: May 5, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: 260


              Copyright 2009 Independent Television News Limited.
              Provided by Syndigate.info, an Albawaba.com company
                              All Rights Reserved

                              431 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                Kentish Gazette

                                 March 5, 2009

Ex-cricketer's gun attack terror

LENGTH: 175 words


A FORMER Kent cricketer has spoken of the terrifying moment when he was caught
in the middle of a gun attack.

Paul Farbrace from Harrietsham, who is the Sri Lankan cricket team assistant
coach, was travelling with the players to a game at the Gaddafi Stadium in
Lahore on Tuesday. As the team's coach approached the stadium gunman opened
fire, killing six policemen and a driver and injuring eight of the team
including 41-year-old Mr Farbrace.

He said: "There were suddenly shouts of get down, get down and explosions
started going off."

Farbrace suffered a shrapnel wound to his arm and was treated  in hospital.

He added: "The two lads next to me suffered as well. One had a wound to the
chest and the other to his back and back of the head. I think we were all very
lucky to get off in one piece.

Mr Farbrace originally comes from Ash, near Canterbury.

On Tuesday, Mr Farbrace's brother Colin, who lives near Sandwich, said that his
brother has been taken to a military base from where he and the rest of the
squad were going to be flown back to Colombo.

LOAD-DATE: March 5, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2009 KM Media Group Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                              432 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                              Liverpool Daily Echo

                             March 5, 2009 Thursday
                                  2ND Edition

Cricket: Broad in turmoil after terrorist attacks in Lahore

SECTION: SPORT; Pg. 57

LENGTH: 408 words


CHRIS BROAD will consider seeking counselling to overcome the frightening
experience of being caught in the crossfire of the terrorist attack in Lahore.

The 51-year-old former England batsman arrived back home yesterday having
survived a terrifying ordeal when the Sri Lanka team bus was attacked on its way
to the Gaddafi Stadium for the second day of the third Test.

Broad and umpires Simon Taufel and Steve Davis emerged unscathed from the
incident, but six policemen were killed, local umpire Ahsan Raza suffered a
bullet wound to his stomach while seven Sri Lankan players and assistant coach
Paul Farbrace also suffered injuries.

It has left Broad mentally scarred from his experience and unable to sleep
despite taking nearly 30 hours on his journey from Lahore to Manchester
yesterday.

"I haven't slept since the incident and I find it difficult to sleep at the
moment because there are all sorts of images going through my mind and it's
something I'm going to have to come to terms with," admitted Broad.

"My next appointment is due in the first week of April so I have a little bit of
time at home to be able to work out what happens from here.

"The ICC have been very supportive in getting us out of Pakistan as soon as
possible and getting us all home as soon as possible and I imagine that support
will continue and there will be a lot of discussions over the next two or three
days."

That support process will include counselling if Broad believes it is required
after several weeks off with his wife Michelle at his Nottinghamshire home
before he reports for duty again in Johannesburg for World Cup qualifiers among
Associate nations at the start of April.

The ICC, who have asked all the match officials to write a report on the events
in Lahore, have already agreed to arrange for any support they need as they
attempt to overcome the events of the last few days.

Broad said: "The ICC have been very good and have said that if any of us need to
go and speak to someone about it to get things out in the open then, of course,
they will look after us.

"As soon as I got on the plane I actually started writing things down just to
get it out.

"You can talk to other people but it doesn't really feel as if you've got your
feelings out and in full view so I just started writing what happened down on a
piece of paper.

"I'm sure other things will crop up over the next 24 to 48 hours and I might
have to write those down."

LOAD-DATE: March 6, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


               Copyright 2009 The Liverpool Daily Post & Echo Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                              433 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                                   Metro (UK)

                             March 5, 2009 Thursday
                                 Dublin Edition

WERE CRICKET POLICE IN ON TERROR ATTACK PLAN?

BYLINE: MILES ERWIN

SECTION: Pg. 10

LENGTH: 398 words


TERRORIST attack victim Chris Broad yesterday suggested that Pakistani security
forces may have been involved in a conspiracy over the deadly attack in Lahore.

The former England cricketer the referee of the abandoned test match said his
suspicions were raised after the Pakistan cricket team coach left some time
after their Sri Lankan opponents.

Mr Broad, 51, questioned why the Pakistan team bus did not join the convoy, as
usual. You start to think, Did someone know something and hold it back?, he said
on his return to Manchester airport, in the UK.

He said he felt extremely angry police left them at the mercy of the attackers.

We were promised high-level security and in our hour of need that security
vanished.

They had clearly gone, left the scene and left us to be sitting ducks. I am
extremely fortunate to be here today questions need to be asked, he said.

Six policeman and a bus driver were killed when gunmen attacked a convoy
carrying the Sri Lankan cricket team and officials to the Gaddafi Stadium on
Tuesday.

An umpire in Mr Broads bus was critically injured and seven players were hurt.
He said he had an inkling something might happen during the test series but had
been assured by the International Cricket Council that security would be tight.

The convoy was escorted by armed police but Mr Broad, 51, said they did little
to defend them during the 30-minute attack. In the TV pictures, you can clearly
see the white van we were in, in the middle of a roundabout and not a sign of a
policeman anywhere, he said.

The government and Pakistan Cricket Board denied the claims, saying the convoy
had been surrounded by police.

Meanwhile, Police Chief Haji Habibur Rehman said officers raided locations in
the city and surrounding districts and arrested some suspects. He gave no
details of their alleged roles, or the precise number detained, but said some
were picked up at a Lahore hostel, where bloodstained clothes were also found.

He added: So far we have not made any headway toward the perpetrators. Later,
Salah ud Din Niazi, the officer in charge of the investigation, said no arrests
had been made and no one had been questioned.

None of the gunmen was killed, and all apparently escaped after the gunfight.The
assault bore many similarities to Novembers attack in Mumbai, and one group
likely to fall under suspicion is Lashkar-e-Taiba, the network blamed for the
attacks.

LOAD-DATE: March 5, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Chris Broad reflects on his ordealPicture: Action Images The Anti
Terrorist Front decry the attack

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2009 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              434 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                                   The Mirror

                             March 5, 2009 Thursday
                                  Eire Edition

SHANE KNOCKED INTO TRAFFIC AS PIT BULL SAVAGES PET DOG SCOOBY;
MUM TELLS OF STREET ATTACK TERROR

BYLINE: BY SIOBHAN HOLLIMAN

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 340 words


A TODDLER had a narrow escape after he was tossed onto a main road as a pit bull
terrier savagely attacked his pet dog.

His mum told yesterday how she was out for a walk with her two-year-old son
Shane and their little Yorkshire terrier Scooby when horror struck.

Michelle Reilly, from Ashfield in Drogheda, Co Louth, said: "Shane was strapped
into the buggy and Scooby's lead was attached to the buggy.

"I just saw the pit bull coming straight towards us. It was terrifying.

"At first I thought he was going for Shane in the buggy but then he charged at
Scooby.

"The force of the attack was so great that he knocked the buggy out onto the
road with Shane in it.

"He had Scooby by the neck, the blood was pouring out of him, it was absolutely
petrifying. I was trying to get the pit bull away and get Shane off the road."

Michelle told the Irish Daily Mirror how two brave passers-by - a young teenager
called Eddie and a motorist named Christopher - came to her rescue during the
attack last Friday.

She added: "They were brilliant. Christopher managed to lift the pit bull up by
his tail and get him off Scooby.

"I am still very shook up over what happened as the pit bull just came out of
nowhere. We were just walking along the street in Mell in Drogheda.

"I thought he was going to go for myself and Shane as well. I haven't been out
for a walk since, I'm too afraid.

"Little Scooby is also in shock. He has eight bites on his body and lost a lot
of blood. We brought him straight to the vet to be treated and she was
absolutely horrified over what happened."

Michelle fears the ordeal has scarred her young son for life.

She added: "We were in my sister's the other day and when her dog came in he
started screaming, normally he plays with the dog, but this has really scared
him."

The pit bull which attacked Scooby was seized by Louth County Council and is
expected to be put down.

Michelle added: "Thank God people came on the scene and helped. It was a
terrible ordeal."

The blood was pouring from him...it was absolutely petrifying

MICHELLE REILLY

LOAD-DATE: March 5, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: SCARRED Wounds on Yorkshire terrier; TERROR Shane and Scooby after the
pit bull attack Pics: PAUL CONNOR

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                            Copyright 2009 MGN Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              435 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                            Nottingham Evening Post

                             March 5, 2009 Thursday

Chris broad relives the terror attack in pakistan

SECTION: Pg. 4

LENGTH: 1070 words


When cricket umpire Chris Broad left his West Bridgford home for Pakistan, he
had no idea he would return having witnessed killings and lucky to be alive. In
an exclusive interview, he told JO ROBERTS how it felt arriving back in
Nottingham after surviving a terror attack on cricket

EX-Notts cricket star Chris Broad has revealed what reeled through his mind as
he lay on the floor of a van comforting a badly-wounded colleague while bullets
tore all around.

Was it his family, or his life flashing before his eyes?

"To be perfectly honest, no - it was 'how am I going to get out of here?' It was
very difficult to think of anything other than lots of bullets flying all over
the place," said the 51-year-old match referee from West Bridgford, speaking to
the Post on his return from Pakistan where terrorists opened fire on Sri Lankan
players and umpires travelling to the Test Match in Lahore on Tuesday.

Once it became clear he'd survived the attack which claimed the life of his
driver and saw another umpire in the van critically wounded, Mr Broad's mind
rushed straight to his family; wife Miche, England cricketer son Stuart, and
daughter Gemma.

"Once we got to a position of safety, clearly we thought about people back home
and were able to make contact. I spoke to Miche within the hour."

Mr Broad said he knew she was unaware what had happened, because it was still
the middle of the night in England and hadn't reached the news.

"It takes a while for that sort of thing to hit the airwaves and get around the
world. It was 4am back here in the UK at the time," he said. "When I spoke to
Miche and my kids about it they were surprised and obviously mortified.

"I managed to speak to both my daughter Gemma, who is in Australia with the
women's World Cup, and to Stuart, who is out in the West Indies. I reassured
them that all was okay. They felt very protective, they were horrified and
couldn't really believe what I was telling them."

Despite this, Mr Broad said the calls weren't highly emotional because he was in
a state of shock.

"It was all quite factual really. I wasn't quite sure what was happening," he
said. "I think adrenaline had taken over and we were just relaying facts as to
what had happened. The emotion hasn't really come yet, but I'm sure it will.

"It takes a while to sink in. I'm sure  we'll mull over what happened."

The reunion with Miche yesterday was always going to be eagerly-anticipated
since the couple had been separated for two months due to conflicting work
commitments, but neither could have any idea just how urgent it would become.

"Miche wasn't at home when I left for this trip, she was actually in Australia
working on a golf tournament," Mr Broad explained. "She is occasionally involved
in some European tour events and happened to be at the Johnny Walker Classic in
Perth, so I haven't seen my wife for a good couple of months now."

Will spending time together be a priority in the coming days?

"Absolutely, and just getting back into as normal a routine as possible will be
the aim," he said.

Anger with the Pakistani security forces is understandably at the forefront of
the former England player's mind.

"Clearly there was a breakdown in our security over there. When you're talking
about people's lives, I believe those people have every right to feel angry
about it," he said.

"When you see the pictures of what was going on - and the terrorists that were
all around you, shooting towards your van -  clearly we were extremely lucky.
Some were not so lucky -  the driver was not lucky and neither was the fourth
umpire who is seriously ill in hospital. It was just a terrible situation."

Mr Broad said he flagged up his security concerns before the trip because of an
'inkling' that something could happen.

"But it certainly wasn't anything of this sort!" he said. "My concerns were that
the Oval Test Match result had been changed, the Champions' Trophy had been
taken away from Pakistan, I was an Englishman representing the International
Cricket Council (ICC); I just had a feeling that there might be some form of
demonstration  during the tour. But I was told that the security would be up to
presidential standards and it reassured me, but clearly it didn't happen."

In terms of what action he will take, Mr Broad said: "I will write a report to
the ICC senior managers and I'm sure they will discuss the situation. I've been
in touch with all the senior managers, it's their responsibility to take the
situation forward."

He said he remained confident his son, Stuart, was safe with the England team in
the West Indies, but had no idea how the trauma would affect his own willingness
to travel for the game.

"England have a security consultant who travels with them all the time - he
assesses the issues in the various countries that England go to - so I have no
concerns whatsoever over the security of the England cricket side and Stuart in
it."

Regarding himself, he said: "It's very difficult to answer that question at this
moment in time. I've only just arrived back into the country, I'm very glad to
be back, what the future holds remains to be seen. I don't know how I will react
once this all sinks in.

"My next appointment is not until early April so I've got three weeks here
anyway, and we will see what materialises.

"Counselling has been offered and I haven't really thought any more than that.
It's certainly a possibility because I've never experienced anything like this
before. I'll see."

To friends and fans locally, Mr Broad said: "I have had so many messages of
goodwill and support from friends around Nottingham and around the country, and
I'm overwhelmed by the support people are showing me. I'm very grateful.

"It was a traumatic experience that hasn't really sunk in yet, but I'm sure over
the next couple of days - when I have chance put my feet under the table and
have a cup of tea - things will start to sink in, but for the moment I'm just
very tired."

Nottingham's Pakistan Centre chairman Irshad Ahmed expressed his sympathy for
the victims of the gun attacks.

He said: "We at the Pakistan Centre condemn the actions of these terrorists and
our prayers go out to the victims of this attack and their families.

"We are extremely relieved to learn that local cricketing legend Chris Broad was
not injured.

"Our deepest condolences go out to the Pakistani policemen who died in the
attack while trying to protect the visiting Sri Lankan cricket team."

LOAD-DATE: August 21, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: 48


                     Copyright 2009 Nottingham Evening Post
                              All Rights Reserved

                              436 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                             Paisley Daily Express

                             March 5, 2009 Thursday
                                  1ST Edition

CHILD'S TERROR OVER SICK SCHOOL ATTACK;
Ex-boyfriend attacks mum's partner - then threatens to kill pair

BYLINE: ANDY NEWPORT

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 389 words


A FRANTIC mum told her eight-year-old son to "run to safety" when her former
boyfriend attacked her new lover outside the child's school.

Ned John Kerr, 26, punched Andrew Gardner as former partner Katie Montgomery -
whom he split with nine months ago - and their young child looked on in horror.

The incident happened on Ard Road, Renfrew, near to Kirklandneuk Primary, when
the couple went to collect the boy from school on November 12, last year.

Paisley Sheriff Court was told they spotted former heroin junkie Kerr outside
the school gates and decided to take a different route home to avoid a
confrontation.

But Kerr, of Glasgow, had already seen them and approached Ms Montgomery and Mr
Gardner, "raising his voice and swearing at them".

He then threatened the pair, saying: "I'm going to kill you."

At that point, the court heard, Kerr walked up behind Mr Gardner and threw a
punch which caught him on the back of the head.

Ms Montgomery then screamed at her child - described in court as being very
upset by this point - to run to safety.

Depute fiscal Frank Clarke, however, did add swiftly: "The Crown does not
believe that the child was in any danger."

He also said: "Mr Gardner did not suffer any injury other than soreness."

However, his solicitor told the court her client had only acted after the
complainer threw a punch at him, adding: "Mr Gardner had been quite aggressive
to him."

The lawyer also said Kerr acknowledges he should have left the scene before it
turned violent.

He said: "He is very remorseful this incident took place in front of his son."

Kerr, who has a lengthy list of previous convictions, has not been allowed
contact with the child since.

Sheriff Ruth Anderson spared Kerr, who had earlier admitted assaulting Mr
Gardner and a second charge of committing a breach of the peace by conducting
himself in a disorderly manner, shouting and uttering threats, placing the
couple in a state of fear and alarm, from jail - instead ordering him to carry
out 150 hours of community service work.

She told him: "You are getting nearer to the custody situation by the minute.

"You need to do something about that temper of yours and your drinking.

"It's time that you got yourself together.

"You are not making much of an example to your son by behaving like this right
in front of him."

LOAD-DATE: March 5, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                           Copyright 2009 MGN Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              437 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                               The Sun (England)

                             March 5, 2009 Thursday
                                   Edition 1

PIRATE ATTACK ON CRUISER TOURISTS;
TERROR IN GATES OF HELL Liner flees gun-toting Somalis in fast boats EXCLUSIVE

BYLINE: NEIL SYSON

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 25

LENGTH: 461 words


IT'S feared Irish citizens are among more than 1,000 tourists caught in a
terrifying pirate attack on their round-the-world cruise liner.

The giant ship was forced to zig-zag violently as Somali bandits armed with
rocket launchers threatened to clamber aboard.

One of the crew said shots were fired in four separate assaults in seas dubbed
the Gates of Hell off Somalia.

Terror struck when two small craft were spotted speeding at 20 knots towards the
43,000-ton Balmoral.

They appeared to circle round the liner as it sailed from Jordan to India.

Officers sent up distress flares to alert British and US warships on the lookout
for marauding Somalis.

Security men even fashioned gun-shaped weapons from pieces of wood in the hope
of deterring the attackers.

The 1,300 passengers were ordered to sit on floors below deck amid a state of
"code red". A US Navy ship escorted the Balmoral as it weaved its way through
the dangerous seas of the Gulf of Aden.

A crew member told in frantic calls and emails home to her boyfriend of shots
being fired.

She said the first attack came at 7am on Tuesday and at one point she saw
Somalis just 400 yards away.

She said: "People were all over the place and everyone was in tears. We could
hear shooting. It started following us and we had to call the US Navy. They are
still alongside.

"The security have made guns from wood - like that's going to help! "The tannoy
lady was so nervous she could not speak properly.

She was panicking and trying to say, 'It's all going to be fine'. Nobody was
buying that, though. I stood on the deck and watched through binoculars at men
in the fishing boat armed with AK-47 rifles and rocket launchers. They were
300-400 metres away.

"Last night a lot of the passengers - many are in their 70s and 80s - were in
tears and frightened to death." Some paid as much as '30,000 for a 104-night
adventure on the liner - run by Fred Olsen Cruise Lines.

The ship, which left Dover, England, on St Valentine's Day, was yesterday
steaming towards the safety of Salalah in Oman.

Executives at the Londonbased cruise firm Olsen said there was no panic amongst
passengers.

Aggressive

A spokeswoman said bandits attacked once, getting no nearer than fives miles,
and the "shots" were probably flares.

She said two "suspicious vessels" were spotted on radar at 19.45. She added:
"The Balmoral made some aggressive manouvering and an EU warship was contacted.
At 20.45 the warship confirmed the area was clear."

But a spokesman for the Atalanta Naval Force patrolling the Gulf of Aden said:
"The suspect vessels must have been close - hundreds of yards."

In the last nine months of 2008 there were 42 hijackings off Somalia with owners
paying '100million ransom money.

53341@the-sun.ie

' People were in tears as shots were fired '

LOAD-DATE: March 5, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Target ... Balmoral and Gulf of Aden map
Attack ... Somali bandits on Chinese ship last December

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: SUN


                    Copyright 2009 NEWS GROUP NEWSPAPERS LTD
                              All Rights Reserved

                              438 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                               The Sun (England)

                             March 5, 2009 Thursday
                                   Edition 1

Gunfire started and the police just vanished;
CRICKET TERROR ATTACK HERO BROAD&#x27;S OUTRAGE

BYLINE: BEN ASHFORD

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 31

LENGTH: 305 words


EX-ENGLAND cricket star Chris Broad yesterday slammed Pakistani cops for FLEEING
as terrorists ambushed Sri Lanka's Test team.

Match referee Chris, 51, survived the rocket, grenade and gun attack by al-Qaeda
fanatics which killed eight people and injured seven players.

Back in the UK, furious Chris said: "We were promised high-level,
presidentialstyle security. But in our hour of need security services left us to
our own devices.

"We were sitting ducks waiting for bullets to hit us.

"On the way to the ground there were armed cops directing traffic. But when the
firing started they vanished - questions need to be asked of the Pakistani
forces." Chris, father of current England bowler Stuart Broad, was in a
12-seater van following the Sri Lanka team bus to Lahore's Gaddafi Stadium.

The terrorists attacked at a roundabout. Driver Zafar Khan, 40, and six police
died.

But Chris said they were ABANDONED by their security of motorbikes and two
vehicles of cops with machine guns.

Pakistani Cricket Board chief Ijaz Butt hit back saying: "How can Chris Broad
say this when six policemen were killed?" New CCTV images showed terrorists
fleeing the slaughter.

Two are seen calmly hopping on a moped to escape.

Twelve to 14 terrorists, some as young as 20, are thought to have staged the
attack.

Shielding

Former Nottinghamshire star Chris revealed that he hadn't slept since. He was
praised for shielding wounded umpire Ahsan Rasa, but insisted: "I wasn't a
hero." Their van was stranded until a policeman finally leapt in and drove to
safety.

The Sri Lanka squad with their English assistant coach Paul Farbrace, and
wounded batsman Thilan Samaraweera, were back home yesterday.

Spin bowler Muttiah Muralitharan feared the terrorists colluded with security
forces.

He said: "Somehow there were no police with guns."

b.ashford@the-sun.co.uk

LOAD-DATE: March 5, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Escape . . image of gunman
Wounds . . Sri Lanka batsman Samaraweera
Return . . . Sri Lanka assistant coach Farbrace

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: SUN


                    Copyright 2009 NEWS GROUP NEWSPAPERS LTD
                              All Rights Reserved

                              439 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                                The Western Mail

                             March 5, 2009 Thursday
                                 First Edition

Glamorgan steps up security for Ashes Test;
Pakistan terrorist attack prompts swift action

BYLINE: Tim Lewis

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 960 words


GLAMORGAN Cricket Club have called an immediate review of security following the
terrorist attacks on the Sri Lankan team in Pakistan.

They have taken swift action to ensure the highest security needed will be in
place by the time England meet Australia for the Ashes at Glamorgan's new Swalec
ground in Cardiff this July.

It comes after six Pakistani policemen and a civilian were killed in the attacks
on Tuesday. Six Sri Lankan players and an English assistant coach were injured.

None of the terrorists involved have been arrested, leading the government of
Pakistan to offer a EUR125,000 reward for information about who launched the
attacks using guns, grenades and rocket launchers.

Simon Lee, stadium director at Glamorgan Cricket Club, told the Western Mail:
"It took everybody in cricket by surprise. We immediately called a review of our
existing security arrangements as a result of what happened.

"We're taking steps to ensure we have the very highest level of security advice
from the police and other security organisations.

"All along we have been working closely with the England and Wales Cricket Board
(ECB), who have offered us advice and guidance on the issues.

"It's our responsibility to ensure everybody who comes to our venue is as safe
as possible and we will be doing everything we can."

Lee said Glamorgan have recently brought in a former police officer to run the
security arrangements ahead of the first Ashes test, on July 8.

While Pakistan has become a no-go area for Test cricket for the foreseeable
future, the Ashes Test is certain to take place this summer.

"Of course we would like to think the threat is not as high here as in other
parts of the world but we will look at it from the point of view anything could
happen," added Mr Lee, who is in charge of the stadium at Sophia Gardens near
Cardiff city centre.

"Complacency won't be an issue because we will be looking at every aspect of
security.

"I'm confident we have the right people on board with all the experience and
knowledge to help us prepare for the Ashes."

Tuesday's attacks were the first time a terrorist organisation has targeted
sports stars since gunmen stormed the Olympic Village at the 1972 Games.

Eleven Israeli team members and a German police officer were killed after the
militant Palestinian group Black September took hostages from the Israeli
Olympic contingent in Munich.

In 1997 the IRA announced it had planted a bomb at the Grand National horse race
in Aintree. After a big police operation to evacuate everyone from the course it
was revealed to have been a hoax.

International security expert Dr Paul Moorcraft, a guest lecturer at Cardiff
University, said he wasn't surprised terrorists had begun to target cricketers.

He said: "Hardline Jihadist fundamentalists regard cricket as a white man's
sport and not in line with the Islamic faith.

"The attacks garnered a huge amount of publicity worldwide and are a severe
embarrassment to Pakistan. In that respect they have proved to be very
successful for the terrorists.

"It should make the people organising the Ashes extremely aware of what could
happen and now they have the time to prepare for it."

Up to 100,000 people are expected to descend on the Welsh capital for the
five-day Test as England look to reclaim the Ashes from Australia.

Mr Lee added: "At the moment we don't know if it is a new strategy of the
terrorists to specifically target sports people.

"Up until now our biggest threat has probably been bomb threats like they had at
Aintree a few years ago.

"Sporting events attract huge audiences both to the matches themselves and on
television, and the media coverage is massive so the terrorists know it will be
well publicised."

Security vanished when the terrorists attacked, says former cricketer

Former England batsman Chris Broad, pictured, yesterday spoke of his anger
towards the Pakistani security forces whom he said ran for cover during the
terror attack in Lahore.

The Test match referee was in a van with other officials which was targeted,
along with the Sri Lanka team bus, as they travelled to the Gaddafi Stadium.

Speaking at a press conference on his return to the UK yesterday, Broad, 51,
said: "I am extremely angry that we were promised high-level security and in our
hour of need that security vanished.

"I am extremely fortunate to be here today.

"I had an inkling before the Test match leg of the tour that something might
happen.

"I raised my concerns with the ICC before the tour started and they passed on
those concerns to the Pakistan Cricket Board and they assured me through email
that all security would be taken care of, presidential-style security. And
clearly that didn't happen.

"When we were in the van we weren't aware of what was going on outside. But
afterwards when you watch the TV pictures you can clearly see the white van we
were in, in the middle of a roundabout and not a sign of a policeman."

Broad was hailed a hero as he shielded wounded Pakistani umpire Ahsan Raza on
the floor of the van after at least a dozen armed terrorists opened fire ahead
of the third day of the Second Test yesterday.

The officials were abandoned by local police when their driver was shot dead in
the attack, Broad said.

Pakistani cricket and government officials denied the allegations about
insufficient security.

Officials said the convoy transporting the Sri Lankan team and cricket officials
was surrounded by police vehicles at the front, rear and side, but travelled the
same route each day of the five-day test match.

Pakistan Cricket Board chief Ijaz Butt said: "How can Chris Broad say this when
six policemen were killed?"

He declined further comment until he had a chance to speak to Broad.

LOAD-DATE: March 5, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:  OPEN FIRE: Pakistani police officers who survived a terrorist attack
are seen at a local hospital in Lahore, Pakistan

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                    Copyright 2009 Western Mail and Echo Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                              440 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                              Western Daily Press

                             March 5, 2009 Thursday

Chris broad: 'I am extremely angry';
Pakistani security forces ran for cover during the terror attack on the Sri
Lanka cricket team's coach instead of trying to help those who came under gun
fire, hero cricket umpire Chris Broad said.

SECTION: Pg. 5

LENGTH: 896 words


Former Gloucestershire and England batsman Mr Broad spoke today of his anger
towards the actions of the Pakistani security forces after the attack in Lahore
yesterday morning.

The Test match referee was in a van with other officials which was targeted
along with the Sri Lanka team bus as they travelled to the Gaddafi Stadium.

Speaking on his return to the UK today, Bristol-born Mr Broad, 51, said: "I am
extremely angry that we were promised high-level security and in our hour of
need that security vanished.

"I am extremely fortunate to be here today.

"I had an inkling before the Test match leg of the tour that something might
happen. I raised my concerns with the ICC (International Cricket Council) before
the tour started and they passed on those concerns to the Pakistan Cricket Board
and they assured me through email that all security would be taken care of,
presidential-style security.

"Clearly that didn't happen.

"When we were in the van we weren't aware of what was going on outside. But
afterwards when you watch the TV pictures you can clearly see the white van we
were in, in the middle of a roundabout and not a sign of a policeman anywhere."

Mr Broad was hailed a hero as he shielded wounded Pakistani umpire Ahsan Raza on
the floor of the van after at least a dozen armed terrorists opened fire ahead
of the third day of the Second Test on yesterday.

The officials were abandoned by local police when their driver was shot dead in
the attack, Mr Broad claimed.

"Once the shooting had died down, Nadeem Ghouri (a Test umpire) put his head up
to see and there was no-one there," he said. "At some stage an elite policeman
went into the van and ended lying on top of me. It was not a particularly brave
thing for him to do. "I told him he must get us away but he said in broken
English that he could not drive.

"Eventually another policeman opened the front door and he took the driver out
unceremoniously and dumped him on the floor and drove us to the ground.

"At every junction from the hotel to where we were attacked there were police in
uniforms with handguns controlling the traffic.

"How did the terrorists come up to the roundabout and start firing and these
guys did nothing about it?

Appearing tired and strained, Mr Broad added he had not slept since the
incident.

"I find it difficult to sleep at the moment because there are so many images
going through my mind. It's something that I'm going to have to come to terms
with," he said.

"Fortunately, I was able to speak to both my daughter and my son on the morning
of the incident. I spoke to my wife as well. I woke her up at four o'clock in
the morning - she wasn't best pleased but she was glad to know the situation.
Their minds were put at rest.

"I don't think it's really hit any of us yet, it probably will when we go home
having time and thoughts to ourselves. Then it might just hit home what we've
been through, because it was certainly an unbelievable experience."

Mr Broad said he first became aware they were under siege when he saw the Sri
Lanka team bus come to a halt along with their vehicle and then heard "popping
sounds".

He added it was umpire Raza who first shouted at everyone to get down.

He said: "I'm not a hero. Ahsan Raza took a bullet to the stomach or chest -
somewhere in the spleen and lung region. I was lying behind him on the floor of
the van and there were bullets flying all around us.

"I only noticed he was injured when I saw a large pool of blood had spilled on
to the floor and out of the partially opened van door.

"He's just an umpire who loves the game."

Mr Broad said he felt sadness for those injured and killed in the atrocity,
particularly the driver.

"One of the loveliest men you could ever wish to see. Always had a smile on his
face. He was just doing his job, driving to the cricket ground," he said.

"I feel sorry for his family. I send my best wishes."

He suggested the ICC could take more control over decisions on security issues
rather than leaving it to national boards.

He said he would speak again with his son, Stuart, who is on tour with England
in the West Indies, "just to reassure him that all things have gone well".

Mr Broad added that international cricket is unlikely to ever be the same in the
wake of the incident.

"I don't know what the future holds for Pakistan cricket. They have a lot of
very talented cricketers, and I feel sorry for the cricketers and for the
cricket-mad public of Pakistan," he said. "They love to see cricket, they come
in great numbers to one-day internationals.

"But this is a death knell for cricket in Pakistan and I feel sorry for those
people."

Pakistani police said they had arrested "some suspects" yesterday in connection
with the attack which left six police officers and a driver dead, and seven Sri
Lankan players wounded.

Lahore police chief Haji Habibur Rehman said the authorities had detained the
suspects but police later confirmed they had made no progress in tracking the
actual gunmen.

Mr Rehman said they raided locations in Lahore and surrounding districts and
arrested "some suspects." He gave no details of their alleged roles, or the
precise number detained, but said some were picked up at a Lahore hostel, where
bloodstained clothes were also found.

"We are after them, and we hope that God willing we will soon get a result," he
said, adding "so far we have not made any headway toward the perpetrators."

LOAD-DATE: June 11, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: 36


                      Copyright 2009 Bristol United Press
                              All Rights Reserved

                              441 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                              Western Daily Press

                             March 5, 2009 Thursday

Chris broad: 'I am extremely angry';
Pakistani security forces ran for cover during the terror attack on the Sri
Lanka cricket team's coach instead of trying to help those who came under gun
fire, hero cricket umpire Chris Broad said.

SECTION: Pg. 5

LENGTH: 896 words


Former Gloucestershire and England batsman Mr Broad spoke today of his anger
towards the actions of the Pakistani security forces after the attack in Lahore
yesterday morning.

The Test match referee was in a van with other officials which was targeted
along with the Sri Lanka team bus as they travelled to the Gaddafi Stadium.

Speaking on his return to the UK today, Bristol-born Mr Broad, 51, said: "I am
extremely angry that we were promised high-level security and in our hour of
need that security vanished.

"I am extremely fortunate to be here today.

"I had an inkling before the Test match leg of the tour that something might
happen. I raised my concerns with the ICC (International Cricket Council) before
the tour started and they passed on those concerns to the Pakistan Cricket Board
and they assured me through email that all security would be taken care of,
presidential-style security.

"Clearly that didn't happen.

"When we were in the van we weren't aware of what was going on outside. But
afterwards when you watch the TV pictures you can clearly see the white van we
were in, in the middle of a roundabout and not a sign of a policeman anywhere."

Mr Broad was hailed a hero as he shielded wounded Pakistani umpire Ahsan Raza on
the floor of the van after at least a dozen armed terrorists opened fire ahead
of the third day of the Second Test on yesterday.

The officials were abandoned by local police when their driver was shot dead in
the attack, Mr Broad claimed.

"Once the shooting had died down, Nadeem Ghouri (a Test umpire) put his head up
to see and there was no-one there," he said. "At some stage an elite policeman
went into the van and ended lying on top of me. It was not a particularly brave
thing for him to do. "I told him he must get us away but he said in broken
English that he could not drive.

"Eventually another policeman opened the front door and he took the driver out
unceremoniously and dumped him on the floor and drove us to the ground.

"At every junction from the hotel to where we were attacked there were police in
uniforms with handguns controlling the traffic.

"How did the terrorists come up to the roundabout and start firing and these
guys did nothing about it?

Appearing tired and strained, Mr Broad added he had not slept since the
incident.

"I find it difficult to sleep at the moment because there are so many images
going through my mind. It's something that I'm going to have to come to terms
with," he said.

"Fortunately, I was able to speak to both my daughter and my son on the morning
of the incident. I spoke to my wife as well. I woke her up at four o'clock in
the morning - she wasn't best pleased but she was glad to know the situation.
Their minds were put at rest.

"I don't think it's really hit any of us yet, it probably will when we go home
having time and thoughts to ourselves. Then it might just hit home what we've
been through, because it was certainly an unbelievable experience."

Mr Broad said he first became aware they were under siege when he saw the Sri
Lanka team bus come to a halt along with their vehicle and then heard "popping
sounds".

He added it was umpire Raza who first shouted at everyone to get down.

He said: "I'm not a hero. Ahsan Raza took a bullet to the stomach or chest -
somewhere in the spleen and lung region. I was lying behind him on the floor of
the van and there were bullets flying all around us.

"I only noticed he was injured when I saw a large pool of blood had spilled on
to the floor and out of the partially opened van door.

"He's just an umpire who loves the game."

Mr Broad said he felt sadness for those injured and killed in the atrocity,
particularly the driver.

"One of the loveliest men you could ever wish to see. Always had a smile on his
face. He was just doing his job, driving to the cricket ground," he said.

"I feel sorry for his family. I send my best wishes."

He suggested the ICC could take more control over decisions on security issues
rather than leaving it to national boards.

He said he would speak again with his son, Stuart, who is on tour with England
in the West Indies, "just to reassure him that all things have gone well".

Mr Broad added that international cricket is unlikely to ever be the same in the
wake of the incident.

"I don't know what the future holds for Pakistan cricket. They have a lot of
very talented cricketers, and I feel sorry for the cricketers and for the
cricket-mad public of Pakistan," he said. "They love to see cricket, they come
in great numbers to one-day internationals.

"But this is a death knell for cricket in Pakistan and I feel sorry for those
people."

Pakistani police said they had arrested "some suspects" yesterday in connection
with the attack which left six police officers and a driver dead, and seven Sri
Lankan players wounded.

Lahore police chief Haji Habibur Rehman said the authorities had detained the
suspects but police later confirmed they had made no progress in tracking the
actual gunmen.

Mr Rehman said they raided locations in Lahore and surrounding districts and
arrested "some suspects." He gave no details of their alleged roles, or the
precise number detained, but said some were picked up at a Lahore hostel, where
bloodstained clothes were also found.

"We are after them, and we hope that God willing we will soon get a result," he
said, adding "so far we have not made any headway toward the perpetrators."

LOAD-DATE: August 21, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: 36


                      Copyright 2009 Bristol United Press
                              All Rights Reserved

                              442 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                              Western Daily Press

                             March 5, 2009 Thursday

Chris broad: 'I am extremely angry';
Pakistani security forces ran for cover during the terror attack on the Sri
Lanka cricket team's coach instead of trying to help those who came under gun
fire, hero cricket umpire Chris Broad said.

SECTION: Pg. 5

LENGTH: 896 words


Former Gloucestershire and England batsman Mr Broad spoke today of his anger
towards the actions of the Pakistani security forces after the attack in Lahore
yesterday morning.

The Test match referee was in a van with other officials which was targeted
along with the Sri Lanka team bus as they travelled to the Gaddafi Stadium.

Speaking on his return to the UK today, Bristol-born Mr Broad, 51, said: "I am
extremely angry that we were promised high-level security and in our hour of
need that security vanished.

"I am extremely fortunate to be here today.

"I had an inkling before the Test match leg of the tour that something might
happen. I raised my concerns with the ICC (International Cricket Council) before
the tour started and they passed on those concerns to the Pakistan Cricket Board
and they assured me through email that all security would be taken care of,
presidential-style security.

"Clearly that didn't happen.

"When we were in the van we weren't aware of what was going on outside. But
afterwards when you watch the TV pictures you can clearly see the white van we
were in, in the middle of a roundabout and not a sign of a policeman anywhere."

Mr Broad was hailed a hero as he shielded wounded Pakistani umpire Ahsan Raza on
the floor of the van after at least a dozen armed terrorists opened fire ahead
of the third day of the Second Test on yesterday.

The officials were abandoned by local police when their driver was shot dead in
the attack, Mr Broad claimed.

"Once the shooting had died down, Nadeem Ghouri (a Test umpire) put his head up
to see and there was no-one there," he said. "At some stage an elite policeman
went into the van and ended lying on top of me. It was not a particularly brave
thing for him to do. "I told him he must get us away but he said in broken
English that he could not drive.

"Eventually another policeman opened the front door and he took the driver out
unceremoniously and dumped him on the floor and drove us to the ground.

"At every junction from the hotel to where we were attacked there were police in
uniforms with handguns controlling the traffic.

"How did the terrorists come up to the roundabout and start firing and these
guys did nothing about it?

Appearing tired and strained, Mr Broad added he had not slept since the
incident.

"I find it difficult to sleep at the moment because there are so many images
going through my mind. It's something that I'm going to have to come to terms
with," he said.

"Fortunately, I was able to speak to both my daughter and my son on the morning
of the incident. I spoke to my wife as well. I woke her up at four o'clock in
the morning - she wasn't best pleased but she was glad to know the situation.
Their minds were put at rest.

"I don't think it's really hit any of us yet, it probably will when we go home
having time and thoughts to ourselves. Then it might just hit home what we've
been through, because it was certainly an unbelievable experience."

Mr Broad said he first became aware they were under siege when he saw the Sri
Lanka team bus come to a halt along with their vehicle and then heard "popping
sounds".

He added it was umpire Raza who first shouted at everyone to get down.

He said: "I'm not a hero. Ahsan Raza took a bullet to the stomach or chest -
somewhere in the spleen and lung region. I was lying behind him on the floor of
the van and there were bullets flying all around us.

"I only noticed he was injured when I saw a large pool of blood had spilled on
to the floor and out of the partially opened van door.

"He's just an umpire who loves the game."

Mr Broad said he felt sadness for those injured and killed in the atrocity,
particularly the driver.

"One of the loveliest men you could ever wish to see. Always had a smile on his
face. He was just doing his job, driving to the cricket ground," he said.

"I feel sorry for his family. I send my best wishes."

He suggested the ICC could take more control over decisions on security issues
rather than leaving it to national boards.

He said he would speak again with his son, Stuart, who is on tour with England
in the West Indies, "just to reassure him that all things have gone well".

Mr Broad added that international cricket is unlikely to ever be the same in the
wake of the incident.

"I don't know what the future holds for Pakistan cricket. They have a lot of
very talented cricketers, and I feel sorry for the cricketers and for the
cricket-mad public of Pakistan," he said. "They love to see cricket, they come
in great numbers to one-day internationals.

"But this is a death knell for cricket in Pakistan and I feel sorry for those
people."

Pakistani police said they had arrested "some suspects" yesterday in connection
with the attack which left six police officers and a driver dead, and seven Sri
Lankan players wounded.

Lahore police chief Haji Habibur Rehman said the authorities had detained the
suspects but police later confirmed they had made no progress in tracking the
actual gunmen.

Mr Rehman said they raided locations in Lahore and surrounding districts and
arrested "some suspects." He gave no details of their alleged roles, or the
precise number detained, but said some were picked up at a Lahore hostel, where
bloodstained clothes were also found.

"We are after them, and we hope that God willing we will soon get a result," he
said, adding "so far we have not made any headway toward the perpetrators."

LOAD-DATE: March 6, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: 36


                      Copyright 2009 Bristol United Press
                              All Rights Reserved

                              443 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                               Canterbury Adscene

                                 March 6, 2009

'Grateful to be alive' after terror attack

BYLINE: James Scott

SECTION: Pg. 3

LENGTH: 297 words


James.scott@krnmedia.co.uk

FORMER Kent cricketer and coach Paul Farbrace  is "grateful to be alive" after
he was  targeted in the terrorist attack on the Sri Lankan cricket team in
Pakistan.

Mr Farbrace, 41, a former wicket keeper and academy coach for Kent, suffered a
shrapnel wound to his arm when 14 masked gunmen fired on the team bus on its way
to the Gaddafi Stadium in Lahore for the third day of the second test against
Pakistan on Tuesday.

The terrorists also used grenades and a rocket launcher in their murderous
15-minute assault which claimed eight lives including six Pakistani policeman.

Seven cricketers and "Farbie",  the Sri Lanka team's assistant coach, were
injured.

Fellow Englishman Chris Broad, the match referee,  had been travelling in a van
behind the bus  when the terrorists opened fire.

Mr Farbrace, who used to live in Ash, said: "I'm just very, very grateful that
I'm still alive to be able to look back on the situation.

"I feel desperately sad for people around us, people that died trying to save
us. That's horrendous, I think that's something that will stay with you forever.

"We're extremely lucky and extremely grateful.

"The poor guy driving the minibus with the match referee and the umpires in it,
he was just doing his job and he gets killed doing a very ordinary, mundane
job."

After being treated for their injuries in the dressing room at the stadium, Mr
Farbrace and the rest of the team were evacuated by  army helicopter.

The cricketers had been on their way to play Pakistan in the first test series
to have been played in the country for more than a year due to security fears.

Pakistani police are still searching for the people believed to have carried out
the atrocities. Though some people have been detained none are believed to be
the gunmen.

LOAD-DATE: June 11, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: 264


                    Copyright 2009 Northcliffe Media Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              444 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                               Canterbury Adscene

                                 March 6, 2009

'Grateful to be alive' after terror attack

BYLINE: James Scott

SECTION: Pg. 3

LENGTH: 297 words


James.scott@krnmedia.co.uk

FORMER Kent cricketer and coach Paul Farbrace  is "grateful to be alive" after
he was  targeted in the terrorist attack on the Sri Lankan cricket team in
Pakistan.

Mr Farbrace, 41, a former wicket keeper and academy coach for Kent, suffered a
shrapnel wound to his arm when 14 masked gunmen fired on the team bus on its way
to the Gaddafi Stadium in Lahore for the third day of the second test against
Pakistan on Tuesday.

The terrorists also used grenades and a rocket launcher in their murderous
15-minute assault which claimed eight lives including six Pakistani policeman.

Seven cricketers and "Farbie",  the Sri Lanka team's assistant coach, were
injured.

Fellow Englishman Chris Broad, the match referee,  had been travelling in a van
behind the bus  when the terrorists opened fire.

Mr Farbrace, who used to live in Ash, said: "I'm just very, very grateful that
I'm still alive to be able to look back on the situation.

"I feel desperately sad for people around us, people that died trying to save
us. That's horrendous, I think that's something that will stay with you forever.

"We're extremely lucky and extremely grateful.

"The poor guy driving the minibus with the match referee and the umpires in it,
he was just doing his job and he gets killed doing a very ordinary, mundane
job."

After being treated for their injuries in the dressing room at the stadium, Mr
Farbrace and the rest of the team were evacuated by  army helicopter.

The cricketers had been on their way to play Pakistan in the first test series
to have been played in the country for more than a year due to security fears.

Pakistani police are still searching for the people believed to have carried out
the atrocities. Though some people have been detained none are believed to be
the gunmen.

LOAD-DATE: March 7, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: 264


                    Copyright 2009 Northcliffe Media Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              445 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                          The Guardian - Final Edition

                              March 6, 2009 Friday

Israel: Bulldozer driver shot by police after 'terror' attack

BYLINE: Rory McCarthy

SECTION: GUARDIAN INTERNATIONAL PAGES; Pg. 23

LENGTH: 97 words


A Palestinian bulldozer driver rammed and flipped over a police car in
Jerusalem, injuring two police officers, and then hit a bus before he was shot,
officials said yesterday. Israeli police said they regarded the incident as a
terrorist attack. The driver of the bulldozer was shot several times and taken
to hospital with severe injuries. There were conflicting reports about whether
he had been killed. The two policemen suffered slight injuries. The incident
appears similar to at least two other attacks in Jerusalem last year in which
bulldozers were used against cars and buses.

LOAD-DATE: March 6, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2009 Guardian Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              446 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                            Kent and Sussex Courier

                                 March 6, 2009

Tunbridge Wells Pakistani community condemns terrorist attack

SECTION: Pg. 4

LENGTH: 72 words


The Pakistani community in Tunbridge Wells has expressed its shock and grief
over the terrorist attack on the Sri Lanka cricket team in Lahore, Pakistan.

Many are too afraid to go back to the country for holidays, as they are
concerned about security.

Community members gathered this week to show their solidarity with the Sri
Lankan community in Tunbridge Wells.

For full story see this Friday's edition of the Kent and Sussex Courier.

LOAD-DATE: June 11, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: 101


                     Copyright 2009 Kent and Sussex Courier
                              All Rights Reserved

                              447 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                            Kent and Sussex Courier

                                 March 6, 2009

Tunbridge Wells Pakistani community condemns terrorist attack

SECTION: Pg. 4

LENGTH: 72 words


The Pakistani community in Tunbridge Wells has expressed its shock and grief
over the terrorist attack on the Sri Lanka cricket team in Lahore, Pakistan.

Many are too afraid to go back to the country for holidays, as they are
concerned about security.

Community members gathered this week to show their solidarity with the Sri
Lankan community in Tunbridge Wells.

For full story see this Friday's edition of the Kent and Sussex Courier.

LOAD-DATE: August 21, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: 101


                     Copyright 2009 Kent and Sussex Courier
                              All Rights Reserved

                              448 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                            Kent and Sussex Courier

                                 March 6, 2009

Tunbridge Wells Pakistani community condemns terrorist attack

SECTION: Pg. 4

LENGTH: 72 words


The Pakistani community in Tunbridge Wells has expressed its shock and grief
over the terrorist attack on the Sri Lanka cricket team in Lahore, Pakistan.

Many are too afraid to go back to the country for holidays, as they are
concerned about security.

Community members gathered this week to show their solidarity with the Sri
Lankan community in Tunbridge Wells.

For full story see this Friday's edition of the Kent and Sussex Courier.

LOAD-DATE: March 7, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: 101


                     Copyright 2009 Kent and Sussex Courier
                              All Rights Reserved

                              449 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                                   The Mirror

                              March 6, 2009 Friday
                                 3 Star Edition

MAN KILLED IN 'GAY HATE' KNIFE ATTACK;
TERROR

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 21

LENGTH: 107 words


A MAN was stabbed to death on his doorstep and his live-in partner left fighting
for his life in a suspected gay-hate attack.

Retired trade unionist Gerry Edwards, 59, was knifed repeatedly and killed by a
man who shouted vile abuse.

His partner of 15 years, NHS nurse Chris Bevan, 56, heard the disturbance at
their flat on Tuesday night and ran to help. He too was stabbed several times.

He staggered to a neighbour's house in Bromley, South East London, to raise the
alarm before collapsing.

Neighbour Brenda Boakes said: "It is shocking. They are nice men."

Police later recovered the murder weapon. Two men, in their 40s and 60s, were
arrested.

LOAD-DATE: March 6, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                            Copyright 2009 MGN Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              450 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                  Belfast News

                             March 7, 2009 Saturday

Two soldiers killed in terror attack

BYLINE: Sam McBride

LENGTH: 656 words


TWO soldiers have been shot dead in a terrorist attack on an Army barracks in
Antrim.Three other people, some of whom may be civilian employees of the
Ministry of Defence, are in a serious condition in hospital and one is in a
stable condition in hospital.The drive-by shooting, seemingly involving at least
one machine gun, took place at Massereene Barracks at around 9.40pm on Saturday
night.The gunmen apparently used a pizza delivery van to get close to the
barracks before firing several prolonged bursts of gunfire and making their
escape.The murders are the first time soldiers have been killed by terrorists in
Northern Ireland since 1997.No group has so far claimed responsibility for the
attack, but it has been widely blamed on dissident republicans.A Ministry of
Defence statement released in the early hours of Sunday morning confirmed "with
deep regret" that the two dead were soldiers.Prime Minister Gordon Brown, who is
being kept informed of the incident, said that everything would be done to bring
the perpetrators to justice.First Minister Peter Robinson, who postponed a
planned trip to America following the attack, offered his sympaty to the dead
men's families."This incident clearly vindicates the position taken by the Chief
Constable earlier this week to ensure that he had the necessary resources to
meet the challenge posed by dissident republicans," he said.Speaking from the
scene, local DUP MP William McCrea said: "These soldiers were simply doing their
guard duty and were not acting as a threat to anyone."As I said in the House of
Commons last week, the Government and the Chief Constable must utilise all
resources at their disposal to ensure that these terrorist groups are crushed."I
trust that those who were questioning the Chief Constable's decision last week
will now realise the importance of strong measures being taken against these
groups."Junior Minister Jeffrey Donaldson said: "No one wants to see this
happening and there is a responsibility behind all parties in NI to get fully
behind the police and security forces so that these people are hunted down and
caught."Speaking of Sinn Fein's heavy criticism just a day earlier of Chief
Constable Sir Hugh Orde for bringing in Army special forces to gather
intelligence on dissident republicans, he said: "With an incident like this, you
have to decide are you in favour of terrorism or are you against it."If you are
against it you have to support the security forces in taking the measures they
need to defeat terrorism."Local SDLP Assemblyman Thomas Burns had driven down
the road just two hours prior to the attack.Condemning the murders, Mr Burns
said that the Province could not be allowed to sink back into the darkest days
of the Troubles when such murders were commonplace.Alliance leader David Ford
also condemned the attack, but there was no immediate response from Sinn Fein.At
Antrim Area Hospital, where the casualties were being treated, there was a
visible police presence.The Northern Ireland Ambulance Service said that it had
received a call at 9.40pm and had despatched six ambulances and two rapid
response vehicles.In a statement, Downing Street said:"This is a terrible
incident that we utterly condemn and the prime minister's thoughts, first and
foremost, are with the families of those killed and with those seriously injured
in this attack."Describing the attack as "an act of criminal barbarism,"
Secretary of State Shaun Woodward said: "My thoughts are with the families of
those killed and injured in this murderous attack.

"The contrast between those who serve the community and those who would destroy
it could not be clearer. The people who did this will be pursued and they will
never stop the political process in Northern Ireland." Masareene barracks is
home to 38 Engineer Regiment, which only moved to Northern Ireland last summer
and is in the process of deploying to Afghanistan with 19 Light Brigade.

LOAD-DATE: April 23, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: BELF


                       Copyright 2009 Johnston Press Plc
                              All Rights Reserved

                              451 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                          The Guardian - Final Edition

                             March 7, 2009 Saturday

International: Pakistan: As human victims of terror attack are buried, nation
mourns the other casualty - cricket: Entertainment-starved country feels loss
deeply: Foreign teams are urged not to let violence win

BYLINE: Saeed Shah, Lahore, Maseeh Rahman, Delhi

SECTION: GUARDIAN INTERNATIONAL PAGES; Pg. 25

LENGTH: 892 words


There were two sets of mourners in Pakistan this week. Friends and relatives of
those caught up in Tuesday's brazen attack on a convoy of visiting Sri Lankan
cricketers in the heart of Lahore buried their dead and lamented the cost of a
nation's slide into violence and terrorism.

Then there was the rest of the nation, mourning the death of international
cricket in Pakistan. In a country where governance, economic development and
security have gone backwards with each passing year, the Pakistan cricket team
was a national mania, providing hope and vicarious glory to 160 million people.
The attack on the Sri Lankan cricket team has ended all that for now.

From the children who improvise games using tennis balls wrapped in thick black
tape, bricks as wickets, barefoot in the back streets of the big cities, to the
businessmen who stop working for an entire Test match, the significance was
clear: foreign players will shun Pakistan. The 2011 World Cup, due to be
co-hosted here, will be taken away.

Such is the obsession for the game that after the attack all that many
Pakistanis could immediately think was that it was a "conspiracy to take away
the World Cup".

"This is a Muslim country. There are no night clubs here. For entertainment
there is cricket or you can go to a restaurant with your family. But the first
priority is cricket," said Shahzad Mehmood, a 28-year-old accounts clerk who had
come to the site of the terror attack to lay flowers. "When we play cricket, or
watch cricket, we feel so happy."

Pakistan's stultified development, with religious conservatism getting an ever
tighter grip, means leisure pursuits are few. With unemployment high, there are
few options to divert youthful minds from boredom and disenchantment. Cricket
goes a long way to filling the entertainment gap. Not domestic cricket, which is
woefully organised and watched by hardly anyone, but the national team.

The current captain, Younis Khan, put it bluntly: "If cricket is snatched away,
doesn't it look like more people like the ones who attacked Sri Lanka will be
produced?"

Imran Khan, the former Pakistan captain, now a politician, said it was cricket
that helped Pakistan and other commonwealth countries achieve dignity in
tumultuous post-independence years.

"The colonial hangover was removed by the cricket team," he said. "When I
started we were the generation that couldn't possibly think of beating England.
Then we began beating England. Much more important than beating other teams was
to beat England because they were considered the master, the ex-colonialists. It
was a country regaining its honour and pride through cricket, getting that
self-esteem that colonialism destroys."

On match days the nation huddles around televisions. At the weekend, and on
weekday afternoons, every scrap of waste ground, every park and yard is filled
with boys and young men playing cricket. The big entertainment for a Saturday
night is to rig up some lights in the street and play right through until dawn,
all the kids in the neighbourhood joining in. During Ramadan, the month of
fasting when people can only eat after dark, night cricket on the streets takes
over. People play all night, sleep all day. Special leagues for Ramadan are set
up in some places.

The head of the Pakistan cricket board is appointed by the president of the
country and is answerable only to him. When there's a change in head of state,
the chairman of the PCB always follows.

Pakistan once led the world at hockey and squash. But that is long past. It is
Pakistan's international cricket stars on billboards and in television adverts,
selling shampoo and mobile phones.

An artificially created country when the British left India, Pakistan is made up
of four provinces, three of which have breakaway movements. Those regional
rivalries are forgotten when cheering for the national cricket team.

"It (cricket) is integral to the federation. It connects the people," said
Irshad Niaz, a 53-year-old businessman, also standing at the site of the terror
attack. Niaz remembers fondly how he once saw Viv Richards, the celebrated West
Indies batsman, in Lahore, in the 1980s. "It was inspiring for me just to see
him." Now a generation may grow up without seeing foreign stars - and their own
heroes. The progress of Pakistani players will suffer too - promising youngsters
tend to be tried out in home series.

"Terrorism has won," said Imtiaz Hussain, an insurance worker in Lahore. "We
will get to the point when we are on our knees and have to invite in America, or
some other country, to take us over. This is a plot against Pakistan."

Among militant groups, though, cricket is considered an imperial throwback. The
banned Lashkar-e-Taiba, suspected of involvement in the recent Mumbai and Lahore
attacks, called upon Pakistanis to give up the sport. "The British gave Muslims
the bat, snatched the sword and said to them: 'You take this bat and play
cricket. Give us your sword. With its help we will kill you and rape your
women,'" the LeT said in its magazine.

But most Pakistanis disagree. "The game of cricket is next to religion in
Pakistan," said Waseem Bari, a former Pakistani wicket-keeper. "Of course
there's been a tragedy but the solution is not to isolate Pakistan. When a
person is down, one way is to put him down further, the other thing is to give a
hand of support."

LOAD-DATE: March 7, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2009 Guardian Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              452 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                            MAIL ON SUNDAY (London)

                              March 8, 2009 Sunday

WENGER: FOOTBALL COULD BE NEXT FOR A TERRORIST ATTACK

BYLINE: BY ROB DRAPER

LENGTH: 367 words


ARSENE WENGER fears football will be the target of a high-profile terror attack
following the ambush of the Sri Lanka cricket team in Pakistan last week that
ended with the deaths of seven people.

Police escorts may return for leading football teams in the wake of the attacks
in Lahore, after Wenger complained that it is increasingly difficult to obtain
police protection to and from games.

Wenger also revealed that Arsenal have already experienced security scares,
although they turned out to be false alarms, and that he worries football will
eventually provide a target for terrorists due to the sport's high profile.

Asked if he was concerned in the wake of Lahore attacks, Wenger said: 'No, but
you wonder why not? Sport has become world famous and is a good thing to attract
attention. I wonder about it, because in England it's more and more difficult to
get any police escort. The police just refuse, especially in London.

'I have thought about it (the possibility of an attack) many times when you go
the World Cup and European Championships. It happened to us at Arsenal, where we
have had alerts before the game when we played at home. We kept it quiet as much
as we could and it turned out to be nothing. You find a bag in the stadium that
someone forgot.'

The Metropolitan Police confirmed that their policy regarding police escorts for
sport's teams is being reviewed. The police normally provide motorbike guides
through traffic but not full-scale security for teams, but the Met will
reconsider their position in the light of a sports team being targeted.

A police spokeswoman said: 'We work closely with sports clubs and event
organisers to ensure the safety of the public and participants at all sporting
events within London.

'We currently provide a pilot service to guide sporting teams through traffic
where needed. Police escorts are provided following a risk assessment on a
case-by-case basis. This is constantly under review.'

Wenger is not planning to increase Arsenal's security but admitted that the
threat had been in his mind ever since he was manager of Grampus Eight in Japan.

While he was in the country 12 people died in a chemical attack of sarin gas on
the Tokyo underground.

LOAD-DATE: March 7, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Papers


                   Copyright 2009 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              453 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                   The People

                             March 8, 2009, Sunday

WENGER: I FEAR TERROR ATTACK ON FOOTBALL;
 FA CUP: ARSENAL V BURNLEY SETANTA SPORTS 1, TODAY, KO 1.30

BYLINE: BY TOM HOPKINSON

SECTION: 3 Star Edition; SPORT; Pg. 50

LENGTH: 535 words

HIGHLIGHT: TERROR: Attacks in Pakistan


ARSENE WENGER fears Premier League clubs could be on a terrorist hitlist in the
wake of the Pakistan cricket atrocity.

The Arsenal manager says the global appeal of English football's top flight
makes it a genuine target - and a security nightmare.

He said: "Sport has become so major it is going to attract attention."

Wenger has first-hand experience of a terrorist strike and a city living in
fear.

He was in charge of Japanese side Nagoya Grampus Eight in 1995 when 12 people
died and 6,000 were injured after fundamentalists launched a series of Sarin gas
attacks on Tokyo's Metro system.

"They had bought helicopters from the Russian army and wanted to spread this gas
over the whole city," said Wenger.

He relived the terror after gunmen on Tuesday opened fire on a convoy taking the
Sri Lanka cricket team and officials to Lahore's Gaddafi Stadium.

Eight people were killed and 19 injured - including seven Sri Lanka players.

Wenger said: "We don't regard ourselves as targets, but you wonder 'why not?'.

"In England you don't get a police escort and it's more and more difficult to
get one before games. The police just refuse - especially in London.

"But you have to rely on the internal security of the country you are in."

Some clubs take security guards wherever they go but, despite any fears, Wenger
has no plans to beef up his off-field team by hiring minders.

He said: "I don't live with the obsession of security and I won't be getting any
security for our team. The police have to look after it.

"We are a business with as few people as possible and that's how I want to keep
it.

"I do not want security ... and I do not want five doctors."

Turning to on-field matters, Wenger said he concentrated on getting his players
into the right frame of mind.

"In the modern game, I try to keep things as simple as possible because you can
quickly have between 20 and 25 staff and 11 players," he said.

"I always say, 'Give a good ball and do not make too many problems'. Let's just
play football - because the rest you can't master."

Wenger has ordered Arsenal to stop Burnley completing the double over them
today.

Arsenal were dumped out of the Carling Cup at Turf Moor in December, and Wenger
warned: "Burnley gave Tottenham and Chelsea a hard time as well as beating us in
the Carling Cup.

"We need to focus and treat Burnley with respect, because we know they have a
side who can beat anyone.

"They are very mobile and very quick on the break. They use the flanks well, and
have Chris Eagles, who is a good player."

Wenger, who takes his side to Roma on Wednesday with a 1-0 Champions League
advantage, is urging fans to wait until the end of the campaign before casting
judgement.

He said: "Let's see how well we do in Europe, the FA Cup and where we finish in
the League - and afterwards assess what is success, or otherwise."

LIKELY LINE UPS

ARSENAL

Fabianski

Sagna

Gallas

Djourou

Gibbs

Wilshere

Diaby

Denilson

Nasri

Van Persie

Bendtner

BURNLEY

Jensen

Alexander

Carlisle

Caldwell

Kalvenes

Elliot

Eagles

McDonald

McCann

Blake

Paterson

LOAD-DATE: March 8, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

                            Copyright 2009 MGN Ltd.

                              454 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                                  Sunday Mail

                             March 8, 2009, Sunday

SCOT SO RELIEVED TO AVOID TERROR ATTACK;
SPORTS FILE

BYLINE: By DAVID TREBOLD

SECTION: SPORT; Pg. 64

LENGTH: 202 words


SALTIRES prospect Zeeshan Bashir admits he wasn't surprised by last week's
terror attacks on cricketers in Pakistan - because he had already fled the
country fearing for his life.

The Clydesdale and Scotland Lions spinner played in Lahore and Karachi during a
visit due to last five months.

But the Glaswegian, 20, came home a month early - just weeks before terrorists
killed eight people and wounded seven players in an ambush on the Sri Lanka team
and officials.

The Scot had even trained at the Gaddafi Stadium in Lahore yards from where the
atrocity took place.

He said: "I'mshocked but not surprised.

I stayed with an aunt in Lahore and violence was never far away. I am relieved
to be home safely.

"I visited the Gaddafi Stadium and it was bombed while I was in Pakistan but the
ground was empty.

"Karachi was even scarier - every night you could hear gunfire.

"After seeing a bombing on TV my mum pleaded with me to come home."

SCOTS umpires have sent messages of support to former colleague Ahsan Raza
(left) who was seriously wounded in the attacks.

Raza officiated here in 2007 and Cricket Scotland umpiring convener Sandy
Scotland said: "I've stayed in touch with Ahsan by email and wish him a speedy
recovery."

LOAD-DATE: March 8, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


            Copyright 2009 Scottish Daily Record & Sunday Mail Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              455 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                                  Sunday Mail

                             March 8, 2009, Sunday

REAL IRA MURDER 2 SOLDIERS;
FOUR WOUNDED IN TERRORIST ATTACK ON ARMY BASE

BYLINE: By NORMAN SILVESTER

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 698 words


TWO British soldiers were shot dead last night and four other men seriously
injured in a terrorist attack by the Real IRA.

The attack on the Massereene Barracks in Antrim around 9.20pm was carried out by
a gang posing as pizza delivery men.

The murdered soldiers are believed to be from the 38th Engineering Regiment. The
four injured men, two soldiers and two civilians, were taken to hospital in a
serious condition.

It is understood a car or van pulled up outside the main gates.

Soldiers and base security staff thought pizzas were being delivered and walked
straight into an ambush.

It is believed the barracks, which is due to close next year, was hit because it
is considered a soft target.

The 38th Engineers were traditionally based in Ripon, Yorkshire, but moved to
Massereene last summer. They have also been on tours of Iraq.

The attack is the most serious incident involving the security forces in
Northern Ireland since two police officers were killed in Lurgan in June 1996.

Northern Ireland was placed on terror alert on Thursday after MI5 received
information that the dissident Real IRA were planning a strike.

Last night Ian Paisley Jnr, a member of the Policing Board, said the shooting
could be a defining moment in the history of Northern Ireland.

He said: "For the last 10 years, people believed things like this happened in
foreign countries, places like Basra. Unfortunately it has returned to our
doorstep.

"There are people who have been intent on murdering police officers, soldiers or
someone else to galvanise support for some mad cause. This is where we are
tonight.

"The police have managed to keep the lid on this and they have had some
successes against these people.

"They have disrupted and harried them, but it's the people of Northern Ireland
who will suffer."

Security chiefs had warned for months that dissident republicans were determined
to inflict fatalities.

In recent weeks five police officers were wounded in gun and bomb attacks in
Londonderry, Dungannon, County Tyrone and County Fermanagh.

A spokesman for the Police Service of Northern Ireland said: "There are two
people dead, both military and understood to be male. Another four were injured.
It is too early to say who is responsible." One eyewitness said: "The road
leading up to the barracks has been shut off for a mile each way and the police
are stopping anyone from getting near. It must have been carefully planned."

It is believed there were two long bursts of gunfire during the incident.

Another witness, who lives near the base, said at first he thought it was
fireworks.

He added: "Then I heard a lot of loud bangs again, only a lot more than there
was initially - maybe between 10 and 20.

"Then the siren at the Army barracks went off. Then all you heard was the police
sirens and ambulances. There were at least six ambulances."

The incident comes on the back of a political row that erupted after it emerged
Chief Constable of the Police Service of Northern Ireland Sir Hugh Orde has
enlisted the special forces to help the police in the fight against terrorism.

Sinn Fein and the SDLP have clashed with Sir Hugh over his decision to deploy
specialist Signal Intelligence officers to mount round the-clock surveillance on
suspected dissident republicans believed to be planning attacks in Northern
Ireland.

They say it is a breach of an agreement that only police officers from the PSNI
do anti-terrorist work.

An MoD spokesman last night refused to confirm whether those injured had been
army personnel.

He said: "All I can say is there have been reports of a shooting at Massereene
Barracks in Antrim which houses the 38th Engineering Regiment."

Before the attack Northern Ireland Deputy First Minister and Sinn Fein MP Martin
McGuinness had said Army special forces are a "major threat".

He said: "The history of the North has shown that many of these forces have been
as much a danger to the community as any other group."

He added that the decision was "stupid and dangerous" and that it had "shaken
his confidence" in the chief constable.

'For 10 years, people have believed this only happened in foreign places like
Basra. Unfortunately it has now returned to our doorstep' - IAN PAISLEY JNR

LOAD-DATE: March 8, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Alert: Emergency crews at scene
Scene of carnage: Paramedics' cars outside the Massereene base after the
shooting last night
Warning: Hugh Orde

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


            Copyright 2009 Scottish Daily Record & Sunday Mail Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              456 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                  Sunday Life

                                 March 8, 2009
                                  Main Edition

SOLDIERS DIE IN PIZZA DELIVERY AMBUSH;
Six gunned down as Republican terrorists attack Army base

BYLINE: Martin Breen

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 954 words


RENEGADE republicans last night gunned down six people at an Antrim army base,
killing two soldiers in the attack.

The gang fired two bursts of automatic fire at Massereene Barracks on the town's
Randalstown Road at 9.20pm last night.

Its understood a vehicle pulled up outside the main gates. Soldiers and security
staff thought pizzas were being delivered and walked straight into an ambush.

Police and military personnel confirmed the two dead men were soldiers. A
spokesperson for the Ministry of Defence described the shooting as a "drive-by"
attack.

Local MP William McCrea said he believed that a pizza delivery man had arrived
with a takeaway for the base when the gunmen opened fire. He said that he had
heard a pizza delivery worker was among the injured. The four injured were
described as being in a serious condition in hospital last night.

He said: "It seems to be that the men came with the pizza and there must have
been those that were waiting for them

"They opened fire and six people were hit. Two are already dead, the others are
seriously injured. Two if them are civilians.

"I have just come from a memorial service for people murdered 20 years ago and
we thought all this was in the past."

The attack happened just 36 hours after Northern Ireland Chief Constable Sir
Hugh Orde confirmed that undercover soldiers had been called in to carry out
surveillance operations on dissidents amid warnings that the threat against his
officers and military personnel was at its highest for almost a decade.

First Minister and Democratic Unionist Party leader Peter Robinson offered his
sympathies to the families of the victims, and said he would postpone a
scheduled trip to the United States.

Mr Robinson said the attack was "terrible reminder of the events of the past".

He added: "These murders were a futile act by those who command no public
support and have no prospect of success in their campaign. It will not succeed."

Fellow DUP politician Ian Paisley Junior, a member of the Policing Board, said
afterwards: "This could be a defining moment in the history of Northern Ireland.

"For the last 10 years, people believed things like this happened in foreign
countries, places like Basra. Unfortunately it has returned to our doorstep.

"There are people who have been intent on murdering police officers or soldiers,
or someone else, to strike home and galvanise support for some mad cause. This
is where we are tonight.

"Some people also tried to exaggerate that message, and if this shooting is
attributed to dissident republicans, then it was no exaggeration.

"The police have managed to keep the lid on this and they have had some
successes against these people which they've kept quiet. They have disrupted and
harried them, but its the people of Northern Ireland who will suffer."

Witnesses reported hearing two long busts of gunfire as a car drove by the
barracks.

At least six ambulances and three paramedic vehicles rushed to the scene as
emergency sirens blared from inside the complex.

The injured were taken to Antrim Area Hospital, about a mile away.

The area around the barracks was sealed off and a massive security operation was
under way last night.

Nobody has yet claimed responsibility for the attack but the Real IRA or one of
its splinter factions is being linked to the shooting.

Last month security forces also defused a 300lb bomb in Castlewellan, Co Down
which may have been intended for an attack on a nearby barracks.

Security chiefs had warned for months that dissident republicans were determined
to inflict fatalities. Five police officers, two of them off-duty, were wounded
in separate gun and bomb attacks in Londonderry, Dungannon, Co Tyrone, near
Castlederg, also Tyrone, and not far from Roslea, Co Fermanagh, where the threat
has been at its highest.

There have also been a series of failed bomb attacks, one just a few weeks ago
near Castlewellan, Co Down.

The last soldier to be murdered in Northern Ireland was Lance Bombardier Stephen
Restorick, 23, who was shot by an IRA sniper at a checkpoint in Bessbrook,
County Armagh in February 1997.

The 38 Engineer Regiment has been based at Massereene Barracks since August last
year but is due to be relocated to RAF Aldergrove in Co Antrim by the end of
2010.

The relocations were announced in April last year by Armed Forces Minister Bob
Ainsworth who said Massereene Barracks would then be closed and disposed of.

Kylie McLaughlin, who lives near the scene, told the BBC: "It was constant fire
like a machine gun.

"It was very scary, we were not sure what was happening. We just can't believe
it has happened here."

The SDLP's Thomas Burns MLA said: "We condemn this attack.

"This has taken us back to the bad, bad old days which we have left long since
behind.

"It will cause the power sharing executive to wobble a bit - we are all very,
very concerned about that."

He added: "We are interested about moving Northern Ireland forward.

"We want to see a prosperous Northern Ireland, we don't want to see people
getting shot in the street."

David Ford, the leader of the Alliance Party, said it was "inconceivable" that
the attack could have been carried out by anyone other than dissident
republicans.

"The important thing is that we must not see politics and the peace settlement
that we have, fragile though it is, destabilised by this kind of action," he
added.

Speaking at the scene, Mayor of Antrim Oran Keenan said he did not believe there
was a strong dissident republican presence in Antrim.

He said that of the two civilians injured, one was a pizza delivery man.

"This is the first major shooting incident we have had in Antrim in over 25
years.

"The soldiers at this camp were getting ready for Afghanistan. We don't want a
mini-Afghanistan here."

LOAD-DATE: March 8, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: SL


                  Copyright 2009 Belfast Telegraph Newspapers
                              All Rights Reserved

                              457 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                         The Sunday Telegraph (London)

                                 March 8, 2009

Terrorist attack will not stop IPL

BYLINE: SCYLD BERRY CRICKET CORRESPONDENT

SECTION: SPORT; Cricket; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 1182  words


INTERNATIONAL cricketers are wearing black armbands in various parts of the
world this weekend. None of them can know what he or she - for the Women's World
Cup is being staged in Australia - is mourning exactly.

It could simply be the eight people killed in Lahore on Tuesday when the Sri
Lankan team coach was attacked. Or the black armbands could mark the demise of
cricket in Pakistan, which has produced more than its share of the sport's most
exciting players. David Morgan, the International Cricket Council president,
said yesterday: "International cricket in Pakistan is out of the question for
quite some time.'' Or, at the worst, the country itself could disintegrate,
along with cricket's latest growth area, Afghanistan.

Whatever the future, cricket lost what was left of its innocence when the gunmen
opened fire near the Gaddafi stadium and the number of security personnel who
fired back, in defence of the Sri Lankan players and match officials, was
suspiciously few. The process begun at Headingley in 1975, when protesters
poured oil on the pitch on the fourth night of the Test against Australia, was
completed last week. Nothing in cricket is sacred: everything and everyone is as
vulnerable to violence as in ordinary life. Cricket is the most vulnerable of
sports, partly because it takes the longest time, and there can be no stability
in such an abnormal society as the present Pakistan.

Since the 1950s, the armed services have taken most of the country's budget -
British High Commission officials estimate at least 70 per cent - before leaving
the civilian government with the remnants. There is no state education, no
health service: people are driven into the arms of wealthy extremist groups.

It is ironic that cricket's most influential administrator was born in Lahore.
Inderjit Singh Bindra, as a Sikh, had to flee the violence there at Partition,
and later created the stadium in the Indian Punjab, at Mohali, where England
sought refuge in December after their Test at Mumbai was cancelled because of
another terrorist attack. Not only the long-term brains behind Indian cricket,
and a commissioner of the Indian Premier League, Bindra is 'honorary adviser' to
the International Cricket Council, a post created specifically for him, and one
of his briefs is the game's worldwide development.

"I was reading on the internet the other day about the Taliban and their
attitude to cricket,'' Bindra said in Delhi yesterday. "They say that Muslims
should use swords not bats. They say that cricket in Asia is like opium in China
in the 19th century - a tool of the imperial powers. It is a very pernicious
philosophy.''

Bindra believes that Pakistan should not start on the very slippery slope of
playing at neutral venues. "That is a booby-trap and they will cease to be a
Test-playing country,'' he said. "How do youngsters watch and learn the game if
Pakistan do not play at home? Give Pakistan a chance to get their act together -
and they must ensure presidential-style security, not just talk about it. But,
ultimately, this is something that cannot be tackled by cricket administrators
but by the global powers.''

Pakistan may not be given the opportunity of playing anywhere soon. Their tour
of Bangladesh was postponed last week: the ICC had a fit when they saw the
security plan as it featured the Bangladesh Rifles, who have just mutinied.
Pakistan's one-day series against Australia in Abu Dhabi in April is likely to
be called off on security grounds. For political reasons as well, the Indian
government won't allow India to play Pakistan in bilateral series following the
Mumbai attacks.

The England and Wales Cricket Board, even before the events in Lahore, were keen
to stage some of Pakistan's matches in England. The chairman Giles Clarke had
identified Headingley as particularly appropriate. The summer of 2010 might well
see a few one-day internationals between Pakistan and Australia, but Test
matches are not going to make money as Pakistan supporters in this country have
never turned up for them.

Bindra knows the game's finances like no one else: "In Pakistan's television
contract, if they play against India they receive an extra amount. If they are
not playing against India, they don't make more than a nominal amount. As far as
their [abandoned] series against Sri Lanka was concerned, the Pakistan board was
only breaking even.''

So will the next World Cup be staged in Asia two years from now?

A magical wand will have to be waved by President Obama for Pakistan to be one
of the four scheduled hosts. Bangladesh? Maybe the Rifles will have ceased to
mutiny. Sri Lanka? The Tamil Tigers, cornered though they may be, still send
aircraft to bomb Colombo. And then there is the question of Afghanistan...

In South Africa, in April, Afghanistan will be one of 12 countries competing for
the last four places in the World Cup. "For a part of the world which has been
in the news for other reasons, this is a great story,'' said the ICC's global
development manager, Matthew Kennedy.

Recruiting players who had learned the game in refugee camps in Pakistan,
Afghanistan won Divisions Five, Four and Three of the World Cricket League to
reach the play-offs: they even play, on the roughest of grounds, in the areas
controlled by western forces. But if Afghanistan qualify for the 14-team World
Cup of 2011, and the Taliban still prefer them to wield swords not bats, the
security implications will be massive.

Bindra, however, says that the World Cup will go on in India, if nowhere else.
"We won't jump to that conclusion, but if the situation is bad, India is big
enough to stage the competition. The IPL has 59 matches spread over eight
franchises, the next World Cup has 49 matches.''

Doubts were expressed last week about the second IPL taking place. But Muttiah
Muralitharan, due to play with Andrew Flintoff for Chennai Super Kings, joked
that he is "going to wear a bulletproof jacket for future journeys on team
buses''. All the Sri Lankans signed for the IPL will, at this stage, go to India
- Thilan Samaraweera, the most badly injured, is not contracted - because they
believe security in India will be far tighter than in Pakistan.

Among England players, Ravi Bopara, contracted with Kings XI Punjab for
$450,000, "still plans to play in the IPL,'' according to his agent Mike Martin,
of Paragon Sports. "He will naturally listen to security advice from the PCA and
the ECB as well as from his franchise, but unless this produces additional
information, he doesn't foresee any reason to change his current plans to
participate.''

Flintoff's agent would not comment, but it would be a surprise if the other
England players think differently.

"I am 100 per cent certain the IPL will go ahead,'' said Bindra yesterday. "Each
of the venues except one has already got clearance from the Indian government. I
foresee no problem.'' The show will go on - in India. Whatever the security
situation in the rest of Asia, too much money is involved for it not to. And the
more violence there is, the more people need an escape from it.

LOAD-DATE: March 8, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2009 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              458 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring South Asia - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                              March 9, 2009 Monday

Pakistan intelligence agencies fear terror attack during lawyers' march

LENGTH: 225 words


Text of report by Tahir Niaz headlined "Terror attack feared during long march"
published by Pakistan newspaper Daily Times website on 9 March

Islamabad: A meeting at the Interior Ministry on Sunday [8 March] was informed
that terrorists could infiltrate the long march and trigger violence in the twin
cities. Sources said intelligence reports presented during the meeting, chaired
by Interior Adviser Rehman Malik, stated terrorists could cause trouble on a
small scale during the long march itself. However, the meeting decided the final
decision on whether to allow the long march participants to enter the city would
be taken only after a thorough examination of all feedback from intelligence and
administrative departments at provincial and district levels.

The meeting had been convened to review law and order in the federal capital and
the overall security situation in the country ahead of the long march and sit-in
announced by lawyers and opposition parties. Senior officials of the Interior
Ministry, the Islamabad administration and intelligence officials attended the
meeting. Sources said the option of providing space to the participants of long
march in the outskirts of the capital instead of allowing them access to
Constitution Avenue was also discussed during the meeting.

Source: Daily Times website, Lahore, in English 09 Mar 09

LOAD-DATE: March 9, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2009 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              459 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                  Belfast News

                              March 9, 2009 Monday

MASSEREENE MURDERS: SF condemn terror attack

BYLINE: Staff reporter

LENGTH: 356 words



HIGHLIGHT: SINN FEIN joined other nationalist politicians in condemning the
Antrim shootings.


Deputy First Minister Martin McGuinness said: "I was a member of the IRA, but
that war is over now."The people responsible for last night's incident are
clearly signalling that they want to resume or re-start that war."Well, I deny
their right to do that."The MP for Mid-Ulster told the BBC: "I will stand for
all democrats against their attempts to plunge us back into conflict; to see
soldiers on the streets; to see more checkpoints on the roads; to see houses
being raided and to see people being dragged back to interrogation
centres."Those days are over. They can never come back again."Sinn Fein leader
Gerry Adams said: "Last night's attack was an attack on the peace process."It
was wrong and counter productive."He added: "Those responsible have no support,
no strategy to achieve a united Ireland."Their intention is to bring British
soldiers back onto the streets."Mr Adams stated that Irish republicans and
democrats had a duty to oppose violence and to defend the peace process."Sinn
Fein has a responsibility to be consistent."The logic of this is that we support
the police in the apprehension of those involved in last night's attack."SDLP
leader Mark Durkan said: "I utterly condemn the murderous attack at Mass-ereene
Barracks in Antrim."Those who committed it are steeped in the mindset and means
of past violence."Such terrorism achieves nothing but grief and injury for
victims and shock and disgust across the community."He said that so-called
dissident republicans "need to understand this is not an attack on the British
Army but the Irish people who have voted for and value above all else peaceful
politics and democratic accommodation".Mr Durkan said that completing the
devolution of justice and policing would be "the strongest way for democrats" to
confound the dissidents.From America, Congressman Richard Neale, who is chairman
of the Friends of Ireland, strongly condemned the killings."The perpetrators
must be brought to justice."I also wish to express my sincere condolences to the
families of those killed and injured last night."My thoughts and prayers are
with them during this very difficult time."

LOAD-DATE: April 23, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: BELF


                       Copyright 2009 Johnston Press Plc
                              All Rights Reserved

                              460 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                            The Independent (London)

                              March 9, 2009 Monday
                                 First Edition

'Real IRA' claims blame for attack on barracks;
Fears of recriminations after terrorists' 'evil and cowardly attack on soldiers'

BYLINE: David McKittrick IRELAND CORRESPONDENT

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 840 words


NORTHERN Ireland is confronting the prospect of further lethal dissident
republic violence yesterday after two British soldiers were shot dead in an
ambush outside an Army base near Belfast. The two soldiers, the first to die
violently in Northern Ireland for more than a decade, were in desert fatigues
because they were due to fly to Afghanistan the following morning.

They had come to the gates of their Masserene base in Co Antrim to collect pizza
when they were ambushed by terrorists firing automatic rifles. Four other people
were wounded in the attack including a Polish national who is critically ill in
hospital. The killers even stood over their victims and fired a second volley.

Last night, a Dublin-based newspaper had a call supposedly from the Real IRA
claiming responsibility for the attack, using a recognised codename.

Gordon Brown declared that "no murderer will be able to derail the peace
process" but there was anxiety that the killings might generate either political
recriminations or retaliation from extreme loyalists. The Prime Minister said:
"The whole country is shocked and outraged at the evil and cowardly attacks on
soldiers serving their country. We will do everything in our power to make sure
that Northern Ireland is safe and secure, and I assure you we will bring these
murderers to justice."

Martin McGuinness, of Sinn Fein, said: "I was a member of the IRA, but that war
is over now. The people responsible for last night's incident are clearly
signalling that they want to resume or restart that war. Well, I deny their
right to do that."

Security sources said the planning and execution of the attack showed an
increasing sophistication among the dissidents, as well as growing evidence of
collusion between republican groups. Monitoring of communications presented a
"confusing and complex" picture in which members of the two main groups, Real
and Continuity IRA, appeared to be speaking to each other while the groups
themselves were split into as many as six sub-groups.

There was also evidence that the dissidents have been acquiring weaponry
including semi-automatic rifles, machine-pistols and, mechanisms for detonating
pressure-plate explosive devices of the type British forces face in Afghanistan
and Iraq. But security sources deny reports that a 300lb car bomb found at
Castlewellan, Co Down, had, as it was reported at the time, an advanced
anti-handling device.

Though it seems there were no prior indications of the Saturday night attack,
security was already unusually high because of an increased threat from a
variety of small-scale but lethal republican dissidents opposed to the peace
process. This month, the threat level was upgraded from "substantial" to
"severe", and sources revealed that MI5 spends 15 per cent of its resources on
countering terrorism in Northern Ireland. Chief Constable Sir Hugh Orde recently
requested support from the Army's Special Reconnaissance Regiment to help with
surveillance.

The weekend victims had gone to meet a mobile Domino's Pizza takeaway which had
arrived with food for the soldiers. The gunmen obviously knew of the regular
routine on Saturday nights when as many as 20 orders of pizza were delivered.
They waited until the troops emerged through the gates to pick up the food. The
ambushers then stepped forward from the shadows and sprayed bullets with
sustained bursts from semi-automatic weapons, hitting four soldiers and two
Domino employees.

A senior police officer said: "The gunmen, having fired an initial volley of
shots, moved forward when people were on the ground and fired additional shots
at those people on the ground, so it was a very, very callous and very ruthless
attack."

Maverick republican splinter groups have for some time publicly proclaimed their
ambition to kill members of the security forces as part of a strategy to restart
the Troubles and return to large-scale conflict. They have injured several
police personnel in gun and bomb attacks but security force members have escaped
with their lives, sometimes by luck.

Northern Ireland's First Minister Peter Robinson said there must not be
retaliation for the attack, declaring: "Can I urge all of those who may be angry
within the Unionist community; this is a matter to be left entirely with the
police and the authorities to deal with."

Frankie Gallagher, a member of a political group which has links with the
paramilitary Ulster Defence Association, echoed this, saying: "This cowardly
attack has created considerable anger in unionist communities but there must be
no retaliatory actions. This situation must be dealt with entirely by the
police."

Mr Robinson and Mr McGuinness have delayed a planned visit to the US which is
due to end with meeting President Barack Obama at the White House.

Sir Hugh Orde added: "This was an act by an increasingly desperate small group
of increasingly desperate people who are determined to drag 99 per cent of this
community back to where they don't want to go."

If we're at peace, why are soldiers still dying?

News, pages 4&5

LOAD-DATE: March 9, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: IA


                      Copyright 2009 Independent Print Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                              461 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                               The Sun (England)

                              March 9, 2009 Monday
                                   Edition 1

EXECUTED BY COWARDS;
Two soldiers killed in Real IRA attack TERRORIST GUNMEN OPEN FIRE AT ARMY PIZZA
DELIVERY

BYLINE: JASON JOHNSON

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 4,5

LENGTH: 1229 words


TWO British soldiers were gunned down in a deadly ambush as they paid for a
PIZZA delivery.

Four soldiers in desert fatigues came to greet the drivers at Massereene
Barracks in Antrim.

When crazed gunmen leapt out of a car firing automatic weapons, they shouted for
the two to "get down".

And one of the UNARMED soldiers threw himself on top of 19-year-old Domino's
deliveryman, Anthony 'Anto' Watson to shield him from the bullets.

But the cowardly terrorist walked towards the squaddie, pointed his weapon
downwards and EXECUTED him at close range.

He was one of two soldiers, both aged in their early 20s, who died at the scene
on Saturday night.

Anto was hit three times and was in hospital last night after undergoing
surgery.

Critical

Two other squaddies were injured in the senseless attack.

And a 32-year-old Polish-born friend of Anto, who had arrived with a second
pizza delivery at the same time, was hit seven times. He was in a critical
condition last night.

The South Antrim brigade of the Real IRA last night claimed responsibility for
the grisly double murder.

The dissident Republican group contacted the Dublin offices of a Sunday
newspaper and used a recognised codeword to verify its claim.

Just last month, sources close to the terror group had warned Real IRA thugs
were planning a high-profile murder, kidnap or beating to reignite hostilities
in the North.

A friend of local lad Anthony's said: "Anto is going to be okay.

"He has been talking about what happened to his family.

"They've been with him at the Royal Victoria Hospital in Belfast since they
found out.

"He said the soldiers shouted for them to 'get down' before he even knew what
was happening.

"Then one of the soldiers just threw himself on top of him as the bullets were
still firing.

"The guy with the gun then just walked over and executed him as he lay on top of
Anto." He said his pal, who was hit in the stomach, chest and shoulder, "felt
like he had been punched on the arm" when the shooting began.

"The first bullet just went straight through him," he said.

Anthony's mother Joyce, a cleaner at St Comgall's Primary School, was at his
hospital bedside yesterday with other relatives.

Police believe the dissidents knew the weekend night pizza routine at the
barracks in the centre of the town.

They waited until the troops came through the gates to pick up the food at
9.40pm. Three armed men emerged from the darkness, already firing their weapons,
from a Toyota Avensis parked close to the gate.

They approached and began shooting a second volley as all six victims lay
wounded on the ground. And they cruelly made sure that two of the hurt soldiers
would not live.

Guard

A security guard armed with a pistol was on duty at the barracks' sentry box at
the time.

It wasn't clear last night if he had witnessed the attack.

Yesterday the barracks was sealed off as police combed the area before removing
two bulletriddled delivery cars.

And cops were trawling through CCTV pictures in the hunt for the evil killers.

Police suspect the terrorists may have deliberately targeted the pizza men as
well as the soldiers.

Dissidents have warned in the past that anyone who co-operates in any way with
the army or police are "collaborators".

PSNI Chief Superintendent Williamson said: "This was an attempt at mass murder.
Two very young men lost their lives in a very callous and a very ruth- less
attack by terrorists who had no thought last night for anyone who was in the
vicinity.

"Indeed the attack took place at a time when two other young men, two civilians,
were delivering food to the Massereene Barracks.

"And it is clear that the terrorists not only wanted to kill soldiers who were
there but also to try to kill those two pizza delivery men."

He added: "The gunmen, having fired an initial volley of shots, moved forward
when people were on the ground and fired additional shots at those people on the
ground.

"So it was a very, very callous and very ruthless attack." The soldiers of the
38 Engineer Regiment were just minutes away from leaving for war-torn Helmand
province in Afghanistan.

Their flight departed in the early hours of yesterday with four empty seats.

Relatives

The names of the dead soldiers have been withheld until all their relatives have
been informed.

They are the first troops to be murdered in the North since Lance Bombardier
Stephen Restorick was killed by an IRA sniper 12 years ago. A car which may have
been used in the attack was found around 11pm, five miles from the scene of the
attack.

One sympathy card placed at the horror scene read: "Words can't express my
sorrow and the sickness I feel at how these people who call themselves human can
murder in cold blood innocent people doing a day's work."

Among those paying their respects was Massereene regimental chaplain Rev Philip
McCormack.

He said: "It's a very close-knit unit. People care a tremendous amount, they
spent weeks and months training and preparing (for Afghanistan) and so anything
like this will obviously have a profound impact.

"We will mourn and deal with this and then we will do our job." Visibly-upset
Antrim woman Barbara Benson told the Irish Sun: "The people who did this have
sickened everyone with a heart in Northern Ireland."

She said she had brought flowers to lay at the scene "to show support for these
young men and their poor families".

A spokesman for Domino's said the company was co-operating with the police
investigation and it had sent its condolences to the families of the dead
soldiers.

jason.johnson@the-sun.ie

Killers' fans gloat online

SICK dissident republican fans celebrated online yesterday after the murder of
two British squaddies in Co Antrim.

Dozens of supporters of the killers logged on to congratulate them and urged:
"Keep them coming lads." The vile comments were made on a website which is
already being closely monitored by MI5 and the PSNI.

It's a known hangout of republican extremists.

The PSNI confirmed it monitors websites but will not say which ones are of
interest.

One security expert revealed: "The forum is one of about six republican websites
which are of interest to intelligence services.

"Last week it was the first to announce that dissidents claimed to have placed a
bomb under the car of a Northern Ireland Prison Service warden.

"That turned out to be a hoax, but the threat was real and caused a lot of alarm
among prison officers."

The source added that loyalist websites are also being closely watched.

New surge in RIRA strikes

THE Real IRA has proved the most lethal republican splinter group since the
Provisionals called a ceasefire.

With up to 200 members, it was created when Provo boss Mickey McKevitt quit over
the Peace Process.

It was forced to call a ceasefire in 1998 after its no-warning bomb killed 29
people in Omagh.

McKevitt was later jailed for directing terrorism but the RIRA resumed its
violence - attacking MI6 headquarters in 2000 and the BBC Television Centre in
2001.

In August 2002, it killed a civilian worker at a British Army base in Derry.

Until Saturday its attempts to kill police or soldiers all failed. But British
security bosses recently raised the attack alert to 'critical'.

A car bomb left abandoned last month in Castlewellan, Co Down contained a new
type of booby-trap device that almost killed British Army officers.

The PSNI also reported a surge in the targeting of Catholic officers who RIRA
fanatics view as 'collaborators'.

LOAD-DATE: March 10, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Clues ... cops hunt for evidence
Abandoned ... suspected getaway car found five miles from scene
Popular with soldiers ... Antrim shop which delivered the pizzas
Riddled with bullets ... cars sit outside gates to the Co Antrim barracks where
two young squaddies were killed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: SUN


                    Copyright 2009 NEWS GROUP NEWSPAPERS LTD
                              All Rights Reserved

                              462 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                               The Sun (England)

                              March 9, 2009 Monday
                                   Edition 1

EXECUTED BY COWARDS;
Two soldiers killed in Real IRA attack TERRORIST GUNMEN OPEN FIRE AT ARMY PIZZA
DELIVERY

BYLINE: JASON JOHNSON

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 4,5

LENGTH: 1216 words


TWO unarmed squaddies died as heroes when they tried to save the lives of two
pizza delivery men.

Four soldiers in desert fatigues came to greet the drivers at Massereene
Barracks in Antrim.

When dissident republican gunmen leapt out of a car firing automatic weapons,
they shouted for the two to "get down".

And one of the brave soldiers threw himself on top of 19-yearold Domino's
delivery man Anthony 'Anto' Watson to shield him from the bullets.

But the cowardly terrorist walked towards the squaddie, pointed his weapon
downwards and ruthlessly EXECUTED him at close range.

He was one of two soldiers, both aged in their early 20s, who died at the scene
on Saturday night.

Anto was hit three times and was in hospital last night after undergoing
surgery.

Two other squaddies were injured in the terrorist attack.

Critical

And a 32-year-old Polish-born man, who had arrived with a second pizza delivery
at the same time, was hit seven times.

He was in a critical condition last night.

The South Antrim brigade of the Real IRA last night claimed responsibility for
the grisly doublemurder.

The dissident Republican group contacted the Dublin offices of a Sunday
newspaper and used a recognised codeword to verify its claim.

Last month sources close to the terror group warned Real IRA thugs were planning
a high-profile murder, kidnapping or beating to reignite hostilities in Northern
Ireland.

A friend of local lad Anthony's said: "Anto is going to be okay.

"He has been talking about what happened to his family.

They've been with him at the Royal Victoria Hospital in Belfast since they found
out.

"He said the soldiers shouted for them to 'get down' before he even knew what
was happening.

"Then one of the soldiers just threw himself on top of him as the bullets were
still firing. And the guy with the gun then just walked over and executed him as
he lay on top of Anto."

He said his pal, who was hit in the stomach, chest and shoulder, "felt like he
had been punched on the arm" when the shooting began.

"The first bullet just went straight through him," he said.

Police believe the dissidents knew the weekend night pizza routine at the
barracks in the centre of the town.

They waited until the troops came through the gates to pick up the food at
9.40pm.

Three armed men emerged from the darkness, already firing their weapons, from a
Toyota Avensis parked close to the gate.

They approached and began shooting a second volley as all six victims lay
wounded on the ground. And they cruelly made sure that two of the hurt soldiers
would not live.

Pistol

A security guard, armed with a pistol, was on duty at the barracks' sentry box
at the time.

It wasn't clear last night if he had witnessed the attack.

Yesterday the barracks was sealed off as police combed the area before removing
two bulletriddled delivery cars.

And cops were trawling through CCTV pictures in the hunt for the evil killers.

Police suspect the terrorists may have deliberately targeted the pizza men as
well as the soldiers.

Dissidents have warned in the past that anyone who co-operates in any way with
the army or police are "collaborators".

PSNI Chief Superintendent Williamson said: "This was an attempt at mass murder.

"Two very young men lost their lives in a very callous and a very ruthless
attack by terrorists who had no thought last night for any- one who was in the
vicinity. Indeed the attack took place at a time when two other young men, two
civilians, who were delivering pizzas to the Massereene Barracks stopped.

"And it is clear that the terrorists not only wanted to kill soldiers who were
there but also to try to kill those two pizza delivery men."

He added: "The gunmen, having fired an initial volley of shots, moved forward
when people were on the ground and fired additional shots at those people on the
ground.

"So it was a very, very callous and very ruthless attack." The soldiers of the
38 Engineer Regiment were in high-spirits and just minutes away from leaving for
wartorn Helmand province in Afghanistan.

Their flight from RAF Aldergrove departed with four empty seats.

Murdered

The names of the dead soldiers have been withheld until all their relatives have
been informed.

They are the first troops to be murdered in Northern Ireland since Lance
Bombardier Stephen Restorick was killed by an IRA sniper 12 years ago.A car
which may have been used in the attack was found around 11pm in Randalstown,
five miles from the attack.

One sympathy card placed at the horror scene read: "Words can't express my
sorrow and the sickness I feel at how these people who call themselves human can
murder in cold blood innocent people doing a day's work."

Among those paying their respects was Massereene regimental chaplain Rev Philip
McCormack.

He said: "It's a very close-knit unit. People care a tremendous amount, they
spent weeks and months training and preparing (for Afghanistan) and so anything
like this will obviously have a profound impact.

"We will mourn and deal with this and then we will do our job."

Visibly-upset Antrim woman Barbara Benson told the Irish Sun: "The people who
did this have sickened everyone with a heart in Northern Ireland."

She said she had brought flowers to lay at the scene "to show support for these
young men and their poor families".

A spokesman for Domino's said the company was co-operating with the police
investigation and it had sent its condolences to the families of the dead
soldiers.

jason.johnson@the-sun.co.uk

Killers' fans gloat online

SICK dissident republican fans celebrated online yesterday after the murder of
two squaddies in Co Antrim.

Dozens of supporters of the killers logged on to congratulate them and urged:
"Keep them coming lads."

The vile comments were made on a website which is already being closely
monitored by MI5 and the PSNI.

It is a known hangout of republican extremists.

The PSNI confirmed it monitors websites but will not say which ones are of
interest.

One security expert revealed: "The forum is one of about six republican websites
which are of interest to intelligence services.

"Last week it was the first to announce that dissidents claimed to have placed a
bomb under the car of a Northern Ireland Prison Service warden.

"That turned out to be a hoax, but the threat was real and caused a lot of alarm
among prison officers." The source added that loyalist websites are also being
closely watched.

New surge in RIRA strikes

THE Real IRA has proved the most lethal republican splinter group since the
Provisionals called a ceasefire.

With up to 200 members, it was created when Provo boss Mickey McKevitt quit over
the Peace Process.

It was forced to call a ceasefire in 1998 after its no-warning bomb killed 29
people in Omagh.

McKevitt was later jailed for directing terrorism but the RIRA resumed its
violence - attacking MI6 headquarters in 2000 and the BBC Television Centre in
2001.

In August 2002, it killed a civilian worker at a British Army base in Derry.

Until Saturday its attempts to kill police or soldiers all failed. But British
security bosses recently raised the attack alert to 'critical'.

A car bomb left abandoned last month in Castlewellan, Co Down contained a new
type of booby-trap device that almost killed British Army officers.

The PSNI also reported a surge in the targeting of Catholic officers who RIRA
fanatics view as 'collaborators'.

LOAD-DATE: March 10, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Clues ... cops hunt for evidence
Popular with soldiers . . . Antrim shop which delivered the pizzas
Abandoned . . . suspected getaway car found five miles from scene
Riddled with bullets . . . cars sit outside gates to the Co Antrim barracks
where two young squaddies were killed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: SUN


                    Copyright 2009 NEWS GROUP NEWSPAPERS LTD
                              All Rights Reserved

                              463 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                              Western Daily Press

                              March 9, 2009 Monday

Mum tells of terror after spate of arson attacks in one night;
Two 17-year-olds were arrested after a spate of arson attacks during which a
house in South Gloucestershire almost went up in flames.

SECTION: Pg. 7

LENGTH: 295 words


The attacks started in the early hours of Friday when a wheelie bin was set on
fire in Saxon Way, Bradley Stoke.

Within the next hour, three cars were set alight and other smaller fires
started.

Mother-of-two Sara Stocker was in shock after her house was damaged and her car
set alight.

Mrs Stocker, 41, woke up when her car horn was set off by the blaze.

She said: "I looked out of the front bedroom window and all I could see was a
mass of flames. It was very frightening.

"It must have been about 2am. I immediately dialled 999, but we couldn't get out
the front, the fire was that fierce, and the car had rolled forward and was
touching the house. So we went out the back and huddled in the garden."

The car, which was on the driveway of her home in The Beeches, Bradley Stoke, is
now a burned-out shell.

The flames also cracked two windows at the front of the house, melted the front
door and damaged the family's other car.

The fire service's Arson Task Force  carried out investigations in Stoke Meadows
on Friday, where a partially burned-out vehicle was on the drive of a house at
the far end of the road.

A fire-damaged car was also reported in nearby Winsbury Way.

A pile of rubbish, possibly used to start the blaze, could be seen underneath
the vehicle.

Police say they deployed a large number of officers to the area during the
incidents.

The helicopter of the Western Counties Air Operation Unit was also involved from
2.30am.

The two men were arrested just after 3am and were detained for questioning.

Superintendent Tony Oliver, of Avon and Somerset police, said: "We saturated the
area with as many resources as we could."

"We effectively put a cordon around Bradley Stoke and then gradually closed it
in.

"Incidents like this in Bradley Stoke are exceptionally rare."

LOAD-DATE: June 11, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: 36


                      Copyright 2009 Bristol United Press
                              All Rights Reserved

                              464 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                              Western Daily Press

                              March 9, 2009 Monday

Mum tells of terror after spate of arson attacks in one night;
Two 17-year-olds were arrested after a spate of arson attacks during which a
house in South Gloucestershire almost went up in flames.

SECTION: Pg. 7

LENGTH: 295 words


The attacks started in the early hours of Friday when a wheelie bin was set on
fire in Saxon Way, Bradley Stoke.

Within the next hour, three cars were set alight and other smaller fires
started.

Mother-of-two Sara Stocker was in shock after her house was damaged and her car
set alight.

Mrs Stocker, 41, woke up when her car horn was set off by the blaze.

She said: "I looked out of the front bedroom window and all I could see was a
mass of flames. It was very frightening.

"It must have been about 2am. I immediately dialled 999, but we couldn't get out
the front, the fire was that fierce, and the car had rolled forward and was
touching the house. So we went out the back and huddled in the garden."

The car, which was on the driveway of her home in The Beeches, Bradley Stoke, is
now a burned-out shell.

The flames also cracked two windows at the front of the house, melted the front
door and damaged the family's other car.

The fire service's Arson Task Force  carried out investigations in Stoke Meadows
on Friday, where a partially burned-out vehicle was on the drive of a house at
the far end of the road.

A fire-damaged car was also reported in nearby Winsbury Way.

A pile of rubbish, possibly used to start the blaze, could be seen underneath
the vehicle.

Police say they deployed a large number of officers to the area during the
incidents.

The helicopter of the Western Counties Air Operation Unit was also involved from
2.30am.

The two men were arrested just after 3am and were detained for questioning.

Superintendent Tony Oliver, of Avon and Somerset police, said: "We saturated the
area with as many resources as we could."

"We effectively put a cordon around Bradley Stoke and then gradually closed it
in.

"Incidents like this in Bradley Stoke are exceptionally rare."

LOAD-DATE: August 21, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: 36


                      Copyright 2009 Bristol United Press
                              All Rights Reserved

                              465 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                              Western Daily Press

                              March 9, 2009 Monday

Mum tells of terror after spate of arson attacks in one night;
Two 17-year-olds were arrested after a spate of arson attacks during which a
house in South Gloucestershire almost went up in flames.

SECTION: Pg. 7

LENGTH: 295 words


The attacks started in the early hours of Friday when a wheelie bin was set on
fire in Saxon Way, Bradley Stoke.

Within the next hour, three cars were set alight and other smaller fires
started.

Mother-of-two Sara Stocker was in shock after her house was damaged and her car
set alight.

Mrs Stocker, 41, woke up when her car horn was set off by the blaze.

She said: "I looked out of the front bedroom window and all I could see was a
mass of flames. It was very frightening.

"It must have been about 2am. I immediately dialled 999, but we couldn't get out
the front, the fire was that fierce, and the car had rolled forward and was
touching the house. So we went out the back and huddled in the garden."

The car, which was on the driveway of her home in The Beeches, Bradley Stoke, is
now a burned-out shell.

The flames also cracked two windows at the front of the house, melted the front
door and damaged the family's other car.

The fire service's Arson Task Force  carried out investigations in Stoke Meadows
on Friday, where a partially burned-out vehicle was on the drive of a house at
the far end of the road.

A fire-damaged car was also reported in nearby Winsbury Way.

A pile of rubbish, possibly used to start the blaze, could be seen underneath
the vehicle.

Police say they deployed a large number of officers to the area during the
incidents.

The helicopter of the Western Counties Air Operation Unit was also involved from
2.30am.

The two men were arrested just after 3am and were detained for questioning.

Superintendent Tony Oliver, of Avon and Somerset police, said: "We saturated the
area with as many resources as we could."

"We effectively put a cordon around Bradley Stoke and then gradually closed it
in.

"Incidents like this in Bradley Stoke are exceptionally rare."

LOAD-DATE: March 10, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: 36


                      Copyright 2009 Bristol United Press
                              All Rights Reserved

                              466 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                  The Northern Echo (Newsquest Regional Press)

                             March 10, 2009 Tuesday

Policeman shot dead in second terrorist attack

BYLINE: Andrew Douglas

SECTION: REGIONAL (NORTHERNECHO NEWS)

LENGTH: 377 words


A POLICEMAN has been shot dead in what is being described as an "evil deed" by
"terrorists" in Northern Ireland.

The dead police officer was gunned down as he and a colleague investigated a
call for help from a vulnerable person in the Lismore Manor area of Craigavon,
Co Armagh, at about 9.45pm last night.

He was named as Constable Stephen Carroll, 48, from Banbridge, Co Down.

He became the first member of the new Police Service of Northern Ireland to be
shot dead on duty.

The murder prompted rank and file police representatives to call for an urgent
security review after the officer became the third victim in as many days of a
new campaign of violence in Northern Ireland blamed on dissident Irish
republicans.

The dissident republican Continuity IRA claimed responsibility today for the
murder.

The Real IRA, another dissident group, claimed responsibility for the shooting
dead of two soldiers outside the front gates of Massereene Military barracks in
Co Antrim on Saturday night.

Last night, as the officers got out of one of the vehicles, gunmen who had been
lying in wait opened fire. There were unconfirmed reports that another officer
was injured.

The killing came as tributes continue to pour in following the murders at
Massereene Barracks.

Northern Ireland's First Minister Peter Robinson said: "This officer was serving
his community at the time of the incident. I unreservedly condemn this evil
deed.

"I am sickened at the attempts by terrorists to destabilise Northern Ireland.
Those responsible for this murderous act will not be allowed to drag our
Province back to the past."

Sir Hugh said the dead officer was going to the aid of a terrified woman when he
was shot.

He added: "Let me be very clear. This will not put off me or my officers
delivering the service we do to the communities we paid to protect. That will
continue unrelenting as it has done in the threat that we have been facing for
nine to 12 months."

Northern Ireland Secretary Shaun Woodward said: "Those few who committed these
cowardly crimes have shown they have the capacity for evil acts but they don't
have the capacity to undermine the peace process and the firm political
progress."

Alex Maskey, a Sinn Fein Policing Board member, said the murder was "yet another
awful tragedy".

LOAD-DATE: March 10, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2009 NewsQuest Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              467 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                               The Times (London)

                             March 10, 2009 Tuesday
                                   Edition 1

'Mastermind' of cricket terrorist attack escapes as police raid his home at dawn

BYLINE: Zahid Hussain;Tim Reid;Jeremy Page

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 31

LENGTH: 961 words


The man suspected of being the mastermind behind last week's attack on the Sri
Lanka cricket team escaped a police raid on his home in a village in northern
Pakistan yesterday, security sources have told The Times.

They identified him as Mohammed Aqeel, a member of the banned Islamic militant
group Lashkar-e- Jhangvi (LeJ), which has close links to al-Qaeda and has been
active in Kashmir and Afghanistan.

Mr Aqeel fled his home in Khauta district, about 30 miles from Islamabad, the
capital, before the raid, the sources said.

One of his associates, identified only by the name of Talat, was arrested, the
sources said, without giving any further details about Mr Aqeel or Mr Talat.

The sources said they feared that the rest of the 12 gunmen who attacked the Sri
Lankans' convoy on Tuesday had fled to Pakistan's northern tribal areas, from
where al-Qaeda and Taleban militants operate.

Pakistan has suffered many terror attacks in recent years but last week's was
especially shocking as it was aimed at cricket - a national obsession - and used
roving commandostyle gunmen rather than suicide bombers.

Pakistani officials said initially that the attack bore the hallmarks of

Lashkar-e-Taiba, the Pakistani militant group blamed for the attack on Mumbai in
November. Security sources have since said that they suspect it was the work of
LeJ and Jaish-e-Mohammed, another banned militant group with close links to
al-Qaeda and a history of action in Kashmir and Afghanistan.

Last week police released sketches of four of the gunmen and detained dozens of
suspects - most of whom belonged to LeJ and JeM - in raids across Pakistan's
eastern province of Punjab. The two groups have been involved in most of the
terrorist attacks inside Pakistan since it joined the US-led War on Terror in
2001.

They operate mainly from the tribal areas but have expanded their influence in
southern Punjab in recent years, drawing recruits from among the rural poor, as
well as British Muslims of Pakistani origin. Most of the Mumbai gunmen were from
southern Punjab.

Rashid Rauf, a British Pakistani who was a key suspect in the 2006 plot to blow
up transatlantic passenger flights taking off from Heathrow, was trained in JeM
camps.

Pakistani security officials now say that some groups like LeJ and JeM appear to
have mutated into small cells and are working as extensions of al-Qaeda.
Pakistan's Government insists it is doing all it can to crack down on such
organisations and even offered to co-operate with Interpol this weekend in
providing DNA samples of suspects in the Mumbai attack.

Many US, British and Indian officials say, however, that Pakistan is reluctant
to take firm action against militant groups because of their past and, in some
cases, current links to the Inter-Services Intelligence agency.

Daniel Markey, a former senior South Asia State Department official under
President Bush, told The Times that co-operation from Pakistan was sketchy in
the aftermath of the Mumbai terror attack.

"It appears there are divisions within the Pakistani intelligence and security
forces over whether and how to approach terrorism and how to do it with groups
who have long enjoyed active or passive support of Pakistani institutions.

"What you are seeing are sharply different responses between different Pakistani
agencies - none are sufficient and some are positively bad." US officials are
particular concerned about LeT, which Pakistani and Western intelligence
agencies say has trained thousands of Pakistanis in its camps and now has the
potential to reach all over the world.

The Los Angeles Times reported that Pakistan's Government had undermined US
efforts to identify and thwart LeT militants who are believed to have a strong
presence in the US.

Robert S. Mueller III, the FBI Director, visited Islamabad last week to press,
in part, for better co-operation after the Mumbai attacks.

The FBI and other US officials have been denied access to about 20 LeT members,
including about six senior officials suspected of heading its global operations
and fundraising. Senior FBI officials confirmed that Pakistan dragged its heels
for 16 months in the investigation into the 2006 airline plot by denying access
to Rauf despite Mr Mueller's personal appeals, it said.

Rauf escaped from a Pakistani jail in mysterious circumstances in December 2007
and was reported killed by a US missile in November last year.

British officials have made similar complaints. Pakistani officials deny
dragging their feet in joint terror investigations.

"It was because of our tip that Britain has been able to break terror networks,"
one official said.

Armies of terror

Jaish-e-Mohammed or Army of Mohammed is dedicated to overthrowing Indian control
in Kashmir and integrating the province into Pakistan. It was banned by former
President Musharraf after its involvement in the attack on India's parliament
building in 2001, which brought the two countries to the brink of war

Like Lashkar-e-Jhangvi, Jaish-e-Mohammed has significant links with al-Qaeda.
Soon after his release from prison in India in 2000, its leader, Maulana Masood
Azhar, travelled to Afghanistan to meet Osama bin Laden. The group is believed
to have received large amounts of funding from al-Qaeda

The group came to the attention of the international community after a suicide
attack in Kashmir's summer capital of Srinagar left 38 people dead in October
2001. The attack, less than a month after the September 11 attacks, prompted the
US to ban Jaish-e-Mohammed and later add it to the State Department's list of
terrorist organisations. Members of the group were also involved in the 2007 Red
Mosque siege in Islamabad

Sources: Times database, Centre for Defence Information

'Pakistan is divided over whether and how to approach terrorism'

LOAD-DATE: March 10, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Pakistani police escort Hafiz Saeed, founder of Lashkar-e-Taiba, from
court in Lahore yesterday. India says the group is responsible for the Mumbai
attacks
ARIF ALI / AFP / GETTY

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: TIM


                    Copyright 2009 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              468 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                                The Western Mail

                            March 11, 2009 Wednesday
                                 First Edition

Charges are 'badges of honour' for five terrorists pleadingguilty to 9/11 attack
;
guilty to 9/11 attack

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 266 words


FIVE men charged over the September 11 attacks have said they wear the
accusation like "badges of honour" and are "terrorists to the bone".

The Guantanamo Bay detainees - including so-called 9/11 mastermind Khalid Sheikh
Mohammed - made the comments in a six-page court document released today by the
Pentagon.

The five have previously indicated that they intend to plead guilty to charges
of murder in front of military court hearings, which have been suspended by
President Barack Obama while a review of procedures takes place.

In the document released yesterday, the men attempt to justify the attacks in
the US that killed almost 3,000.

It makes reference to the shooting down of an Iranian jet byaUS warship in 1988
and the bombings of Hiroshima and Nagasaki.

"Does your blood have a value and the blood of Muslims not?" it asks.

If found guilty of the charges against them, the five men could face the death
penalty.

The trial is likely to take place under a different legal system than the widely
criticised military commissions of the Bush administration.

And with the planned closure of Guantanamo Bay, it is expected that future
hearings will take place away from the controversial base.

Referring to the charges, the document states: "With regards to these nine
accusations that you are putting us on trial for, to us, they are not
accusations. To us they are badges of honour, which we carry with pride."

It continues: "Our religion is a religion of fear and terror to the enemies of
God: the Jews, Christians, and pagans. With God's willing, we are terrorists to
the bone."

LOAD-DATE: March 11, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                    Copyright 2009 Western Mail and Echo Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                              469 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                    BBC Monitoring Asia Pacific - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                            March 12, 2009 Thursday

China condemns terror attack on Sri Lanka mosque - spokesman

LENGTH: 92 words


Text of report in English by official Chinese news agency Xinhua (New China News
Agency)

BEIJING, March 12 (Xinhua) - China on Thursday condemned a suicide bombing near
a mosque in Sri Lanka.

"We extend our deep condolences to the victims and the injured," said Chinese
Foreign Ministry spokesman Ma Zhaoxu at a regular press conference.

A suicide bomber attacked the Jumma mosque at Godapitiya, in Akurassa,in the
Matara district, about 160 km south of the capital Colombo on Tuesday morning.

Source: Xinhua news agency, Beijing, in English 0835 gmt 12 Mar 09

LOAD-DATE: March 12, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2009 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              470 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                                The Bolton News

                            March 12, 2009 Thursday

Woman tells of attack terror

BYLINE: Gaynor Clarke

SECTION: BOLTON NEWS (BOLTON NEWS)

LENGTH: 198 words


A WOMAN attacked by yobs in Little Hulton says she is too scared to leave her
home.

The 33-year-old woman, who has asked not to be named for fear of reprisals from
her attackers, was assaulted by two men as she walked in the street.

As reported in yesterday's The Bolton News she was attacked from behind by two
men while walking the short distance along Manchester Road East.

They punched her three times in the face and laughed as she fell to the ground,
banging her face on the pavement.

She said: "There was no-one around and I didn't see where they came from. I
didn't even see the men, so I have no idea what they look like."

The woman, who lives in Little Hulton, managed to stagger to the New Inn for
help.

Staff there contacted her boyfriend, who took her to the Royal Bolton Hospital
for treatment.

As a result of the attack, she is now too scared to leave her home.

She said: "I've walked around in that area at night before and nothing like this
has ever happened. I'm not going out now because I'm worried that it could
happen again. I'm really scared."

Police are appealing for anyone with information about the incident to contact
them on 0161 856 5351 or Crimestoppers on 0800 555 111.

LOAD-DATE: March 12, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2009 NewsQuest Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              471 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                            The Independent (London)

                            March 12, 2009 Thursday
                                 First Edition

Ulster stands united in silent appeal for peace;
Thousands join lunchtime vigils to remember three latest victims of terror Pope
denounces 'abominable' attacks and supports political process

BYLINE: Kim Sengupta IN COUNTY ARMAGH

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 888 words


They came in their thousands to stand in silence. A homage to the members of the
security forces whose murders have threatened to push Northern Ireland back to
the dark days of violence.

It was also, said many of those who attended, a public statement that a
community which has been so fractured in the past by communal strife now stands
united against the men with the guns and the bombs. The gains made in the years
of peace must not be allowed to be squandered.

The gatherings took place in Belfast, Londonderry, Newry, Downpatrick, and
Lisburn, and in Craigavon where Constable Stephen Carroll was murdered, the
third member of the security forces to die in three days.

There was also a vigil, in solidarity, by MPs outside Westminster and support
from the Prime Minister. And, addressing pilgrims at St Peter's Square the Pope
denounced the killings as "abominable attacks of terrorism" which were
threatening the political process "aimed at achieving justice and peace".

The crowds gathered outside Belfast City Hall observed a minute's silence in
memory of the security forces killed in separate attacks by dissident
republicans. After a piper played "Abide With Me", the trade union leader John
Corey told the rally that the public rejected any return of violence. "The trade
union movement has always stood for peace," he said. "For this movement, no
political cause in Northern Ireland justifies violence of any kind."

He said the Irish Congress of Trades Unions and the wider community stood
shoulder-to-shoulder with political leaders at Stormont who had presented a
united front against the gunmen. He added: "So we show the world that is now
watching, that the people of Northern Ireland absolutely and totally reject
those that carried out those brutal crimes against humanity."

The same message was delivered by Gordon Brown in the House of Commons and by
the Taoiseach Brian Cowen in Dublin. Mr Brown told MPs: "The peace marches today
on the streets of Northern Ireland show what I saw in Northern Ireland on Monday
and what we are seeing right across the country.

"The unity against violence of the people and their representatives; the
defiance and the determination to stand up to the evil and criminal violence;
and the unyielding resolution to say with one voice that the peace that the
people of Northern Ireland are building no murderers should ever be allowed to
destroy."

Mr Cowen told the Dail: "Those institutions are being challenged by a tiny and
unrepresentative group of evil people who have no mandate and no support for
their actions. Their actions are futile. They cannot succeed and they will not
succeed."

In Belfast, Susan Francis, 54, had taken along her six-year-old grandson Matthew
to the rally. "I don't want this wee boy to grow up in the kind of society we
had in the past, where people's lives were ruined by pointless fighting," she
said. "But my fear is that these violent men are determined and they will drag
us back. A lot of people fear that."

Ann Robb came from Portadown to lay a bouquet of spring flowers where PC Carroll
had fallen. Then she quietly recalled her own loss, that of her 19-year-old son
Andrew and his friend David Robb, also 19, who were found dead on a roadside
from beatings and stabbings - casualties, it is believed, of a feud between two
Protestant groups, the UVF and the LVF.

In Portadown, there was no protest - although that was a good sign, as the
annual Drumcree march through the town had been one of the controversial
flashpoints during the time of sectarian strife. Moreen Stephenson, who runs
guest houses in the area, said: "When I heard about the killings I thought 'oh
no, here we go again'. That was the feeling of most people around here. This
vigil [in Belfast] is very important - it shows how ordinary people feel.''

At the town centre, however, the mood among some was sombre. "We have stopped
the attempt to follow our lawful route on the march in the interest of peace,''
said Robert Wilson. "But 10 years on you still have these republican terrorists
attacking our soldiers and policemen. People are losing patience, and if this
continues I fear there will be retaliation."

Comments

From the Belfast Telegraph blog

* AD

Just been at [the] silent protest at city hall. It was good to see so many turn
up. The only thing these cowardly killers have done is unite all sections of the
community, and reaffirm our desire to move forward in a peaceful manner without
the days of old. I say turn our backs on these cowards and show them they cannot
deviate us, stand up and say no to their terror. Once we may have been afraid,
but not any more.

* Ann Boal

To Constable Connor's family: I know what you are going through. I am from a
proud police background, my own father was injured in a booby trap bomb in 1981
which killed a young officer of 23. I thought the days of police funerals were
past and here we are again. God Bless you, be proud.

* Barry Joyce

Whether the victim is a soldier, policeman, or civilian. Whether they are
Catholic, Protestant, republican or loyalist, this atrocity brings shame to the
whole island. All of us, north and south, should stand together in condemning
these outrages, and bringing the perpetrators to justice. There should be no
place for those who would use terror and fear to obtain their ends.

LEADING ARTICLE, PAGE 30

LOAD-DATE: March 12, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: IA


                      Copyright 2009 Independent Print Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                              472 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                             Lancaster Evening Post

                            March 12, 2009 Thursday

House raid terror attack appeal

BYLINE: Stef Hall, Crime Reporter

LENGTH: 256 words



HIGHLIGHT: A raider wearing a motorcycle helmet smashed a woman's head on the
floor in her own home during a robbery.


The 40-year-old victim, who lives in The Crescent, Freckleton, with her partner,
suffered facial injuries in the attack which happened when she was home alone.It
is hoped planespotters, who were frequenting the area to watch military jets
take off and land at nearby Warton aerodrome, could hold vital clues that could
help catch the criminal.The robber is believed to have approached the house from
the direction of Naze Lane East and knocked on the woman's door between 12.15pm
and 12.30pm on Wednesday.Police have released CCTV images of him approaching the
front door.The man banged the woman's head on the floor and demanded cash and
jewellery.He then fled with a large cream-coloured safe containing personal
papers and some jewellery. He made his getaway in the direction of Naze Lane
East.Detectives are appealing for anyone who was in the area at the time who may
have seen someone acting suspiciously either on foot, in a vehicle or a
motorbike to contact them.Det Sgt Rebecca Smith said: "This was an appalling
attack on a lone woman in her own home.

I am determined to bring the person responsible to justice."This incident
occurred in daylight when many people would have been going about their usual
daily business."The robber is described as white, 6ft tall, wearing a yellow
fluorescent jacket, dark camouflage-coloured combat trousers and a dark coloured
motorcycle helmet.Anyone with information is asked to call Blackpool police on
01253 293933 or Crimestoppers, anonymously, on 0800 555 111.>> Vote in our
latest web poll

LOAD-DATE: April 23, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: PRES


                       Copyright 2009 Johnston Press Plc
                              All Rights Reserved

                              473 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                            Nottingham Evening Post

                            March 12, 2009 Thursday

Terror attack hit lace centre

SECTION: Pg. 20

LENGTH: 145 words


The 9/11 terrorist attack on America was a turning point for the Lace Centre.

Manager Linda Hopkin said the volume of wealthy American and Japanese tourists,
who used to spend hundreds of pounds on lace gifts, slowed to a trickle.

But the Lace Centre continues to attract home and oversea visitors.

Two German fine arts students Wibke Scharpeuberg, 24, and Hannah  Gritsch, 25,
described the lace on view at the centre as "really beautiful."

Miss Ann Drinkwater, of Lenton, said: "I am very sorry the centre is closing and
I hope they will do something suitable with the building.

"I remember Severns when it was on Middle Pavement."

Isabel Proctor, 22, who comes from Newark, visited the centre as part of her
studies in footwear design at Leicester's De Montfort University.

She said: "It's a lovely traditional building to house the historic displays and
high quality products."

LOAD-DATE: August 21, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: 48


                     Copyright 2009 Nottingham Evening Post
                              All Rights Reserved

                              474 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                          Press Association Mediapoint

                      March 12, 2009 Thursday 2:46 AM BST

FIRE SERVICES 'NOT READY FOR MAJOR TERROR ATTACK'

BYLINE: James Tapsfield, Press Association Political Correspondent

SECTION: HOME NEWS

LENGTH: 404 words


Fire services are not properly prepared to deal with a major terrorist attack or
disaster, an influential group of MPs warned today.

Staff are ``confused'' about who can order emergency equipment to be deployed,
and records of resources are inadequate, according to the Public Accounts
Committee.

The MPs also condemned management of the £330 million project designed to bring
the response up to scratch in England, saying it had been left vulnerable to an
£867,000 fraud and overspent on consultants.

The criticisms came in a report into the New Dimension improvement programme,
which was put in place by the Government in the wake of the September 11 attacks
on the US in 2001.

The chairman of the committee, Edward Leigh, said the capabilities brought by
the scheme were welcome, and had proved useful for incidents such as the floods
of summer 2007.

But the Tory MP for Gainsborough said there were many areas where the Department
for Communities and Local Government (DCLG) needed to ``get a grip''.

``There is no comprehensive data on the availability of New Dimension and other
equipment across the country,'' he said.

``The department is also less than fully informed about the skills available
among firefighters in all Fire and Rescue services to operate the new kit.

``The command and control arrangements are uncertain, with an unacceptable level
of confusion among local Fire and Rescue services about who makes the decision
to deploy the equipment.

``And many Fire and Rescue Services are remiss at planning for catastrophic
incidents, especially at a regional or national scale.

``The DCLG must get a grip on all of this so that, if there is a catastrophic
incident, a well-planned and co-ordinated fire and rescue operation can play its
proper part in the overall emergency service response.

``It is not comfortable to contemplate the alternative.''

The committee found that up until 2005, the procurement of new vehicles and
equipment was conducted ``poorly''. In 2004, ``weak financial controls'' allowed
a £867,200 fraud by a member of DCLG staff to remain undetected for nine months,
and only £160,000 of that money was later recovered.

Some £12 million was spent in the last four years on consultants who ``helped
turn the project around'', according to the MPs. However, ``weak oversight led
to costs in excess of those contracted for and the expected skills transfer to
Departmental staff took longer than expected''.

LOAD-DATE: March 12, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newswire


                  Copyright 2009 The Press Association Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              475 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring South Asia - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                             March 13, 2009 Friday

Pakistan official warns of terror attacks during protest march

LENGTH: 848 words


Text of report by official news agency Associated Press of Pakistan (APP)

Islamabad, 12 March: Adviser to the Prime Minister on Interior, Rehman Malik
Thursday [12 March] warned of threats of terrorist attack during long march and
asked political leadership not to expose themselves to these threats.

"We have intelligence reports that terrorist and enemies of the country may
benefit from this situation and there can be act of terrorism and target
killing," he said in a statement in the Senate.

The Adviser informed that he had written to Punjab government for maximum
security for Sharif brothers and read out contents of the letter on the floor of
the House.

"Given the prevalent security situation in the country and keeping in view
intensive public exposure of Mian Muhammad Nawaz Sharif, former Prime Minister
of Pakistan and Mian Muhammad Shahbaz Sharif, former Chief Minister of Punjab,
it has become extremely imperative to ensure fool proof security of the two
leaders," he said quoting the language of the letter.

"Needless to emphasize that political leadership of the country remains under
perpetual threat of terrorist attacks which warrants for safe security
arrangements to avert any such untoward occurrence," Malik said.

He further stated all provincial governments are urged to ensure foolproof
security for Mian Muhammad Nawaz Sharif and Mian Muhammad Shahbaz Sharif, in
their respective areas of jurisdiction.

Giving details, he said, besides all conceivable security measures, Sharif
brothers should be ensured provision of a bullet proof vehicle, box formation
escort during their movement ensuring that the dignitaries vehicle is covered by
escort vehicles on all the four sides, provision of bullet proof rostrum during
address, jammers in working condition must always accompany the two leaders and
intensive and elaborate, security arrangements at the place of public meeting,
residence and during movement for their safety.

He said since safety and security of the political leadership is provincial
responsibility, it is expected that respective provincial governments would
leave no stone unturned to ensure safety of the two PML (N) leaders.

He said security agencies have also been directed that any information regarding
threat to Mian Muhammad Nawaz Sharif and Mian Muhammad Shahbaz Sharif should
promptly be shared with the Provincial government under intimation to the
Ministry of Interior.

Recalling the past, Malik mentioned to the reconciliation process that had
started from London and culminated on Charter of Democracy and said, it was a
great effort for restoration of democracy in the country.

He said a magisterial inquiry has been ordered into the arrest and raid on the
house of Senator Raja Zafarul Haq as it was conducted despite categorical
instruction that no members of the Parliament would be arrested or detained.

"I immediately took action after receiving the information about raids on Raja
Zafarul Haq and Zafar Ali Shah's houses," he informed the House and said, report
on these incidents would be presented to the House. The Adviser said, "we do not
want to stop long march but we and lawyers differ on its modalities. A committee
of officers was constituted to take up the matter with lawyers about the venue.
But, they insisted to protest on Constitution Avenue."

Malik said, the government has given an undertaking to diplomatic community that
Constitution Avenue will not be used for long march and sit-in.

"Country is already facing terrorism challenge. In this situation what message
we want to convey to international community and investors by ransacking the
capital," he said.

Malik said he had offered different venues to lawyers like one in G-11 and other
near Aabpara, but they refused. "I had also proposed them to select five to ten
members from each community and stage sit-in and hand over memorandum."

He said number of people from business community, civil society and the Chamber
have repeatedly asked me to stop them from long marching and staging sit-in in
the capital.

He said he had requested to the Speaker the other day to constitute a House
committee to sort out modalities with the lawyers for long march and sit-in and
I request it to the Chairman also.

"We have told them that protest is their right but we will not allow disturbance
and taking law into their hands. Peace is very important for the country and we
should not repeat follies of the past," he added.

He paid tribute to late Benazir Bhutto, President Zardari, Prime Minister
Gillani for struggle to restore democracy and said, even after the court
decision, President Zardari sent messages for reconciliation through Maulana
Fazlur Rehman and Asfandyar Wali but to no avail.

He said all parties are patriotic and he calls upon them to seek a solution to
the prevailing situation and promote harmony.

He urged to strengthen institutions to defeat terrorism and said, "We need to
set good examples. We need to be united and let us go towards consensus than to
polarization."

Source: Associated Press of Pakistan news agency, Islamabad, in English 1453gmt
12 Mar 09

LOAD-DATE: March 13, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2009 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              476 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                 The Spectator

                                 March 14, 2009

We are not ready for an escalation of violence in Ulster;
Dean Godson says that this week's murders have yielded impressive displays of
cross-party unity. But they also draw attention to Northern Ireland's
vulnerability to terrorist attack, and the risks that were always inherent in
the dismantling of the Province's security structure

BYLINE: Dean Godson

SECTION: Pg. 12

LENGTH: 1967 words


'After they die, they will be forgotten, just as the policemen and soldiers who
died are forgotten after a while, except by those who loved them.' So said
Florence Cobb, widow of RUC Inspector Harry Cobb, murdered in Lurgan by the
Provisional IRA in 1977. I recalled those simple but powerful words when I heard
that Constable Stephen Paul Carroll had been murdered by dissident Republicans
on Monday night - just five miles away in Craigavon, Co. Armagh.

I had a horrible sense of déjà vu - not just about the murders themselves, but
also about the near uniform reaction to them. I can remember a time when there
was a consensus about the wickedness of murdering RUC officers - save among
Republicans, whose electoral support was anyhow negligible in the pre-Hunger
Strikes era. In other words, not too different to the dissidents of today.

Inspector Cobb never lived to see the force he died for altered beyond
recognition under the terms of the Good Friday Agreement - and the man who was
then convicted of his killing subsequently became a much respected member of the
Sinn Fein negotiating team. If past form is anything to go by, the indignation
of the political and official classes will blow over quickly enough.

But has the current power-sharing executive changed all that - with the DUP
First Minister Peter Robinson and the Sinn Fein Deputy First Minister Martin
McGuinness flanking the Chief Constable of the Police Service of Northern
Ireland, Sir Hugh Orde, in a remarkable display of cross-community solidarity?
McGuinness's description of the dissident Republicans as 'traitors' to the cause
of Ireland inevitably commanded the greatest attention. But in its own way,
Robinson's formulation was no less striking: 'This is a battle of wills between
the political class and the evil gunmen - the political class will win.' No
sentimentalism there about 'people power' winning the day - which formed so
prominent a part of Tony Blair's discourse after the Real IRA bombing of Omagh
in 1998. The Dutch political scientist Arend Lijphart - whose writings on
divided societies influenced the thinking of British and Irish officials during
the Troubles - would instantly have recognised this 'top-down' feature of the
current arrangements: the mutual accommodation of sectarian elites to 'manage' a
conflict that neither side can win on its own terms.

A key part of that, of course, is managing your own side. Thus, at the first
bilateral between David Trimble's Ulster Unionists and Sinn Fein in September
1998 - what a big deal that was then - McGuinness stated: 'It was Sinn Fein and
Republicans who stopped the Real IRA, not British or Irish legislation.' Can the
Adams-McGuinness generation of Republicans continue to do so - acting, as their
internal critics allege, as a kind of 'Next Steps Agency' for the British
government?

The British government, for the moment, is confident that Adams and McGuinness
can pull off this trick - at least so long as they continue to be given a
'narrative' to sell to their own tribe. Hence the haste with which it sought to
push the devolution of policing and justice to the Northern Ireland Assembly
through Parliament earlier this week. But the government also reckons that the
strength of McGuinness's condemnation has afforded Robinson enough space to push
ahead with devolution of policing and justice within his party and community -
subject to the usual caveats about timing and, of course, assuming there are no
more attacks.

The big question now is whether the dissidents can maintain the momentum. The
Joint Intelligence Committee recently discussed whether this was the start of a
major new campaign or the 'death rattle' of irredentist republicanism - and the
balance of opinion came down more on the side of the latter. Senior officials on
both sides of the Border reckon the dissidents might manage a few more attacks,
but are still very far from panicking. Neither the scale of the raids, nor the
technology employed, is yet deemed serious enough to warrant a major reversal of
security 'normalisation'.

Rather, the biggest problem for them is understanding the fissiparousness of the
command structures of the dissident organisations: in that sense, they are more
like the UDA than the Provisionals. In short, no one is quite so indelicate as
to employ the infamous phrase attributed to Reginald Maudling in the early years
of the Troubles - 'an acceptable level of violence'; but the spirit of the
former Conservative home secretary is alive and well in Whitehall.

After all, millions of pounds and much amour propre has been invested in
'demilitarisation' - including the civilianisation of the once heavily fortified
'police estate' (to be replaced by much touchier-feelier 'police shops'); single
officer patrolling; dramatic reductions in helicopter overflights; and the
pulling down of watch towers in republican strongholds. The greatest sin in the
eyes of the post Troubles mandarinate is 'overreaction' - which could push
nationalists into the arms of the dissidents.

On the face of it, times are not propitious for a renewed push for Irish unity:
the southern economy is in such dire shape that no 'Free Stater' could possibly
contemplate paying for the costs of integrating over a million and a half people
used to British levels of welfare payments. Tony Blair's prediction in his first
speech as Prime Minister, in Belfast in May 1997, is looking more plausible by
the minute: 'None of us in the hall today, even the youngest, is likely to see
Northern Ireland as anything but a part of the United Kingdom.' Viewed in the
round, optimists might say that even if these attacks continue for as long as
the Border Campaign of 1956-62, they will be just as futile - and will peter out
in ignominy. And co-operation between the Garda Siochana and the Police Service
of Northern Ireland has never been closer - personified by the visit of the
commissioner and deputy commissioner, Facthtna Murphy and Martin Callinan to
their PSNI counterparts in Belfast on Thursday. As far as the British are
concerned, any failings by the government of the Republic relates to lack of
resources, not lack of will on the part of the Garda.

So much for the credit side of the ledger.

But what of the debit column? Senior security officials state that they never
thought they would live to see the day when they miss the presence of Brian
Keenan, one of the Provisionals' most ruthless commanders, who died last May at
the age of 66. Despite his reputation as an irredeemable opponent of compromise,
Keenan was wedded to the Adams-McGuinness strategy. With his demise, opine
security sources, one of the last remaining restraints on a cadre of
Provisionals disillusioned with the political game at Stormont may have been
removed.

And which of them has or will gain access to the 'small quantities' of weapons
'held back by local groups in defiance of the instructions of their leaders' to
decommission - ominously alluded to in the remarks of the Leader of the Lords,
Lady Royall, in the statement on the killings in the Upper House?

No one doubted the supreme skill with which Adams and McGuinness finessed 'the
movement' after the Omagh massacre. But they were helped then by the near parity
in the casualty rates on that terrible day - almost exactly half Catholic, half
Protestant.

They were thus able to represent the Real IRA action as an attack on the entire
process - not just one section of the population - and so to distance themselves
from physical force republicanism.

Will they be able to continue in this vein if the bulk of the casualties are
inflicted upon either the hated British army or the PSNI? And now that it is
know that the slain policeman was a Catholic officer (albeit killed
'accidentally' in this instance) what will be the effect on Catholic recruitment
to the PSNI - running on target at 25 per cent of the force, and scheduled to
rise to 30 per cent by 2011? Will they go the way of the early Catholic recruits
to the Ulster Defence Regiment - which rose to around 25 per cent in the early
years of the Troubles, and then plummeted to 3.7 per cent in the face of
deliberate targeting by Republicans?

How will the post-Agreement security system stand up to sustained attack from a
renewed terrorist campaign? Sir Hugh Orde and the PSNI have earned much praise
in official quarters for stymying the growing number of dissident attacks in
recent years.

On his flying visit to Belfast, Gordon Brown vowed that the killers would be
brought to justice; Sir Hugh was more measured, merely pledging to leave no
stone unturned. For the Chief Constable knew he could give no such guarantee.

The PSNI feels that its efforts have not always been well rewarded by the
operation of the criminal justice system - not least the rules governing the
disclosure of prosecution materials to the defence. These are more exacting in
Northern Ireland than in the rest of the Kingdom; indeed, in its latest report
issued last November, the International Monitoring Commission suggested that the
Criminal Justice Inspectorate look at this issue in a future inquiry.

Above all, terrorist campaigns are won and lost through intelligence. But much
of the official culture of the new Northern Ireland is deeply hostile to one of
the key tools of the trade - informers. The Consultative Group of the Past - set
up by then Ulster secretary Peter Hain in 2007 under the leadership of the
former Church of Ireland Primate Lord Eames and Denis Bradley - is emblematic of
this approach.

'While the Group recognises that intelligence gathering is an integral part of
security activity, the sense of oppression was even further increased by the
numbers of people who were recruited by the state and induced to act as
informers, ' opine the theologians. 'The Group was told that a significant
number of such agents were recruited, many more than was imagined at the time.

Whatever service they did for the state, it was at a price to their own lives
and the selfesteem within their own community.' Senior officials are starting to
wonder whether this sniffy approach is really sustainable if the balloon goes up
once more.

Were too many senior Special Branch officers, especially agent handlers, let go
too quickly under the Patten report of 1999? Is it right that they be left to
face the music before a set of costly inquiries? And were too many informers let
go in the reviews of the early to middle years of this decade?

Will any intelligence officers take the same kind of risks for state security
that they did during the last round of Troubles?

Whitehall's greatest concern is that the security system will be further
stretched by yet another commitment. With the end of the Iraqi deployment in
sight, the army, for one, was looking forward to concentrating its efforts on a
single big commitment - Afghanistan. Now, if things get worse in Ulster, it will
at least have to think of relocating some of its resources back to the Province,
which it could well have done without. Nor, for political reasons, does it have
the luxury of re-recruiting the Home Service Battalions of the old Royal Irish
Regiment - which would be unacceptable to Irish nationalists. So if patrolling
had eventually to be resumed, it would have to be with regular troops.

Likewise, the security services could well do without further surveillance
capacity being transferred to Northern Ireland: its spanking new regional HQ in
Holywood, Co.

Down, was partly meant to be a back-up to substitute for Thames House in the
event of a devastating chemical or biological attack on London. Once again, the
old Irish nationalist adage, 'England's danger is Ireland's opportunity', is
coming into play - even if the apolitical militarists of Real IRA and Continuity
IRA did not necessarily intend it that way.

LOAD-DATE: March 17, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Magazine


                      Copyright 2009 The Spectator Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              477 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring South Asia - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                             March 16, 2009 Monday

Pakistan minister says no clue of Indian involvement in Lahore terror attack

LENGTH: 278 words


Text of report by official news agency Associated Press of Pakistan (APP)

Hyderabad, 15 March: Federal Sports Minister Syed Aftab Shah Jilani has said
that no clue of involvement of India has yet been found in terrorist attack
incident on Sri Lankan cricket team in Lahore.

Talking to newsmen at the marriage ceremony of the son of MNA [member of
National Assembly] Syed Ameer Ali Shah Jamote here on Sunday [15 March], the
minister said the Sri Lankan government showed positive response after terrorist
attack on the team because Sri Lanka also experienced such kind of terrorism.
The response from the Chairman International Cricket Council (ICC) was also
encouraging, he added.

Replying to a question about shifting of World Cup matches after the terrorist
attack, the Minister said no decision has yet been taken by the cricketing
world, however the organising of matches depends on the future situation.

Responding to a question, the Minister made it clear that Pakistan Cricket Board
(PCB) is accountable and not above the Senate Standing Committee and it is the
reason why Chairman PCB was summoned by the Committee while Sports Ministry has
given a number of recommendations for promotion of cricket.

The Chairman PCB is not controversial, however, he should make efforts to
improve his image as well as the team's, he said and added that there is no need
of changes or downsizing in the PCB.

Besides cricket, he said the government is also paying full attention to the
promotion of other sports disciplines including football, hockey, badminton and
squash at grass root level.

Source: Associated Press of Pakistan news agency, Islamabad, in English 2018gmt
15 Mar 09

LOAD-DATE: March 16, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2009 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              478 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring Middle East - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                             March 16, 2009 Monday

Five people said killed in "terrorist" attack east of Algiers

LENGTH: 149 words


Five people have been killed in a "terrorist incursion" in Tebessa, some 600 km
east of Algiers, the privately-owned French language daily newspaper El Watan
reported on 16 March.Quoting a "security source", the paper said an
"eight-strong terrorist group" attacked the previous day the house of a sheep
dealer in Chatabia, 60 km east of Tebessa. "When they wanted to steal the herd
of two shepherds, the terrorists cowardly slit the throat of one of them and
violently beat up the second. Before fleeing, they killed more than 300 sheep
and laid home-made bombs around the house".

"The next day, when the victims' loved ones went to the scene of the attack, two
roadside bombs hit their cars, killing four and wounding one," El Watan added.

This attack comes a month after the twin attack on 12 February in Tebessa which
killed seven people.

Source: Liberte, website, Algiers, in French 16 Mar 09

LOAD-DATE: March 16, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2009 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              479 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring Middle East - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                             March 16, 2009 Monday

Yemeni official reveals suicide bomber behind "terrorist" attack on tourists

LENGTH: 257 words


Text of report in English by state-run Yemeni news agency Saba website

Sayun, 16 March: Vice-President Abd-Rabbu Mansur Hadi said on Monday [16 March]
that the explosion that killed four tourists and a Yemeni guide was a suicide
attack by an Al-Qa'dah militant, 18, in the historical city of Shibam,
Hadramawt.

Upon his arrival to the scene of the attack at a tourist site in Shibam, Hadi
called on the security services to prevent crimes and pursuit those terrorist
elements, urging the security bodies to be on alert for eradicating suspected
militants anywhere.

The attack killed five people, including four South Korean tourists and their
Yemeni guide and also injured three other South Koreans supposed to be
identified later after the necessary investigations are finished.

Meanwhile, Vice-President Hadi held an exceptional meeting with the leadership
of Hadramawt Governorate and military and security leaders in the governorate.

During the meeting, Hadi was briefed on more details of the attacks offered by
security agencies and the coordination among different security bodies to
investigate the terrorist accident.

The security bodies reviewed some photos and reports of the attack and efforts
to pursuit suspects behind it.

In January 2008, two Belgian tourists were killed in Yemen in an attack blamed
on Al-Qa'idah-linked militants who have launched frequent attacks on government
and Western targets, including the US embassy, a US warship and a French
supertanker.

Source: Saba news agency website, Sanaa, in English 1441 gmt 16 Mar 09

LOAD-DATE: March 16, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2009 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              480 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                   vnunet.com

                              16 March 2009 Monday

Malicious 'terror attack' spam sets off security alarms

BYLINE: Shaun Nichols in San Francisco

LENGTH: 254 words



HIGHLIGHT: Bomb scare emails blamed for spreading spam


A new malware scam is using fabricated reports of a terrorist attack to infect
users.

According to researchers from several security firms, including McAfee and
Sophos, the attacks are being sent out as spam messages which contain
hyperlinks.

The attacks carry such headlines as "why did it happen in your city?" and " at
least 18 killed in your city." The message itself contains little more than a
short sentence and a link to a phony news site.

Where the attack distinguishes itself, however, is the use of geolocation
services which collect traffic data and then insert the name of the user's city
of origin into the article, further increasing the chances that a user will
click on what appears to be a video file on the page.

Rather than load a video, however, the page attempts to download an executable
file on the target system. That file then infects the user with malware from the
'Waledac' botnet (also known as 'waled.')

"They are using the city name of the user visiting the fake website and
inserting this name into the website itself," explained McAfee researcher Micha
Pekrul.

"So the 'breaking news' gets even more attention, because when an attack happens
in your home town, everyone would be anxious and curious."

Neither tactic is particularly new. Malware writers have in recent years taken
to creating fake news pages for news events, attacks and natural disasters, both
real and fabricated, to spread their wares. Geolocating is also becoming a
particularly effective tool for use in social engineering attacks.

LOAD-DATE: 17 March 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication


                    Copyright 2009 VNU Business Publications
                              All Rights Reserved

                              481 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring Middle East - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                             March 17, 2009 Tuesday

Paper says father, son killed in "terrorist" attack in eastern Algeria

LENGTH: 174 words


Excerpt from report by privately-owned Algerian newspaper El Watan website on 17
March

The series of bomb attacks that has struck the Tebessa region in recent days and
which has targeted civilians and soldiers and the perpetrators of which are
reportedly from the branch of Al-Qa'idah in the [Lands of the Islamic] Maghreb
[AQLIM; the group formerly known as the Salafi Group for Call and Combat, or
GSPC] is not only proof that terrorism still reigns supreme but that it has also
turned the region into its fief.

As proof, during the search operation that was carried out after the attack, the
security agencies managed to defuse four lethal devices with very sophisticated
means. According to one security source, another homemade bomb exploded
yesterday [16 March] at about 1030 hours in Oued Essania, in the community of
Berzguen, which reports administratively to the district of El Ma Labiod, 50 km
south of Tebessa. The toll: two dead, a father and his son. [Passage omitted].

Source: El Watan website, Algiers, in French 0000 gmt 17 Mar 09

LOAD-DATE: March 17, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2009 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              482 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                                  Daily Record

                            March 17, 2009, Tuesday

BORUC BRICK TERROR;
EXCLUSIVE HOOLIGANS ATTACK CELTIC KEEPER'S MANSION AS HE CELEBRATES INSIDE AFTER
CUP FINAL WIN

BYLINE: By Mark McGivern

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 515 words


CELTIC goalie Artur Boruc's home was attacked twice by thugs just hours after
Celtic's cup final win over Rangers.

The Pol ish star's pounds 1.3million mansion grounds were invaded by vandals
after Celtic's 2-0 victory in the CIS Insurance Cup on Sunday.

In the first attack, before the player returned to his home, yobs threw a brick
through the bathroom window. The second attack came at 1 am while the star
watched TV with friends at the detached house in Bearsden, near Glasgow.

His girlfriend Sara Mannei was in the house and a three-year-old girl was asleep
in a bedroom.

Last night, Boruc's close friend and financial adviser David McDonald said he,
too, had been in the house when the second attack took place.

David added: "We were watching Spanish football in the living room when we heard
a loud crash, obviously a window smashing.

"We went through and saw a huge brick had been put through the glass.

"It wasn't a normal brick. It was something they had taken from the garden and
much bigger. It would have taken the kind of effort to throw a shot putt to lift
it and put it through the window. If the brick had hit anyone inside the house,
it would have killed them outright.

"These people attacked the house indiscriminately and didn't care about the
consequences.

"We looked out the window and looked around the house but whoever did it had
gone.

"I wouldn't say Artur was terrified but he is hugely concerned just now and
doesn't want any kind of repeat."

David had watched the game at Hampden before returning to his own home and
arranging to meet Artur in Bearsden later.

He said: "I spoke to Artur on the phone and he told me a bathroom window had
been done by the time he got home.

"The bathroom is at the back.

Whoever did it must have prowled around a bit.

"Artur can handle abuse from Rangers fans while he is playing and there will be
the odd time when people may say something in the street.

"But this is something else altogether.

"It's an attack on his house and no one should be subjected to anything like
this.

"Whoever did this should be locked up. It was a nasty and premeditated attack.

"A three-year-old was sleeping in the house at the time."

David said police took almost two hours to turn up at Boruc's home to take a
statement.

He said: "They said they were really busy. It took until after 2am for them to
turn up and they spend half an hour taking a statement from me."

He added: "Artur already has proper security measures at home but he will be
thinking about increasing them now. He is a character on the field but he's a
very down to earth, decent guy."

The assault on Boruc's home is the latest in a series of appalling incidents in
the aftermath of Glasgow derby matches in recent years.

In recent years, former Celtic manager Martin O'Neill's garden was attacked by
thugs.

Rangers goalie Allan McGregor's car was twice attacked by vandals and Celtic
coach Neil Lennon was left unconscious after being attacked by two Rangers fans,
who were jailed last month.

Rangers striker Nacho Novo received death threats from sick fans and his home
address was published on a website.

LOAD-DATE: March 17, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: TARGET: Boruc
SCARE: The brick that was thrown through the bathroom window, next to a child's
shoe
IN LOVE: Artur and Sara

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


            Copyright 2009 Scottish Daily Record & Sunday Mail Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              483 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring South Asia - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                            March 18, 2009 Wednesday

Afghan intelligence arrests seven terror attack plotters in capital

LENGTH: 253 words


Text of report by Afghan independent Tolo TV, on 18 March

[Presenter] The National Security Directorate reports arresting seven persons on
charges of planning terrorist attacks.

The spokesman for the National Security Directorate [Ansari] says some of the
arrested persons were involved in the 12 February terrorist attacks in the
capital.

The directorate claim that the attack on 12 February was orchestrated on the
other side of the border [Pakistani side of the border]. Tamim Shahir is
reporting.

[Correspondent] The spokesman for the National Security Directorate says the
arrested persons were also involved in planning the attacks on the prison
department and the ministries of justice and education [on 12 February].

[National Security Directorate Spokesman Sayed Ansari, in Dari] The persons that
the personnel of the National Security Directorate have arrested are being
investigated by us. One of the organisers of the 12 February terrorist attack
says that he received training on terrorist activities in Pakistan's Waziristan
region.

[A young man, arrested by intelligence personnel, in Pashto] When I went home
back on that time, eight suicide bombers were also there at that home, and we
made arrangements during the night.

[Correspondent] The spokesman for the National Security Directorate says the
arrested persons were arrested while intending to rent a home in the Qala-e
Wakil area of Kabul from where they wanted to orchestrate terrorist attacks in
Kabul.

Source: Tolo TV, Kabul, in Dari 1330 gmt 18 Mar 09

LOAD-DATE: March 18, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2009 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              484 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                             Paisley Daily Express

                            March 19, 2009 Thursday
                                  1ST Edition

MAN ATTACKED HIS NEIGHBOUR AFTER TERROR CAMPAIGN;
Unprovoked assault left woman needing seven stiches

BYLINE: JOHN LEES

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 525 words


A MAN who finally snapped and assaulted a neighbour after suffering a horrific
campaign of terror in his own home has been jailed for a year.

Vulnerable Derek Turner's Paisley home has been vandalised by thugs so many
times that workmen have been called out to replace his front door on 14 separate
occasions after it was repeatedly booted in.

And his windows have been smashed so often that plans were made to replace them
with thick plastic in a last-ditch bid to thwart the vandals.

Paisley Sheriff Court heard how Turner finally lost his patience and attacked a
neighbour with a piece of wood when she went to his door late at night.

But, even as 32-year-old Turner was held on remand while waiting for the court
case to be dealt with, his home in Blackstoun Oval was broken into and looted,
leaving him with nothing of any value.

The court was told how mindless yobs were preying on him and making his life
intolerable.

Turner, who suffers from a borderline personality disorder, made matters worse
for himself by attempting to blot things out by taking amphetamines.

That only made him less able to cope with the almost daily abuse he had to face.

Depute fiscal Clifford Most said Turner snapped and became violent on September
23, last year.

This was after Lee Anne McKenna and her boyfriend went uninvited to his door at
11.45pm.

Defence agent John Gardner told the court his client had been frightened
following a relentless campaign of torment by others.

He added that, on the night in question, there had been an argument on Turner's
doorstep.

Mr Gardner said: "There are some neighbours who take advantage of him.

"His windows have been smashed so many times that he is now having plastic
replacements fitted.

"People have entered his home and smashed things up and he has had items stolen.

"It is most unfortunate that someone with significant problems to contend with
should be treated this way.

"Against that background, on the night in question, he went to the door in some
fear and reacted in the manner described."

Sheriff Colin Pettigrew had previously remanded Turner in custody and called for
detailed background reports to be prepared.

When Turner was hauled back to court to learn his fate, the sheriff learned that
the accused's home had been trashed and looted while it was lying unoccupied.

Mr Gardner urged Sheriff Pettigrew to consider placing his client on probation
with conditions in place to seek and accept drug counselling and psychiatric
assistance.

But the sheriff told Turner that, as he had carried out an unprovoked attack
which resulted in an injury requiring seven stitches, custody could not be
avoided.

He imposed a 12-month sentence, reduced from 16 months due to his early guilty
plea, and backdated the term to November 13, when Turner was taken into custody.

Sheriff Pettigrew deferred sentence on a separate matter involving unlawful
possession of a small amount of amphetamine until May 7.

And he told Turner he might at that stage consider a period of probation as a
suitable disposal to provide some supervision and assistance for him upon his
release back into the community.

LOAD-DATE: March 19, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                           Copyright 2009 MGN Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              485 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                    BBC Monitoring Asia Pacific - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                             March 20, 2009 Friday

Chinese police investigating barracks attack as terrorism case

LENGTH: 228 words


Text of report by Hong Kong-based news agency Zhongguo Tongxun She

["Chongqing Military Camp Attacked by Offender[s], One Guard Dies"]

Chongqing, 20 Mar (ZTS) - An attack on a guard of the armed forces occurred in
the mountainous city of Chongqing on 19 March. One guard died in the attack by
offender[s].

It has been learned that local police have listed the case within the scope of
the strike against terrorism, based on what has been learned about the on-site
circumstances.

A spokesperson of the Chongqing Municipality Public Security Bureau revealed to
the media on 20 March that a guard at the barracks of a certain unit stationed
in Shiqiaopu, Gaoxin District, Chongqing Municipality was attacked by gun-toting
offender[s] at around 1942 [ 1142 gmt] on 19 March. The guard died after
emergency treatment proved ineffective. The offender[s] snatched an automatic
rifle.

After the incident, Chongqing police immediately activated contingency plans.
All police services are putting all-out efforts into the search and arrest work.

The CCP Chongqing Municipal Committee and the municipal government attach great
importance to the case. Bo Xilai, secretary of the CCP municipal committee,
Mayor Wang Hongju, and others have successively given instructions demanding
that every effort be made to solve the case.

Source: Zhongguo Tongxun She, Hong Kong, in Chinese 20 Mar 09

LOAD-DATE: March 20, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2009 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              486 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                      Coventry Evening Telegraph (England)

                             March 20, 2009 Friday
                                Nuneaton Edition

Honour for bombings hero dad;
MBE: First aid given after terror attacks

BYLINE: By Helen Thomas

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 296 words


A BRAVE dad who helped victims of the London bombings was in Buckingham Palace
yesterday to receive the MBE from the Queen.

Steve Hucklesby, of Buckley Road, Leamington, was travelling on the London
Underground on July 7, 2005, when there was a huge explosion in a nearby train.

He clambered through a window into the bombed carriage where he offered first
aid to some of the victims.

Steve, who works as a policy adviser for the Methodist Church, is one of six
people honoured for their actions in the aftermath of the bombings.

The suicide bombing attack, which also included two other underground trains and
a London bus, killed 52 people and injured 700.

Steve, who lives with his wife Ellie and two children, said: "Many, many people
helped out on that day and very few have been recognised for it so I consider
myself very fortunate. It is recognition for all the ordinary people who rallied
round that day."

He added the Queen asked him what it was like in the tunnel and acknowledged it
must have been very dark.

"I told her that we didn't really know what was waiting for us when we went in
there," he said.

Also receiving her MBE from the Queen yesterday was Warwickshire businesswoman
Sarah Tremellen, who founded the Bravissimo lingerie company.

She received her honour for services to entrepreneurship after setting up the
firm from her sitting room 11 years ago.

The mum-of-three started Bravissimo after struggling to find pretty lingerie in
larger sizes while she was pregnant.

The company now sells bras in bigger sizes all over the country as well as by
mail order and employs 600 staff in its Leamington office and 20 shops.

Sarah, of Shipston-on-Stour, said: "To get an award from the Queen is just the
pinnacle. I hold it in very high value and I think people still do."

LOAD-DATE: March 20, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: MBE... businessswoman Sarah Tremellen.; HONOURED... Steve Hucklesby
receives his MBE from the Queen.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2009 Coventry Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              487 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                 Kent Messenger

                                 March 20, 2009

Terror attack coach's visit

LENGTH: 162 words


A CRICKET coach who was injured during a terrifying Pakistani gun attack, has
returned briefly  to his Kent home.

Paul Farbrace, who suffered a shrapnel wound to his right wrist when terrorists
attacked the Sri Lankan cricket team in Lahore on March 3, arrived in
Harrietsham on Saturday evening.

He spent a few days with his family before flying back to Sri Lanka on Tuesday
evening.

His wife Liz said: "We were all really pleased to see him.

"We are both very aware that people were killed and know he was very lucky, but
he is fine and just really keen to get back to work."

Mr Farbrace, 41, the Sri Lankan cricket team assistant coach, is still wearing a
cast on his wrist while his muscle, which was damaged by the shrapnel, heals.

Seven people were killed and eight injured during the attack.

Mr Farbrace is a former Kent wicketkeeper and academy director. He was appointed
as Sri Lankan assistant coach in July 2007 and has also coached the England
Women and Under-19 squads.

LOAD-DATE: March 20, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2009 KM Media Group Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                              488 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring Middle East - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                            March 21, 2009 Saturday

A civilian killed, five soldiers wounded in "terrorist" attacks - paper

LENGTH: 202 words


One civilian has been killed and five soldiers injured in number of attacks in
different parts of the country, Algerian privately-owned Arabic language
El-Khabar newspaper reported on 21 March.

The paper said that on 19 March a taxi driver transporting five soldiers was
shot dead and a soldier was wounded in an ambush in Medea Province, some 100 km
south of Algiers.

El-Khabar reported hat another soldier was injured in a clash between the
Algerian military and an armed group which took place on 19 March in Biskra
Province, some 600 km south of Algiers. The paper's sources said that the clash
had lasted a number of hours and that the armed group was composed of some 15
members.

In another attack, the paper said that on 20 March a home-made road-side bomb
had exploded in Jijel Province, some 250 km east of Algiers. The bomb, which
left three soldiers and a municipal guard severely injured, went off while a
joint force of the army, the municipal guards and the self-defence forces was
combing the region's forests.

Meanwhile, a home-made road-side bomb was defused on Friday in Tizi Ouzou
Province, some 100 km east of Algiers, according to El-Khabar.

Source: El-Khabar website, Algiers, in Arabic 21 Mar 09

LOAD-DATE: March 21, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2009 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              489 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                          The Daily Telegraph (London)

                            March 21, 2009 Saturday

Hotels put on alert over Mumbai-style terror attack

BYLINE: Christopher Hope Whitehall Editor

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 514  words


BRITISH hotels are vulnerable to Mumbai-style attacks, senior anti-terrorist
officers warned yesterday.

Officials in the security services also judge the threat against Britain to be
at the "severe end of severe'', just days before the G20 summit in London is due
to begin.

The Daily Telegraph has learnt that senior counter-terrorism officers are highly
concerned about the possibility of attacks by terrorists using automatic weapons
on hotels and other public buildings.

This marks a change in the challenge posed to the security services - which have
previously focused on preventing bombings - before a major relaunch of the
Government's counter-terrorism strategy next week.

The fears were prompted by the coordinated attacks by terrorists armed with
pistols, grenades and assault rifles in Mumbai last November - including on two
deluxe hotels - in which 173 people were killed.

The attacks have forced anti-terrorist officers to watch for any increase in
small arms being smuggled into Britain through ports or remote airfields, where
security is more lax.

Officials are also considering issuing guidance to the management of hotels,
businesses and other buildings where people gather in large numbers, about the
best way to protect against a terrorist attack.

Security sources have disclosed that the threat of a terrorist attack is now
reckoned to be at the top end of "severe'', the third of four risk levels,
rating an attack "highly likely''.

The only higher rating would be "critical'', which means that an attack "is
expected imminently''.

The warning was given before the publication of the new version of the
Government's six-year-old "Contest'' counter-terrorism strategy next week, which
will include advice on how to protect buildings from attack.

"Contest Two'' is also likely to raise concerns that the relentless focus on
London is displacing the threat of terrorism away from the capital and towards
other parts of Britain.

This fear is particularly relevant to the security plans for the Olympics in
London 2012.

One official said the Home Office was "acutely aware'' that the focus on
securing London ahead of the Games could "displace attacks onto other parts of
the UK''.

The attempted suicide bombing of Glasgow airport with a car packed with propane
canisters nearly two years ago showed how vulnerable the areas outside the
capital are to a terrorist attack.

The new strategy is also likely to address whether the security services are
communicating the threat from terrorism to the public appropriately, amid fears
that the warnings are being greeted with scepticism.

Chris Grayling, the shadow home secretary, said: "The Government is right that
the horrific events in Mumbai have highlighted the need for a different strategy
in counter-terrorism. No part of the UK is free from threat - and we know that
terrorists want soft targets.''

A Home Office source strongly denied that there was specific intelligence or
concern about a Mumbai-style attack on hotels in Britain. The source added: "We
are always on alert. That is why we are going ahead with Contest Two.''

LOAD-DATE: March 21, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2009 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              490 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                             The Gloucester Citizen

                            March 21, 2009 Saturday

Traders prepared for terror attacks

SECTION: Pg. 26

LENGTH: 148 words


Traders in Gloucester city centre have been learning how to deal with the threat
of a terrorist attack.

Businesses were invited to take part in workshops held by Gloucestershire
police.

The scheme, part of the nationally-run Project Argus, took place at the
Guildhall and explored ways in which to prevent any potential terrorist attack.

Participants learned how to react if caught up in the middle of an international
terrorist attack, domestic extremism incident or other catastrophe such as
flooding, fire or an explosion.

Chief Inspector Emma Ackland, who oversees policing in Gloucester, said: "The
learning from the exercise will also prove valuable in the event of any major
incident. Although a terror attack is unlikely it is something we all need to be
increasingly aware of. It is prudent for businesses to be alert at all times and
have plans in place that manage risk and threat."

LOAD-DATE: June 11, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: 31


                     Copyright 2009 The Gloucester Citizen
                              All Rights Reserved

                              491 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                             The Gloucester Citizen

                            March 21, 2009 Saturday

Traders prepared for terror attacks

SECTION: Pg. 26

LENGTH: 148 words


Traders in Gloucester city centre have been learning how to deal with the threat
of a terrorist attack.

Businesses were invited to take part in workshops held by Gloucestershire
police.

The scheme, part of the nationally-run Project Argus, took place at the
Guildhall and explored ways in which to prevent any potential terrorist attack.

Participants learned how to react if caught up in the middle of an international
terrorist attack, domestic extremism incident or other catastrophe such as
flooding, fire or an explosion.

Chief Inspector Emma Ackland, who oversees policing in Gloucester, said: "The
learning from the exercise will also prove valuable in the event of any major
incident. Although a terror attack is unlikely it is something we all need to be
increasingly aware of. It is prudent for businesses to be alert at all times and
have plans in place that manage risk and threat."

LOAD-DATE: August 21, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: 31


                     Copyright 2009 The Gloucester Citizen
                              All Rights Reserved

                              492 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                             The Gloucester Citizen

                            March 21, 2009 Saturday

Traders prepared for terror attacks

SECTION: Pg. 26

LENGTH: 148 words


Traders in Gloucester city centre have been learning how to deal with the threat
of a terrorist attack.

Businesses were invited to take part in workshops held by Gloucestershire
police.

The scheme, part of the nationally-run Project Argus, took place at the
Guildhall and explored ways in which to prevent any potential terrorist attack.

Participants learned how to react if caught up in the middle of an international
terrorist attack, domestic extremism incident or other catastrophe such as
flooding, fire or an explosion.

Chief Inspector Emma Ackland, who oversees policing in Gloucester, said: "The
learning from the exercise will also prove valuable in the event of any major
incident. Although a terror attack is unlikely it is something we all need to be
increasingly aware of. It is prudent for businesses to be alert at all times and
have plans in place that manage risk and threat."

LOAD-DATE: March 22, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: 31


                     Copyright 2009 The Gloucester Citizen
                              All Rights Reserved

                              493 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring Middle East - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                             March 23, 2009 Monday

Yemeni editorial decries "criminal" terrorist attacks on tourists

LENGTH: 816 words


Text of report by Yemeni Armed Forces newspaper 26 September website on 20 March

[Editorial: "The Makers of Death"]

The two criminal terrorist incidents which targeted a number of South Korean
tourists and Yemeni citizens reflect the serious dangers of terrorism and
terrorists.

Those terrorists who have no target or objective other than shedding the blood
of the innocent and spreading death and destruction, demonstrating to us the
extent of aberration the extremist ideology can reach, especially if we knew
that those who carried out the two terrorist suicide operations were in the
prime of youth. From this point, it becomes clear what the brain filling of some
youth and young people with distorted, radical, and extravagant ideas, which are
not related to our true Islam and its tolerant principles, can do.

They are for sure victims to criminal gangs whose direction is based on
misleading and winning their victims over, taking advantage from their failure
in their study and life as well as in their social, cultural, and family
circumstances in order to rehabilitate them on the basis of extravagance,
extremism, and stray ideology using the brainwash method in a way that makes
them without will, unable to use their minds properly, or differentiate between
right and wrong.

Thus, they become obedient tools in the hands of those criminals, throwing them
in the death oven embodied by the terrorist acts and the suicide operations
which harm Yemen and the interests of its people. The victims are the innocent
citizens and the foreign visitors who come to our country for tourism and
investment.

Those deceived boys are unaware that by carrying out suicide operations they
become doomed and waste their lives and afterlives. Their lives were wasted in
vain and their belief that what they are doing is for the cause of God is
nothing but illusions. Our true Islam is innocent of them, and the terrorist and
brutal crimes they commit are ostracized by Islam because they are against its
tolerant teachings and against all the principles that came with divine
religions, humanitarian values, and the traditions and norms of our civilized
and deep-rooted people.

Therefore, we call on those youth and those who motivate them to objectively
revise the destructive and misleading ideas with which they were mobilized, and
look for correct answers derived from religion and logic. Only then, they will
realize the delusion and falsehood they are in, and only then they will see
clearly the extent of their stupidity and foolishness and that they were
wandering in a dark road without faith or destination.

They will also see that the criminal acts they commit, whether against their
brothers in the same creed and country or against other innocent citizens of
sisterly and allied countries, are nothing but clear terrorist acts that are not
related to any religion or country, or stated by a sane mind, logic, or nature.
They are acts carried out by extremists obsessed with committing murders just
for the joy of it and spreading sabotage and destruction in what they target
with their terrorism with recklessness that lack sanity and vision.

Surely, what those terrorists do is nothing but a proof of their aggression,
ignorance, and foolishness. This requires us to hunt them down and besiege them
until their roots are removed as they are death makers and enemies of life and
prosperity who have no regard for humanitarian life.

Hence, we say that war on the terrorism phenomenon and terrorists is a national
issue that requires the joint efforts of everybody in the Yemen of wisdom and
faith. The fight against these extremist ideas that lead the youth on the way of
terrorism, and the responsibility in this regard start at home and family
through educational institutions, media, guidance, NGOs and last but not least,
enlightened religious scholars.

Confronting terrorism should be comprehensive so as to eradicate this evil.
Fortifying our boys and preventing them from falling in the trap of the satanic
extremist ideas with which some of our youth are mobilized. They are mobilized
by stray deviants who find a way into the young men, who suffer family and
economic issues in order to win our youth over to fuel their losing battles.

Society will stand side by side with the security forces and engage in the
battle against terrorism. The main and direct mission of the security forces is
to pursue the seeds of evil and terrorism that those criminals are trying to
sow; to dry out all the sources that help them survive; and to exterminate their
cancerous cells from our Yemeni society, which is built on the good principles
and values that reflect the essence of Islam.

Therefore, the war on terrorism and terrorists will continue with perseverance
until they are uprooted. May Yemen remain the land of faith, stability, and
wisdom!

Source: 26 September website, Sanaa, in Arabic 20 Mar 09

LOAD-DATE: March 23, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2009 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              494 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring Middle East - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                             March 23, 2009 Monday

Yemeni scholars condemn terrorist attacks against foreigners

LENGTH: 591 words


Text of report by Yemeni newspaper Al-Thawrah website on 21 March

[Unattributed report: "Friday Preachers Call on Citizens To Combat Acts of
Terrorism"]

The Yemeni scholars assert that tourists and foreigners that enter the country
with the approval of the country's authorities come under the protection of God
Almighty and state security. It is religiously forbidden to attack any of them
or cause them harm. In a statement issued by the Yemeni Ulema Association [YUA],
a copy of which was delivered to the Yemeni New Agency SABA, the scholars
stressed that this law is known to every knowledgeable and educated person.
Following is the text of the statement:

Praise be to God who has said: 'if any one slew a person -unless it be for
murder or for spreading mischief in the land -it would be as if he slew the
whole people: and if any one saved a life, it would be as if he saved the life
of the whole people,' [part of Koranic verse; Al-Ma'idah; 5:32] and who has also
said: 'Nor kill (or destroy) yourselves: for verily Allah hath been to you Most
Merciful! [part of Koranic verse; Al-Nisa; 4:29]. Prayers and peace be upon the
prophet of all mankind who said: 'Whoever kills a Al-Mu'ahidin [people who have
contracts with Muslims] will not even smell heaven.'

The YUA condemns the two criminal acts carried out by some of the misled who did
not bother to discover the [correct] religious edicts that are based on a proper
understanding of the noble religion. The first one blew himself up, killing or
wounding a number of Korean tourists and Yemenis in Shibam Hadramawt, while the
other blew himself up on the freeway to Sanaa airport, disturbing the general
peace of the citizens. Both of them paid no heed to their own lives, while
forgetting that human lives are not for them to take. The preservation of human
life is a duty prescribed by religious edicts.

The dangerous element in such matters, emerged when it was discovered that the
first criminal was 18 years of age. The danger is who was the one who planted
these misleading ideas, which are alien to Yemeni society, into the minds of
those youths, causing them to stray from the path set by the religion?

Since the country has guaranteed the safety of anyone entering it, then that
person is then under God's protection before that of the country, which means
that it is religiously forbidden to attack or harm that person. This Shari'a law
is known to every educated and knowledgeable person.

Thus, the YUA calls for keeping away from committing major sins and not being
pushed into committing crimes of murder, which will bring severe punishment to
whoever commits such a crime. It also called on preachers, guides, thinkers, the
education system, and the media to participate in properly shaping youths based
on the teachings of the Koran and the Sunnah of the Messenger, peace be upon
him. They must also work and cooperate, each in his own field, to locate the
sources of these subversive ideas and work together to eradicate this disease
that disturbs society. The YUA urges moderation, and calls on all people,
especially the youth, to adhere to this principle.

Maintaining the society's security, stability, and general peace by all is a
known fact for the sake of building and developing the society and achieving
prosperity. This cannot be achieved unless everyone cooperates to prevent crime
before it happens. We pray that God Almighty protects the country and reforms
his servants, for he is the one who answers prayers.

Source: Al-Thawrah website, Sanaa, in Arabic 21 Mar 09

LOAD-DATE: March 23, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2009 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              495 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                    BBC Monitoring Asia Pacific - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                             March 23, 2009 Monday

Japanese PM compares piracy to terrorism after attack near Somalia

LENGTH: 351 words


Text of report in English by Japan's largest news agency Kyodo

Tokyo, March 23 Kyodo - An automobile transport ship operated by Japanese
shipping firm Mitsui O.S.K. Lines Ltd. was attacked by what appeared to be
pirate boats off the coast of Somalia on Sunday but managed to escape, the
Japanese transport ministry said Monday.

The windows and ceiling in the vessel's pilothouse were hit by bullets, but no
one on the ship was hurt, the ministry said. The 13,038-ton Jasmine Ace,
registered in the Cayman Islands - a British overseas territory - had 18 crew
members, all Filipino, aboard.

The attack occurred at around 10 p.m. Sunday Japan time (4 p.m. local time)
around 900 kilometres east off the coast of Somalia. After being attacked, the
car carrier sped up and zigzagged for about 40 minutes until it finally got
clear of two boats that were chasing it, according to the Land, Infrastructure,
Transport and Tourism Ministry.

The cargo ship was en route from Sharjah, the United Arab Emirates, to Mombasa,
Kenya, with about 380 used cars on board, the shipping firm said.

On Monday evening, Prime Minister Taro Aso termed such piracy activities as the
"common enemy of all humankind" along with terrorism.

"While I'm relieved to hear that fortunately no one was hurt this time, I feel
resentment at such acts," he told reporters.

Japan has sent two destroyers to the Gulf of Aden off the coast of Somalia to
escort Japan-related commercial ships, including ones operated by Japanese
shipping firms, through the pirate-infested gulf.

The Maritime Self-Defence Force destroyers are expected to begin the escort
mission in the waters around March 30, several days earlier than previously
planned.

Piracy has been rampant in the waters with 111 piracy incidents reported last
year. Three Japan-linked vessels were attacked by pirates off the Somali coast
last year, according to the ministry.

More than a dozen countries, including the United States, Russia, China and
South Korea, have dispatched naval vessels to the region to patrol against
pirates.

Source: Kyodo News Service, Tokyo, in English 1031 gmt 23 Mar 09

LOAD-DATE: March 23, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2009 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              496 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                          The Daily Telegraph (London)

                             March 23, 2009 Monday

Hotel staff to be trained for terror attacks

BYLINE: Tom Whitehead Home Affairs Editor

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 95  words


AROUND 60,000 British workers, from shop staff to hotel employees, are being
trained to spot the terror threat and respond to attacks under

Government plans.

They are being lined up as a second line of defence against those planning
atrocities, beyond the traditional security and emergency services.

The move forms part of the Home Office's updated counter-terrorism strategy, to
be published tomorrow, which will repeat warnings that the greatest threat comes
from groups linked to al-Qaeda.

The move also reflects concerns following the recent attacks on hotels in
Mumbai.

LOAD-DATE: March 23, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2009 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              497 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                  Guardian.com

                                 March 23, 2009

Mumbai terror attacks suspect says he is from Pakistan

LENGTH: 330 words



HIGHLIGHT: Sole surviving suspected gunman in attacks which left 166 dead
appears in court by videolink for the start of his trial


The sole surviving alleged gunman who bought terror to Mumbai admitted today
that he was from Pakistan.

Mohammed Ajmal Kasab faces the death penalty if convicted over the attack in
which 166 people were killed after terrorists bombed and shot their way across
India's biggest city.

Kasab appeared by videolink for the start of his trial where he is accused of
"waging war" against India. Police have asked for the death penalty if he is
convicted.

Kasab, bearded and wearing a grey T-shirt, does not yet have a lawyer.

According to the Indian news channel NDTV, Kasab was asked during the hearing
whether he wanted a lawyer and replied: "If there will be a trial then I will
need a lawyer."

The judge, ML Tahiliyani, sitting in Mumbai, asked the alleged terrorist if he
had any preference as to who should represent him. Kasab replied: "Could you
just call the lawyer, who appeared on my behalf on November 27?", a reference to
an earlier hearing held last year.

When asked if he would agree to a government-appointed lawyer, Kasab replied in
Hindi: "Theek hai [all right]." He thanked the judge and was taken back to his
cell.

During the hearing today Kasab said he was from Faridkot in the Punjab area of
Pakistan.

Told by Judge Tahiliyani, "I am the judge, who will conduct the trial in your
case," Qasab smiled and replied "Namaste" in acknowledgement.

India has charged 38 people, including Kasab, over the three days of attacks
inflicted on India's financial capital.

Faheem Ansari and Sabauddin Ahmed, two alleged Indian Lashkar-e-Taiba operatives
- the group India claims were behind the attacks - will also face trial.

The charge sheet, which runs to 11,000 pages, contains accounts of more than
2,200 witnesses as well as other evidence provided by the FBI, which helped
Indian police with the investigation.

Those charged as key planners of the attacks included Hafiz Mohammad Saeed,
founder of Lashkar-e-Taiba, and other senior Lashkar members Zaki-ur-Rehman
Lakhvi and Zarar Shah.

LOAD-DATE: March 23, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


      Copyright  2009  Guardian Unlimited (© Guardian Newspapers Limited)
                              All rights reserved

                              498 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                  Guardian.com

                                 March 23, 2009

Mumbai terror attacks suspect says he is from Pakistan

LENGTH: 361 words



HIGHLIGHT: Sole surviving suspected gunman in attacks which left 166 dead
appears in court by videolink for the start of his trial


The sole surviving alleged gunman who bought terror to Mumbai admitted today he
was from Pakistan and allegedly "laughed" as charges that could see him hanged
were read out.

Mohammed Ajmal Kasab faces the death penalty if convicted over the attack, in
which 166 people were killed after terrorists bombed and shot their way across
India's biggest city.

Kasab appeared by videolink for the start of his trial, where he is accused of
"waging war" against India.Ujjwal Nikam, the special public prosecutor, said:
"He was smiling throughout ... He started laughing when the judge asked him if
he understood everything in the charge sheet."

Kasab, bearded and wearing a grey T-shirt, does not yet have a lawyer.

According to the Indian news channel NDTV, Kasab was asked during the hearing
whether he wanted a lawyer and replied: "If there will be a trial then I will
need a lawyer."

The judge, ML Tahiliyani, sitting in Mumbai, asked the alleged terrorist if he
had any preference as to who should represent him. Kasab replied: "Could you
just call the lawyer, who appeared on my behalf on November 27?", a reference to
an earlier hearing held last year.

When asked if he would agree to a government-appointed lawyer, Kasab replied in
Hindi: "Theek hai [all right]." He thanked the judge and was taken back to his
cell.

During the hearing today Kasab said he was from Faridkot, in the Punjab area of
Pakistan.

Told by Judge Tahiliyani, "I am the judge, who will conduct the trial in your
case," Qasab smiled and replied "Namaste" in acknowledgement.

India has charged 38 people, including Kasab, over the three days of attacks
inflicted on India's financial capital.

Faheem Ansari and Sabauddin Ahmed, two alleged Indian Lashkar-e-Taiba operatives
- the group India claims were behind the attacks - will also face trial.

The charge sheet, which runs to 11,000 pages, contains accounts of more than
2,200 witnesses as well as other evidence provided by the FBI, which helped
Indian police with the investigation.

Those charged as key planners of the attacks included Hafiz Mohammad Saeed,
founder of Lashkar-e-Taiba, and other senior Lashkar members Zaki-ur-Rehman
Lakhvi and Zarar Shah.

LOAD-DATE: March 23, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


      Copyright  2009  Guardian Unlimited (© Guardian Newspapers Limited)
                              All rights reserved

                              499 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                          The Guardian - Final Edition

                             March 23, 2009 Monday

National: Smith: 60,000 in training to deal with terror attacks

BYLINE: Nicholas Watt, Chief political correspondent

SECTION: GUARDIAN HOME PAGES; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 469 words


Jacqui Smith, the home secretary, yesterday pledged to end the "secret, behind
closed doors" approach to tackling terrorism as the government prepared to
launch a fresh strategy this week.

A new 60,000-strong civilian force, including security guards at shopping
centres and hotel workers, will be hailed as one of the most important
instruments in confronting the terrorist threat.

Smith outlined the new thinking in an interview on BBC One's The Politics Show
programme. "It's the nature of this work that quite often in the past it's been
the sort of thing that's happened in secret, behind closed doors," she said.

"We're clear that if we're going to address the threat from terrorism, we need
to do that alongside the 60,000 people that we're now training up to respond to
a terrorist threat, in everywhere from our shopping centres to our hotels. We
need to do it alongside the 3,000 police officers, now working on
counter-terror, out and about doing that, and we need to do it with
international partners."

Ministers believe they need to adopt a twin-track approach in which the
authorities take a hardline to people directly involved in terrorism, but avoid
alienating young people who might be tempted by radical Islamism by avoiding
heavy-handedness with the wider Muslim community and by showing that Britain's
belief in democracy and human rights is open to everyone.

Gordon Brown outlined the approach in an article in yesterday's Observer. On the
need to confront terrorists, the prime minister wrote: "Al-Qaida terrorists
remain intent on inflicting mass casualties without warning, including through
suicide bombings. They are motivated by a violent extremist ideology based on a
false reading of religion . . . We must remain vigilant at all times.

"On Tuesday, we will publish our updated counter-terrorism strategy, showing why
this vigilance remains so vital and showing also the success we have had, thanks
to the hard work of the thousands of brave, skilled and dedicated people working
to keep us safe."

But Brown also made clear it was important to wage a battle for what he has in
the past called hearts and minds. "The approach we are taking tackles the
immediate threat through the relentless pursuit of terrorists and disruption of
their plots, builds up our defences against attacks and our resilience to deal
with them, and addresses the longer term causes - understanding what leads
people to become radicalised, so we can stop the process."

The prime minister also threw his weight behind Barack Obama who has warned that
Pakistan-based terrorism represents a grave threat. "In 2001, al-Qaida were
based in Afghanistan. While they are still active there, core al-Qaida has
shifted across the border into Pakistan. More than two-thirds of the plots
threatening the UK are linked to Pakistan."

LOAD-DATE: March 23, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2009 Guardian Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              500 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                          Huddersfield Daily Examiner

                             March 23, 2009 Monday
                                  1ST Edition

MAN, 75 IN AXE THREAT TERROR;
OAP attacked in his own home

BYLINE: KATIE GRANT News Reporter

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 341 words


A PENSIONER was threatened with an axe and had a pillow held over his face in a
horrifying attack in his own home.

Mr James Wareham, of Dyson Street in Dalton, was in bed when he heard the sound
of glass smashing at about 1am on Saturday morning.

The 75-year-old thought it was a car accident or a bottle smashing outside, so
turned over to go back to sleep.

But within seconds his bedroom door was flung open and two figures entered the
room.

A man wearing a black balaclava ran over to the window to close the curtains,
while another man rummaged through drawers and cupboards looking for loot.

The man at the window then turned to Mr Wareham and shouted at him, swearing and
demanding money from the father-of-four.

The callous robber then ran over to the bed, pulled the pillow from underneath
Mr Wareham's head and pushed it over his face.

Mr Wareham, a retired truck driver, was finding it hard to breathe and tried to
stop the sick robber.

But the raider took hold of his hands and forced them back down under the
covers.

He then threw off the pillow and pulled out an axe which he held close to the
pensioner's left cheek.

Mr Wareham's wife of 55 years, Catherine, suffers from Alzheimer's Disease but
was not in the house at the time.

Brave Mr Wareham begged the robbers not to hurt him for the sake of his wife and
told them all his money was kept downstairs.

The robbers made off downstairs where a third man was going through the
pensioner's belongings.

Mr Wareham followed them to the living room and saw them leave the house via the
back of the house with a bottle of spirits and some cash.

The 75-year-old was left shaken by the ordeal and spent the night in hospital
being treated for shock and cuts and bruises.

He is now being looked after by his family.

Officer Nick Doyle, of Huddersfield CID is appealing for witnesses following the
vicious attack.

The men are said to be in their early to mid-20s, between 5ft 10in and 6ft tall
with local accents.

Anyone with any information is urged to call 01484 436664.

LOAD-DATE: March 23, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:  CRIME SCENE: The man's house in Dalton

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                           Copyright 2009 MGN Limited
                              All Rights Reserved



---- End of Request ----
Download Request: Select Items: 1501 - 2000
Time Of Request: Wednesday, February 21, 2018  22:47:07

