



Download Request: Select Items: 1500-1642
Time Of Request: Wednesday, February 21, 2018  23:28:18
Send To:







Terms: terror!


Source: UK Publications
Project ID: None



                               1 of 143 DOCUMENTS



                                   MailOnline

                     December 15, 2014 Monday 11:28 AM GMT

Belgian town of Ghent forced into lockdown as armed hostage situation sparks
fears of terror attack

BYLINE: KHALEDA RAHMAN FOR MAILONLINE

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 440 words



     ·    Sparked fears siege may be terror-related after an Islamist fanatic
          took hostages in Sydney today
     ·    Police sealed off wide perimeter around the area to keep bystanders
          away
     ·    'For the time being we have no indication that there is a link to
          terrorism,' said a police spokesperson
     ·    A police source told reporters they believe incident is drug-related
     ·    Local journalist reports two people have been taken into custody while
          two remain in the flat


Four gunmen took at least one hostage in an apartment in the Belgian city of
Ghent today, the state prosecution service confirmed.

A wide perimeter around the scene in the Dampoort area of the city has been
blocked off and police have urged residents to remain indoors.

The incident sparked fears the siege may be terror-related coming so soon after
an Islamist fanatic took a number of hostages in a Sydney cafe today.

But a police source said they believed the incident to be drug-related.

'For the time being we have no indication that there is a link to terrorism,'
said a spokesperson for the state prosecution service.

A police source reportedly told local journalists the incident is possibly
related to drugs.

They said: 'There is no indication that this is anything to do with terrorism.
This is possibly related to drugs.'

A federal police spokeswoman Annemie Serlippens added: 'There appears to be
nothing political. And it does not seem to be going that way.'

Local journalist Bert Staes reports that two men have been taken into custody
without any violence.

He wrote on Twitter: 'Hostage incident Dampoort #Ghent: two persons taken in
custody without violence, says colleague on the ground'.

Head of Ghent police Filip Rasschaert told  De Standaard  that federal
authorities were taking control of the situation and added they were carrying
out the operation carefully because of the potential involvement of a hostage.

'They have all they need to bring a successful end to a hostage-taking,' he
said.

'There is information that a hostage might have been taken, so we err on the
side of caution.'

Police spokesman Manuel Mugica Gonzalez said: 'Four armed men invaded an
apartment building.

'They're in the building but it is not clear what is happening inside.

'We have set up a security zone and asked residents to stay indoors for their
own safety.'

By mid-morning, a big police operation had been set up in the working-class
neighborhood to keep bystanders away from the scene.

It is the second time in six weeks time there has been hostage situation in the
town.

On October 23, a man was taken hostage on the top floor of an apartment building
at Charles de Kerchovelaan over an unpaid debt.

LOAD-DATE: December 16, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDM


                   Copyright 2014 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                               2 of 143 DOCUMENTS



                                   MailOnline

                      December 15, 2014 Monday 7:16 AM GMT

White supremacist group blames 'left wing bigots' for Sydney hostage crisis as
terrorism expert says racist attacks against Australian Muslims are now 'likely'

BYLINE: SARAH DEAN FOR DAILY MAIL AUSTRALIA and AUSTRALIAN ASSOCIATED PRESS

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 586 words



     ·    Australian Defence League president Ralph Cerminara is taken away by
          police after furious rant
     ·    'Half the reason we've got this problem today is because of left wing
          bigots,' shouted Cerminara
     ·    Similar ill-feeling could now spread in Sydney against the Muslim
          community as tensions rise
     ·    Ben Rich, a researcher into political violence at Monash University,
          says some Australian Muslims could face reprisal due to the incident
     ·    The Grand Mufti of Australia, Professor Ibrahim Abu Mohamed,
          unequivocally condemned the actions of the hostage takers


Ralph Cerminara, president of Australian Defence League, burst into an angry
rant and had to be escorted away by police after an outburst near the Lindt
Chocolat Cafe in central Sydney as the hostage crisis continued.

'Half the reason we've got this problem today is because of left wing bigots...
These people may be murdered because of your left wing bigotry... It's finally
happened!' Cerminara shouted angrily before being taken away by police.

Cerminara's flare-up was an ominous warning of the backlash the Muslim community
could face when the siege is finally resolved. And a terrorism expert agreed,
saying that racist attacks targeting Australia's Muslim community are 'quite
likely'.

Scroll down for video

Ben Rich, a researcher into political violence at Monash University's School of
Social Sciences, said some Australian Muslims could face reprisal due to the
incident in Sydney.

"I can't say to what extent it's going to be, but I'd say it's quite likely," Mr
Rich said.

He predicted that any violence would probably not be 'organised by any
particular political party' but was more likely to be "just a group of guys
deciding 'let's go do something, let's go attack someone'.'

He pointed to reprisal attacks against Muslims following recent terror acts in
Chechnya and in England after the killing of British soldier Lee Rigby in 2013.

'This type of thing brings out a lot of latent tensions in people,' Mr Rich
added.

However, the Grand Mufti of Australia, Professor Ibrahim Abu Mohamed said he and
the Australian National Imams Council are devastated by the incident in Martin
Place.

'[We] condemn this criminal act unequivocally and reiterate that such actions
are denounced in part and in whole in Islam," he said in a statement.

'We along with the wider Australian society await the results of the
investigation about the identity of the perpetrators and their underlying
motivations behind this criminal act.'

The former president of the Australian Federation of Islamic Councils Rehin
Ghauri agreed, saying he was more worried about the welfare of the hostages
inside the cafe than about the possibility of reprisals against Muslims.

'I'm concerned about my Australian brothers and sisters,' Mr Ghauri said.

'We view every event like this with grave concern... Holding people hostage like
this is totally, absolutely and honestly un-Islamic.'

New South Wales Police Commissioner Andrew Scipione says authorities have moved
to a 'footing' similar to dealing with a terrorist attack.

Meanwhile, during the hostage negotiations at Martin Place, a man broke past the
police cordon and had to be restrained by two officers, who told him to stay
behind the tape.

He pleaded with them to let him negotiate with the hostage taker and said he
would willingly stand outside and 'invite' the hostage taker to talk to him.

'All I'm saying is you need someone, outside of the media and stand outside and
say, what have you come for?'

A police officer told him: 'Thanks for your input.'

LOAD-DATE: December 15, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDM


                   Copyright 2014 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                               3 of 143 DOCUMENTS



                                   MailOnline

                      December 15, 2014 Monday 5:14 AM GMT

Two men arrested over plot to launch a terrorist attack on Australian soil in
early morning police raids

BYLINE: DANIEL PIOTROWSKI FOR DAILY MAIL AUSTRALIA

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 378 words



     ·    Terrifying hostage crisis in Martin Place this morning followed a
          counter-terrorism raid on a home in Beecroft, in Sydney's north-west
     ·    At least thirteen people are understood to be inside with the gunman
          and the Sydney Opera House has been evacuated
     ·    NSW police spokeswoman said there is 'nothing to indicate' at link
          between the two events 'at this stage'


Just moments before the hostage situation at Martin Place began, police
announced the arrest of two Sydney men as part of a major counter-terrorism
investigation.

At least thirteen people are currently being held hostage by at least one armed
gunman at the Lindt cafe in Martin Place - a major business, legal and media
centre in Sydney's central business district.

The Australian Federal Police apprehended a 25-year-old terror suspect in
Beecroft in Sydney's leafy north-western suburbs this morning, reportedly as he
was leaving a prayer hall.

Seven News identified one arrested man as Ali Al Talibi but police would not
confirm this information to Daily Mail Australia.

A NSW police spokeswoman said there was 'nothing to indicate [a link between the
two incidents] at this stage'.

Scroll down for video

In a statement early this morning, the Federal Police said the suspect was taken
into custody 'as part of continuing investigations into the planning of a
terrorist attack on Australian soil'.

The investigation also concerned the 'facilitation of travel of Australian
citizens to Syria to engage in armed combat'.

Another man is understood to have already been in custody.

Many shaking and sobbing witnesses have been seen pressed up against the glass
windows of the cafe along with a black flag featuring white Islamic writing.

Radio 2GB host Ray Hadley has reported the hostagetaker 'is telling negotiators
he has got control of the city'.

The Sydney Opera House was evacuated and the Prime Minister announced the
National Security Committee had been convened in Canberra.

'It's a very fluid situation at the moment,' an AFP spokesman told Daily Mail
Australia this morning.

The AFP has cancelled plans to hold a press conference about the raids.

In September, Australia witnessed the largest terror raids the country has ever
seen with more than 800 police officers involved in operations across the Sydney
basin.

LOAD-DATE: December 15, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDM


                   Copyright 2014 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                               4 of 143 DOCUMENTS



                                   MailOnline

                      December 15, 2014 Monday 2:19 AM GMT

NYPD 'monitoring' terror attack in Sydney where hostages are forced to hold
jihadist flag as U.S. consulate is evacuated

BYLINE: KIERAN CORCORAN FOR MAILONLINE and DAILY MAIL AUSTRALIA REPORTER

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 895 words



     ·    Armed men walked into the Lindt café in Sydney's Martin Place at
          9.45am
     ·    Up to 20 people including staff and customers are being held hostage
     ·    A black 'shahada' jihadist flag is being held up in the window
     ·    Reports that hostage-taker has a shotgun and possibly an explosive
          device
     ·    Heavily armed police have sealed off area around the café
     ·    Nearby U.S. consulate has been evacuated in the wake of the raid
     ·    NYPD said it is aware of the situation and watching closely
     ·    Jihadists regularly encourage 'lone wolf' attacks in Western countries
     ·    The United States is the most prominent target


Police in New York are monitoring a terrorist attack in Syndey, Australia, in
which as many as 20 people have been taken hostage.

An armed siege is developing after either one of two gunmen marched into a Lindt
cafe in the center of the city and forced sobbing hostages against the window.

Australian police have sealed off the surrounding streets amid fears the
attacker or attackers have a shotgun and explosives.

In light of the attack, the NYPD said they are 'aware of what's happening in
Australia', and later added: 'We are monitoring the situation in Sydney.' The
U.S. government has also evacuated its consulate in Sydney, which is very close
to the scene of the confrontation.

Scroll down for video

A spokesman confirmed the evacuation. The consulate also issued an emergency
warning to U.S. citizens in Sydney, urging them to 'maintain a high level of
vigilance and take appropriate steps to enhance your personal security'.

President Obama has also been briefed on the situation by a homeland security
and counter-terrorism adviser.

ISIS, the terror organization to which the hostage-takers are believed to be
linked, routinely encourage their supporters to make small-scale 'lone wolf'
attacks to be made against the West, particularly in the United States.

The FBI recently warned military personnel to disguise their presence on social
media and suppress identifying information in case they become targets in a
surprise attack.

The Sydney incident began just hours after a 25-year-old suspect was arrested in
a terror raid in Sydney.

Officials have also evacuated the Sydney Opera House after reports of a
suspicious device.

Martin Place has been shut down and scores of police are surrounding the
building after the alarm was raised about 9.45am.

Journalist Chris Kenny, who was in the shop about 20 minutes before the siege
began, said he understood the automatic glass sliding doors had been disabled.

'I did speak to a couple of people who saw a bit more of this unfold than I
did,' he said.

'One woman said she tried to go into the shop just after I came out with my
takeaway coffee but the doors wouldn't open.

'So obviously whoever is doing this has disabled the automatic glass sliding
doors to stop anyone else going in and she said immediately she could see there
was a weapon.

'The woman was quite frantic but very clear what she was telling (the police).

'I know the faces of the people who are sitting there enjoying a morning
coffee.'

The Seven Network newsroom, which is in a building opposite the cafe, has been
evacuated.

Other buildings in Martin Place, including the nearby Westpac building, have
been cleared.

'We're just recommending no one go near Martin Place at the moment,' a New South
Wales Police spokeswoman said.

Martin Place train station has been closed and public buses are being turned
away.

A staff member at the Reserve Bank told Daily Mail Australia they were unable to
be evacuated because Martin Place had been closed. Staff have been told to move
away from the windows.

Another woman who works in the government building opposite the cafe tried to
call her her office to say she couldn't get past cordons and all the phone lines
were down.

It was alleged that Omarjan Azari, the 22-year-old Sydney man arrested on
terrorism charges in September, was planning a public beheading in Martin Place.

The alleged terror plot, mentioned in a conversation between Australian
terrorism recruiter in Syria, Mohammad Ali Barylei and Azari, involved selecting
a member of the public at random, beheading them and then covering their body in
a flag.

The whole incident was going to be filmed, and then used as propaganda for the
ISIS cause.

Federal prosecutors said the alleged terror plot was 'clearly designed to shock,
horror and terrify the community'

Police Prosecutor Michael Allnutt said that Azari had made a threat which
involved a 'random selection of persons to execute' during a telephone
conversation with Baryalei.

Azari was arrested on September 18 and charged with preparing for an act of
terrorism.

He is due in court this week for a bail application.

The flag being held up in the window of the cafe is believed to be a Shahada
flag, which is used by the group Jabhat al Nusra.

Jabhat al Nusra was formed in January 2012, in the Syrian civil war to fight the
Syrian government forces.

Jabhat al Nusra, or JN, aims to overthrow the Assad regime and replace it with a
Sunni Islamic state.

Although the group is affiliated with al-Qaeda, Jabhat al-Nusra does not
emphasize Western targets or global jihad, focusing instead on the 'near enemy'
of the Syrian state.

Martin Place is one of Sydney's busiest streets and is at the center of the CBD.
The Lindt cafe where the hostages are being held specializes in chocolate and
has a number of branches across the city.

LOAD-DATE: December 15, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDM


                   Copyright 2014 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                               5 of 143 DOCUMENTS



                                   MailOnline

                     December 15, 2014 Monday 12:36 AM GMT

NYPD 'monitoring' terror attack in Sydney as gunmen force Australian hostages to
hold jihadist flag while police standoff develops

BYLINE: KIERAN CORCORAN FOR MAILONLINE and DAILY MAIL AUSTRALIA REPORTER

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 807 words



     ·    Armed men walked into the Lindt café in Sydney's Martin Place at
          9.45am
     ·    Up to 20 people including staff and customers are being held hostage
     ·    A black 'shahada' jihadist flag is being held up in the window
     ·    Reports that hostage-taker has a shotgun and possibly an explosive
          device
     ·    Heavily armed police have sealed off area around the café
     ·    NYPD said it is aware of the situation and watching closely
     ·    Jihadists regularly encourage 'lone wolf' attacks in Western countries
     ·    The United States is the most prominent target


Police in New York are monitoring a terrorist attack in Syndey, Australia, in
which as many as 20 people have been taken hostage.

An armed siege is developing after either one of two gunmen marched into a Lindt
cafe in the center of the city and forced sobbing hostages against the window.

Australian police have sealed off the surrounding streets amid fears the
attacker or attackers have a shotgun and explosives.

In light of the attack, the NYPD said they are 'aware of what's happening in
Australia', and later added: 'We are monitoring the situation in Sydney.'

Scroll down for video

ISIS, the terror cell to which the hostage-takers are believed to be linked,
routinely encourage their supporters to make small-scale 'lone wolf' attacks to
be made against the West, particularly in the United States.

The FBI recently warned military personnel to disguise their presence on social
media and suppress identifying information in case they become targets in a
surprise attack.

The Sydney incident began just hours after a 25-year-old suspect was arrested in
a terror raid in Sydney.

Officials have also evacuated the Sydney Opera House after reports of a
suspicious device.

Martin Place has been shut down and scores of police are surrounding the
building after the alarm was raised about 9.45am.

Journalist Chris Kenny, who was in the shop about 20 minutes before the siege
began, said he understood the automatic glass sliding doors had been disabled.

'I did speak to a couple of people who saw a bit more of this unfold than I
did,' he said.

'One woman said she tried to go into the shop just after I came out with my
takeaway coffee but the doors wouldn't open.

'So obviously whoever is doing this has disabled the automatic glass sliding
doors to stop anyone else going in and she said immediately she could see there
was a weapon.

'The woman was quite frantic but very clear what she was telling (the police).

'I know the faces of the people who are sitting there enjoying a morning
coffee.'

The Seven Network newsroom, which is in a building opposite the cafe, has been
evacuated.

Other buildings in Martin Place, including the nearby Westpac building, have
been cleared.

'We're just recommending no one go near Martin Place at the moment,' a New South
Wales Police spokeswoman said.

Martin Place train station has been closed and public buses are being turned
away.

A staff member at the Reserve Bank told Daily Mail Australia they were unable to
be evacuated because Martin Place had been closed. Staff have been told to move
away from the windows.

Another woman who works in the government building opposite the cafe tried to
call her her office to say she couldn't get past cordons and all the phone lines
were down.

It was alleged that Omarjan Azari, the 22-year-old Sydney man arrested on
terrorism charges in September, was planning a public beheading in Martin Place.

The alleged terror plot, mentioned in a conversation between Australian
terrorism recruiter in Syria, Mohammad Ali Barylei and Azari, involved selecting
a member of the public at random, beheading them and then covering their body in
a flag.

The whole incident was going to be filmed, and then used as propaganda for the
ISIS cause.

Federal prosecutors said the alleged terror plot was 'clearly designed to shock,
horror and terrify the community'

Police Prosecutor Michael Allnutt said that Azari had made a threat which
involved a 'random selection of persons to execute' during a telephone
conversation with Baryalei.

Azari was arrested on September 18 and charged with preparing for an act of
terrorism.

He is due in court this week for a bail application.

The flag being held up in the window of the cafe is believed to be a Shahada
flag, which is used by the group Jabhat al Nusra.

Jabhat al Nusra was formed in January 2012, in the Syrian civil war to fight the
Syrian government forces.

Jabhat al Nusra, or JN, aims to overthrow the Assad regime and replace it with a
Sunni Islamic state.

Although the group is affiliated with al-Qaeda, Jabhat al-Nusra does not
emphasize Western targets or global jihad, focusing instead on the 'near enemy'
of the Syrian state.

Martin Place is one of Sydney's busiest streets and is at the center of the CBD.
The Lindt cafe where the hostages are being held specializes in chocolate and
has a number of branches across the city.

LOAD-DATE: December 15, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDM


                   Copyright 2014 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                               6 of 143 DOCUMENTS



                                  mirror.co.uk

                     December 15, 2014 Monday 10:36 PM GMT

Nick Clegg: Tony Blair should face charges if he collaborated in post-9/11
torture;
The Lib Dem leader called for an inquiry into how much Blair and Jack Straw knew
about the CIA's abuse of terror suspects following September 11 attacks

BYLINE: By Jack Blanchard

SECTION: NEWS,UK NEWS

LENGTH: 292 words


Tony Blair and Jack Straw should face charges if they are found to have been
complicit in torture, Nick Clegg said today.

The Deputy PM said the "politicians in charge" at Westminster during the CIA's
brutal torture programme must be hauled before MPs for questioning.

He said prosecutors must act if laws were broken - even if those responsible
were spies, officials or politicians.

Mr Clegg said: "If people are found to break the law, be complicit in torture,
the full rule of the law should come down on them without fear or favour -
however operational or grand they were."

Both ex-PM Mr Blair and his former Foreign Secretary Mr Straw deny having been
aware of any mistreatment of terror suspects while in office.

A spokesman for Mr Blair said he had "never condoned torture".

But questions continue to be asked about how much Britain knew of the CIA's
horrific abuse of terror suspects after 9/11, which included waterboarding, or
simulated drowing.

Home Secretary Theresa May yesterday denied asking for the blacking-out of parts
of last week's US Senate committee report, which revealed the scale of abuse.

But she did concede British officials may have requested that they should be
redacted to protect national security.

She continued to dismiss calls for a full judge-led inquiry into Britain's role
in the abuse and instead backed the ongoing inquiry by the Commons intelligence
and security committee chaired by former Tory Foreign Secretary Sir Malcolm
Rifkind.

Mr Clegg made it clear the ISC should call Mr Blair and Mr Straw to give
evidence.

He added: "If, after all of that, there are still question marks that need to be
addressed, then let's have a full judicial inquiry."

CIA interrogation techniques were applied subjectively, Senate report says

LOAD-DATE: December 16, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDMI


                      Copyright 2014 Trinity Mirror, Plc.
                              All Rights Reserved

                               7 of 143 DOCUMENTS



                                 Post Magazine

                            December 15, 2014 Monday

Suspected terrorist attack in heart of Sydney

BYLINE: Andrew Tjaardstra

LENGTH: 217 words



HIGHLIGHT: Hostages held by an Islamic extremist with a shotgun and possible
accomplices in siege at coffee shop in Sydney's central business district.


    Hostages held by an Islamic extremist with a shotgun and possible
accomplices in siege at coffee shop in Sydney's central business district.

A police spokesman said police officers were called to the Lindt Chocolate Café,
in Sydney's Martin Place, a major shopping and pedestrian area in the central
business district at around 10am local time this morning.

Although no number has been confirmed, witnesses suggested there are around 10
staff and 30 customers in the cafe. Five hostages have since escaped.

A flag with an Arabic inscription was raised by some of the hostages in the
window of the cafe leading some to speculate it could be an Islamist linked
terror attack. In addition the gunman is wearing a headband covered in Arabic.

An area has been cordoned off by hundreds of police as they try to work out how
to resolve the issue.

There is evidence the gunman is carrying explosives.

Many businesses including the Channel 7 news operation which is opposite the
cafe and several banks have been evacuated. In addition the US has evacuated its
Australian consulate and many railway stations in the city have been closed.

The situation is ongoing and Australia's Prime Minister Tony Abbott has urged
Australians to keep calm and try as much as possible to keep a normal day by
using public transport.

LOAD-DATE: December 15, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Magazine


                     Copyright 2014 Incisive Media Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               8 of 143 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                      December 15, 2014 Monday 9:26 PM GMT

The global rise of terror 'lone wolf' attacks;
The Sydney siege seems to be the latest in a series of attacks this year by
jihadists responding to call for "lone wolf" attackers to strike back at the
West

BYLINE: By Malcom Moore video by Keely Lockhart

LENGTH: 457 words


An increasing number of "lone wolf" terrorists are responding to the West's
battle against the Islamic State by launching attacks at home.

This year there have been a series of attacks in Ottawa, Brussels and New York
by Islamists responding to calls from the Islamic State to kill non-believers
wherever they can.

"We have been seeing more and more lone attackers as a trend and Isil has pushed
the idea even further and it seems to be resonating more intensely," said
Raffaello Pantucci, a counter terrorism expert at the Royal United Services
Institute.

In Australia, police foiled a plot in September after intercepting a phone call
from an Isil leader instructing followers to randomly behead a non-Muslim in
Martin Place, the scene of yesterday's siege, and capture it on camera.

"There is no doubt that many of these guys had notions of being under siege as
Muslims. Some have not had the wherewithal to make it to the battlefield. They
think they are being watched and that if they try to make it to a plane they
will be put in jail so they do something locally," said Thomas Sanderson, a
counter terrorism expert at the Centre for Strategic and International Studies
in Washington.

Isil is now "the vanguard of the global jihad," he said, adding: "They are not
holed up in bunkers in Pakistan, they are on the battlefield. Who are you going
to want to join?"

In May, 29-year-old Mehdi Nemmouche, who was under surveillance by the French
police after he returned from fighting for Isil in Syria, launched a gun attack
at the Jewish museum in Brussels, killing four.

In October, Martin Couture Rouleau, 25, ran down two Canadian soldiers in Quebec
in his car, killing one of them. Couture Rouleau was known to the authorities as
someone who had been radicalised and police had seized his passport in July as
he tried to fly to Turkey.

"On the map, there is a major concentration in the North East of the United
States, with attacks in Detroit, Boston, New York and Ottawa. They are going for
high-density media markets. Sydney fits."

Mr Pantucci said it is difficult for counter terrorism officials to catch lone
operators. "It is a lot harder because intelligence relies on setting trip wires
that people cross when they communicate with each other. If people are not
talking to others and they are plotting attacks with stuff they can find in
their household, like knives, it is a lot harder to find them."

Meanwhile, researchers said that "lone wolf" terrorists are more likely to have
mental health problems than terrorists working in a group. Two studies, one by
Indiana State university and one by University College London found that between
one-third and 40 per cent of lone wolf attackers had identifiable mental health
problems.

LOAD-DATE: December 16, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTNS


                  Copyright 2014 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               9 of 143 DOCUMENTS


                 BBC Monitoring Former Soviet Union - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                           December 16, 2014 Tuesday

Official says no terrorist attack carried out in Russia in 2014

LENGTH: 193 words


Text of report by Russian state-owned TASS news agency (formerly ITAR-TASS)

Moscow, 16 December: A system of combating terrorism created in Russia made it
possible this year to prevent terrorist attacks, the first deputy head of the
National Antiterrorism Committee (NAC), Yevgeniy Ilyin, has said at a news
conference in Moscow.

"The potential of the bandit underground which enabled them to carry out armed
attacks, including attempts to attack entire cities as it happened in Nalchik
and Nazran at the time, has been destroyed to this date," Ilyin said.

"As many as 779 terrorism-related crimes were committed in 2010 and 70 this
year. In 2010, 21 terrorist attacks were carried out and no terrorist attacks
happened this year," he said.

A representative of NAC, Andrey Przhezdomskiy, noted that "the normalization of
the situation is apparent today as the number of shootings and explosions has
decreased. No suicide terrorists who could have blown themselves up were
established". In addition, he added, "the spreading of terrorism-related crimes
outside the North Caucasus has been prevented".

Source: TASS news agency, Moscow, in Russian 0847 gmt 16 Dec 14

LOAD-DATE: December 16, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2014 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              10 of 143 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring Middle East - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                           December 16, 2014 Tuesday

Iran strongly condemns Peshawar "terrorist" attack

LENGTH: 307 words


Text of report in English by website of Iranian conservative Tasnim news agency

Tehran, 16 December: Iran's foreign ministry spokeswoman on Tuesday [16
December] condemned in the strongest terms the terrorist attack on a school in
the Pakistani city of Peshawar.

"This is a totally un-Islamic and inhumane action," Marziyeh Afkham said, adding
that terrorism, extremism and putting innocent people's lives at risk in any
form and with any purpose are reprehensible.

She also expressed sympathy with the government and nation of Pakistan,
especially the bereaved families of victims.

Afkham further said cooperation among the regional countries and the world
community is necessary in order to fight terrorism and extremism.

At least 130 people, most of them students as young as 12, were killed and at
least 122 others injured on Tuesday in a Taleban seizure of a military-run
school in Peshawar.

The numbers of dead and injured may still rise as the casualties of the assault
are counted.

Some 500 students and teachers were in the Army Public School on Warsak Road at
the time of the attack. Pakistan's military said most of the civilians escaped,
but some had been taken hostage by the assailants.

Several militants dressed in Pakistani military uniforms entered the school
compound on Tuesday at around noon. They torched a car at the site and proceeded
with a raid on the facility.

The Pakistani Army responded to the emergency, dispatching security forces to
cordon off the area and sending military helicopters for surveillance. A
commando force arrived at the site.

In the ensuing battle with Pakistani security forces, all six militants were
killed, according to the military. One of them is said to have detonated a
suicide vest he was wearing, according to local media.

Source: Tasnim news agency website, Tehran, in English 1615 gmt 16 Dec 14

LOAD-DATE: December 16, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2014 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              11 of 143 DOCUMENTS



                                  The Guardian

                     December 16, 2014 Tuesday 10:17 PM GMT

Sydney-style terror attack could happen in UK at any time, says David Cameron;
PM says security services can't always prevent 'self-starting, sometimes quite
random' attacks like siege of Lindt cafe

BYLINE: Patrick Wintour and Vikram Dodd

SECTION: UK NEWS

LENGTH: 686 words


An attack similar to the one in Sydney's Lindt cafe could happen in Britain at
any moment, David Cameron has said, warning that such attacks were very
difficult to prevent.

The threat faced by the UK included "self-starting, sometimes quite random
attacks that could happen at any moment", the prime minister told MPs on
Tuesday.

"We have seen, over the last few months, there have been a series of plots that
have been detected and prevented, that would have seen police officers or other
authority figures murdered in cold blood, as Lee Rigby was murdered in cold
blood.

"It's thanks to the brilliance of our policing and security services that these
things have been prevented.

"But we can't count on them to prevent it every time, because it's one thing
understanding the terror networks coming out of Pakistan or Afghanistan or Iraq
and Syria, and trying to monitor what they are doing and who is going and who is
returning.

"That's one thing, but people who are self-radicalised, often on the internet,
who then suddenly do appalling things, that is much more difficult to prevent."

Man Haron Monis, who took cafe staff and customers hostage in Sydney, was
described as a "lone-wolf" attacker - operating without the support of a wider
network, carrying out a low-technology attack, which required little planning,
and was thus much harder to prevent. In Britain a significant number of
counter-terrorism officials fear that such an attack is a matter of when, not
if.

After the large-scale attacks in the past decade - in the US, Madrid and London
- counter-terrorism efforts became more successful at chasing down those
involved, and identifying the materials they needed to cause large numbers of
casualties.

In contrast, the lone wolf would not be traceable as part of a wider network,
nor need lots of equipment.

Monis had only a gun; those who butchered Rigby last year had knives bought from
an everyday store.

This summer Islamic State called for attacks by followers in the west by
whatever means were to hand, but in extremist circles the idea was propagated
earlier by Anwar al-Awlaki, the US-born Islamist cleric eventually killed in a
drone strike.

In online sermons, he preached the need for violent action and urged followers
to do what they could, when they could.

Peter Clarke, former head of counter-terrorism at Scotland Yard, believes the
label of "lone wolf" is a mistake: "They are not lone wolves. All these people
share the same intolerant ideology; it's just a different method of attack.

"Instead of the big, set-piece attack, these are people responding to calls from
terrorist leaders to attack when they can.

"Their ideology is driven by intolerance, not by religion, race or nationality."

Clarke advocates a more vigorous drive against the ideology of extremism, not
just on calls for violence: "You have to work on the ideology."

Jahan Mahmood, a former adviser to the UK government on countering extremism,
disagrees, saying the west is ignoring the way its own mistakes and policies
lead to widespread grievances, which a minority believe should be answered with
violence. He said: "These people are not following a structured ideology, and
yes, they are brutal people."

"The focus has been on ideology, [but] there is a lot of grievance-led anger,
and we're not looking at that."

Mahmood, who now runs anti-extremism programmes independent of the government,
points to Monis's rhetoric against Australia's involvement in Afghanistan, and
sees similarities with other justifications for acts of violence: "The lone wolf
is anger- and grievance-led.""The focus has been on ideology, [but] there is a
lot of grievance-led anger, and we're not looking at that."

Clarke and Mahmood agree that since 2001 the momentum is with the jihadis.

Mahmood said: "We are losing; we're losing the hearts and minds of our
communities, never mind the extremist world. We are creating the circumstances
for anti-western perspectives."

Clarke said: "Four years ago the sense was that the west had momentum, al-Qaida
was in decline, and the Arab spring marked a new beginning. That sense of
optimism has now dissipated."

LOAD-DATE: December 16, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBGNS


  Copyright 2014 The Guardian, a division of Transcontinental Media Group Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              12 of 143 DOCUMENTS



                               Independent.co.uk

                     December 16, 2014 Tuesday 4:23 PM GMT

Sydney hostage crisis in pictures: Australia mourns with sea of flowers at site
of Martin Place terror attack;
'Our laid-back nature has just changed'

BYLINE: Adam Withnall

SECTION: AUSTRALASIA

LENGTH: 530 words


Tearful Sydney residents led Australian tributes today at the site where a
gunman and two hostages were shot dead following a 16-hour siege at a popular
cafe.

The deadlock was broken in the small hours of Monday night with a barrage of
gunfire that has rocked a nation which prides itself on peace to its core.

Prime Minister Tony Abbott joined the outpouring of national mourning and laid a
bouquet at Martin Place. The plaza in Sydney's financial and shopping district
where the crisis occurred that has since become the site of a makeshift
memorial.

"I'll never forget this day as long as I live," said Jenny Borovina, who was in
tears with two friends carrying white flowers to the site. The effect of the
standoff would leave a permanent scar on Australia's psyche, she predicted. "Our
laid-back nature has just changed."

Like so many who work in the area, Borovina said she was locked down in her
office near the cafe for more than four hours Monday before police gave her the
all-clear to leave. During that time, she said, she called her son to say take
care. She also called her aunt, asking her to look after her son if she didn't
make it out alive.

"Australia was a really safe place before," said Andrea Wang, who laid a bouquet
of lilies at the site, near her office.

"I hope our country gets through this very quickly," she said, adding that her
family from China had been calling. "They worry about me in this country."

The gunman has been identified as 50-year-old Man Haron Monis, who Mr Abbott
said had "a long history of violent crime, infatuation with extremism and mental
instability."

Abbott said Monis was "a deeply disturbed individual" known to the police but
that he was not on a terror watch list at the time of yesterday's attack.

One of the victims was identified as 38-year-old Katrina Dawson, a Sydney lawyer
and mother of three children.

"Katrina was one of our best and brightest barristers who will be greatly missed
by her colleagues and friends" Jane Needham, president of the New South Wales
Bar Association, said in a statement.

The other victim was named in Australian media as the 34-year-old manager of the
cafe, Tori Johnson.

"It's shocking that it has happened to people like us that are just going out
for a coffee," said Michael Gardiner, a visitor from the western city of Perth,
who recalled sitting in the cafe about a year ago. "But it's beautiful to see
everyone coming here. There's a real sense of community."

National flags were lowered to half-staff on the landmark Harbour Bridge as
Australians awakened to the surreal conclusion of the crisis. The state's
premier expressed disbelief that the attack could happen in Australia - a place
he dubbed "a peaceful, harmonious society which is the envy of the world."
Sydney siege: Australia mourns with sea of flowers at site of Martin Place
terror attack

"There is nothing more Australian than dropping in at the local cafe for a
morning coffee," said Abbott, the prime minister. "And it's tragic beyond words
that people going about their everyday business should have been caught up in
such a horrific incident."

Additional reporting by The Associated Press

LOAD-DATE: December 16, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBI


           Copyright 2014 Independent Digital News and Media Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              13 of 143 DOCUMENTS



                               Independent.co.uk

                     December 16, 2014 Tuesday 4:10 PM GMT

Sydney siege: How should we respond to such an act of terror?;
Yesterday's attack has proven that we all have a role to play in tackling
extremism

BYLINE: Jonathan Russell

SECTION: FRONTPAGE

LENGTH: 589 words


The siege and hostage-taking incident in Sydney encapsulated many of the current
debates surrounding global terrorism and our understanding of it.

First there the misinformed debate about the flag held up in the Lindt Café by
the man we now know to be Man Haron Monis. Insistence that this was the Islamic
State flag was met with counter-claims that it was the Jabhat al-Nusra or the
Hizb ut-Tahrir flag.

An over-emphasis on the group affiliation of the hostage taker came at the
expense of sensible analysis about his actions. In fact, the flag belongs to
none of the above groups but has been misappropriated by Islamists and jihadists
in the last 40 years.

We're not in a generational struggle against Islamic State the organisation,
rather Islamic state the idea and all those who want to realise this idea.
Today's attacks on a school in Peshawar may look different and the Taliban may
identify different grievances, but the Islamist ideology and worldview are
shared.

READ MORE'Lone wolf' attackers will always remain a security nightmareAustralia
has had its sense of invulnerability shattered

But the most worrying aspect is the re-emergence of the "lone wolf" jihadist.
The lack of a link between Monis and Islamic State so far will quell many fears,
but it does the opposite for me. If there is no command and control from Raqqa,
we can't use laws to prevent it.

There are two ways we can go: we can further expand laws to tackle extremist
ideas and those who pursue them, or we can consider other approaches that may be
more effective at tackling self-starting loners, online and offline
radicalisation, as well as the pre-eminent jihadist brand. In liberal
democracies, the latter is surely preferable to the former.

Terror in Sydney: how the siege unfolded

Personal responsibility online is another issue that appears on these occasions.
With the accessibility of social media and the internet, we are all able to
share the news, be the news, contribute to the debate and have access to an
unprecedented level of information; in many cases, we are the media.

We must therefore all avoid sensationalised analysis that tars all Muslims with
the violent brush that jihadists choose for themselves. We must also strive to
understand the differences between Islam and Islamism and use the appropriate
language to discuss such incidents.

Failure to get this right alienates Muslims the world over who abhor this
violence. It also grants undue legitimacy to those who misappropriate Islam for
political means, and even stokes grievances relating to anti-Muslim hatred,
which are exploited by Islamists for their own radicalising and recruitment
ends.

On an individual basis, we must avoid fetishising the jihadist cause and feeding
the egos of Islamic State members with excessive coverage, but instead fight
back. To this end, the excellent work of the Australian-based People against
Violent Extremism (PaVE), and the hashtag #illridewithyou, shows the power of
civil society-led counter-narratives to extremism, which are a positive way that
we can all challenge the ideology and the strategy of Islamists and jihadists.

Loner attacks like this are notoriously difficult for police forces to combat,
yet they have the potential to affect all people all over the world. Before we
are all overcome with the terror that terrorists seek to instil, we need to
educate ourselves on flags, media responsibility, and the ideology that is the
root of this medieval barbarism.

READ MOREMuslims need much more than #IllRideWithYou's hollow symbolism

LOAD-DATE: December 16, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBI


           Copyright 2014 Independent Digital News and Media Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              14 of 143 DOCUMENTS



                            The Independent (London)

                           December 16, 2014 Tuesday
                                 First Edition

Terrorism 2.0: the killer who filmed his attack;
* Two civilians and a gunman dead in 16-hour siege in Sydney * 'Lone wolf'
posted Islamist videos of his captives online * Australia in shock following
first terror attack since 1986

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 25 words


Hostages flee from the Lindt café in Martin Place yesterday after police stormed
the premises to end Man Haron Monis's 16-hour siege

JOOSEP MARTINSON/GETTY

LOAD-DATE: December 15, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: IA


                      Copyright 2014 Independent Print Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                              15 of 143 DOCUMENTS



                                   MailOnline

                     December 16, 2014 Tuesday 5:53 PM GMT

Britain could be hit 'at any moment' by Sydney-style lone wolf terror attack,
Cameron warns MPs

BYLINE: MATT CHORLEY, POLITICAL EDITOR FOR MAILONLINE

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 831 words



     ·    Prime Minister says series of plots 'have been detected and prevented'
     ·    Attacks would have seen UK police officers 'murdered in cold blood'
     ·    Two hostages killed and Islamic extremist Man Haron Monis shot dead
     ·    Cameron warns it demonstrates the terror threat all over the world
     ·    UK government finds an extra £130million to counter 'lone wolf'
          attacks


Britain could be hit 'at any moment' by a Sydney-style terror attack, David
Cameron told MPs today.

The Prime Minister said the Australian attack, in which two hostages died and
Islamic extremist Man Haron Monis was killed, was a reminder of the danger
Britain faces.

He told MPs there had already been a series of plots by lone wolf terrorists
which had been detected and stopped.

The Prime Minister, appearing before senior MPs at the Commons Liaison
Committee, said: 'The threat we face definitely includes those sort of
self-starting, sometimes quite random attacks that could happen at any moment in
Britain.

'We've seen over the last few months there have been a series of plots that have
been detected and prevented that would have seen police officers or other
authorities murdered in cold blood.

'It's thanks to the brilliance of our security services that these things have
been prevented.'

But Mr Cameron warned that people who were 'self-radicalised on the internet'
were much harder to stop than known extremists who had travelled to the Middle
East.

The Prime Minister's remarks come amid widespread horror at the twin terror
attacks in Sydney and Pakistan which have left more than hundred people dead.

In Sydney, the Iranian asylum seeker Monis struck terror into the heart of the
city's financial district after taking 17 staff and customers hostages inside
the Lindt cafe in Martin Place for 16 hours.

The 50-year-old gunman is believed to have fired the first shots, which sparked
teams of heavily armed police to swoop on the café at 2am on Tuesday.

Tori Johnson, the café manager, and barrister mother-of-three Katrina Dawson
were the two hostages killed during the bloody climax to the stand-off.

The tragedy came before Taliban gunmen stormed a school in Pakistan and
slaughtered 132 children today.

Speaking before the siege in Australia came to an end yesterday Mr Cameron
warned that the tragedy may have been played out more than 10,000 miles away,
but it could be repeated in Britain.

The Prime Minister told LBC Radio: 'Obviously it's an extremely worrying
situation. It demonstrates the challenge we face of Islamist extremist violence
all over the world.

'This is on the other side of the world but is the sort of thing that could just
as well happen here in the UK or in Europe.'

He said Australia was a country 'very close to our hearts', adding: 'We very
much stand with the Australians at their time of need. It is a reminder of the
threat that we face and the need to be vigilant.'

Police and security officials have warned it is 'almost inevitable' that Britain
will be hit by an attack by fanatics who have been 'militarised' by Islamic
State.

Mr Cameron announced last month that an extra £130million will be made available
over the next two years for the security services to 'monitor and disrupt those
self-starting terrorists'.

A new legal obligation will be imposed on universities, prisons, councils and
schools to play their part in tackling 'this poisonous extremism', the Prime
Minister said.

Mr Cameron told MPs: 'The reason for providing some extra money today is that
there is a specific and growing challenge from these self-starting-they are
sometimes called 'lone wolf'-jihadis, who have been radicalised on the internet
because of what has been happening in Syria but are not necessarily linked up
with other terrorist networks.

'That puts extra pressure on and we need to respond to that.'

Soldier Lee Rigby was murdered by two Muslim converts who ambushed him as he
walked back to his barracks in Woolwich, South East London, last year.

The security agencies face unprecedented pressure to prevent similar attacks by
extremists acting alone, but it is much harder to detect and disrupt plots if
they are not part of a wider terror network.

Met police chief Sir Bernard Hogan-Howe warned: 'It doesn't take an awful lot of
organising, doesn't take too many to conspire together, there's no great
complexity to it.

'So that means we have got a very short time to interdict, to actually intervene
and make sure that these people don't get away with it.'

Unveiling new laws to counter the extremist threat, Home Secretary Theresa May
revealed 40 terrorists plots have been thwarted in Britain since the July 7
attacks nine years ago.

The foiled atrocities including 'marauding' 'Mumbai-style' gun attacks streets,
an attempt to blow up the London Stock Exchange and airplanes, and murder troops
and a British ambassador.

Unveiling a raft of new counter-terror measures in November, the Home Secretary
warned the threat to Britain is 'greater than it ever has been' and stressed the
terrorists 'only have to be lucky once'.

LOAD-DATE: December 16, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDM


                   Copyright 2014 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              16 of 143 DOCUMENTS



                                   MailOnline

                     December 16, 2014 Tuesday 9:36 AM GMT

Sydney cafe siege could just as easily have happened in Britain, Cameron warns
amid rising fears of lone wolf terror attacks

BYLINE: MATT CHORLEY, POLITICAL EDITOR FOR MAILONLINE

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 666 words



     ·    Prime Minister hails Australia as a country 'very close to our hearts'
     ·    Two hostages killed and Islamic extremist Man Haron Monis shot dead
     ·    Cameron warns it demonstrates the terror threat all over the world
     ·    UK government finds an extra £130million to counter 'lone wolf'
          attacks


The Sydney café siege could easily have happened in Britain, David Cameron has
warned amid fears of the threat posed by 'lone wolf' extremists.

The Prime Minister said the attack, in which two hostages died and Islamic
extremist Man Haron Monis was killed, was a reminder of the danger Britain
faces.

He will be quizzed by MPs today on tackling radicalisation, including extremism
in schools and the risks of allowing foreign fighters to return to the UK.

Monis struck terror into the heart of Sydney's financial district after taking
17 staff and customers hostages inside the Lindt cafe in Martin Place for 16
hours.

The 50-year-old gunman is believed to have fired the first shots, which sparked
teams of heavily armed police to swoop on the café at 2am on Tuesday.

Tori Johnson, the café manager, and barrister mother-of-three Katrina Dawson
were the two hostages killed during the bloody climax to the stand-off. Speaking
before the siege came to an end, Mr Cameron warned that the tragedy may have
been played out more than 10,000 miles away, but it could be repeated in
Britain.

The Prime Minister told LBC Radio: 'Obviously it's an extremely worrying
situation. It demonstrates the challenge we face of Islamist extremist violence
all over the world.

'This is on the other side of the world but is the sort of thing that could just
as well happen here in the UK or in Europe.'

He said Australia was a country 'very close to our hearts', adding: 'We very
much stand with the Australians at their time of need. It is a reminder of the
threat that we face and the need to be vigilant.'

Police and security officials have warned it is 'almost inevitable' that Britain
will be hit by an attack by fanatics who have been 'militarised' by Islamic
State.

Mr Cameron announced last month that an extra £130million will be made available
over the next two years for the security services to 'monitor and disrupt those
self-starting terrorists'.

A new legal obligation will be imposed on universities, prisons, councils and
schools to play their part in tackling 'this poisonous extremism', the Prime
Minister said.

Mr Cameron told MPs: 'The reason for providing some extra money today is that
there is a specific and growing challenge from these self-starting-they are
sometimes called 'lone wolf'-jihadis, who have been radicalised on the internet
because of what has been happening in Syria but are not necessarily linked up
with other terrorist networks.

'That puts extra pressure on and we need to respond to that.'

Soldier Lee Rigby was murdered by two Muslim converts who ambushed him as he
walked back to his barracks in Woolwich, South East London, last year.

The security agencies face unprecedented pressure to prevent similar attacks by
extremists acting alone, but it is much harder to detect and disrupt plots if
they are not part of a wider terror network.

Met police chief Sir Bernard Hogan-Howe warned: 'It doesn't take an awful lot of
organising, doesn't take too many to conspire together, there's no great
complexity to it.

'So that means we have got a very short time to interdict, to actually intervene
and make sure that these people don't get away with it.'

Unveiling new laws to counter the extremist threat, Home Secretary Theresa May
revealed 40 terrorists plots have been thwarted in Britain since the July 7
attacks nine years ago.

The foiled atrocities including 'marauding' 'Mumbai-style' gun attacks streets,
an attempt to blow up the London Stock Exchange and airplanes, and murder troops
and a British ambassador.

Unveiling a raft of new counter-terror measures in November, the Home Secretary
warned the threat to Britain is 'greater than it ever has been' and stressed the
terrorists 'only have to be lucky once'.

LOAD-DATE: December 16, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDM


                   Copyright 2014 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              17 of 143 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                     December 16, 2014 Tuesday 8:31 PM GMT

David Cameron: Britain could face Sydney-style attack 'at any moment';
David Cameron warns that it is 'much more difficult' to prevent random terror
attacks carried out by lone individuals

BYLINE: By Steven Swinford Senior Political Correspondent

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 308 words


Britain could face a random attack similar to the Sydney siege in which three
people died "at any moment", David Cameron has said.

The Prime Minister said that attacks carried out by a lone extremist are "much
more difficult to prevent" as he paid tribute to the "extraordinary bravery" of
those caught up in the siege on Monday.

He disclosed that the security services have prevented several terror attacks in
Britain which would have seen police officers murdered in "cold blood".

He also described the murder of 141 people by the Taliban at a school in
Pakistan, most of them children, as a "dark, dark day for humanity".

Mr Cameron told MPs: "The threat we face definitely includes those sorts of
self-starting, sometimes quite random attacks that could happen at any moment in
Britain.

"We have seen, over the last few months, there have been a series of plots that
have been detected and prevented that would have seen police officers or other
authority figures murdered in cold blood, as Lee Rigby was murdered in cold
blood.

"It's thanks to the brilliance of our policing and security services that these
things have been prevented.

"But we can't count on them to prevent it every time because it's one thing
understanding the terror networks coming out of Pakistan or Afghanistan or Iraq
and Syria and trying to monitor what they are doing and who is going and who is
returning.

"That's one thing, but people who are self-radicalised, often on the internet,
who then suddenly do appalling things, that is much more difficult to prevent."

He added: "But he added: "Could it have been prevented? ... Even if this
individual, this sick and disturbed individual, had been front and centre on our
watchlists, even if this individual had been monitored 24 hours a day, it's
quite likely - certainly possible - that this incident could have taken place."

LOAD-DATE: December 16, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTNS


                  Copyright 2014 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              18 of 143 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                     December 16, 2014 Tuesday 7:02 PM GMT

Q&A: How will the school attack affect Pakistani politics?;
Living in constant fear of terror attacks is an unfortunate reality for many
Pakistanis, but they refuse to desensitise themselves from such atrocities,
writes Maryyum Mehmood

BYLINE: By Maryyum Mehmood

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 579 words


The morning of December 16, 2014 began like any other school day for the
children at Peshawar's Army Public School in Pakistan.

But hours later, Taliban gunmen stormed the school in the worst attack in
Pakistan in years. The death toll stood at 141 on Tuesday afternoon, with the
majority of victims being children.

Three days of countrywide mourning have been announced across Pakistan, a nation
desperately seeking to release itself from the stranglehold of terror.

For an older generation, December 16 is already significant for another reason -
the date marks the loss of the former eastern half of Pakistan, which became
Bangladesh following secession after the 1971 war.

What are the implications on the political front?

The current Pakistan Muslim League Noon (PML-N) government headed by Nawaz
Sharif has been under immense pressure following allegations of election fraud
and corruption.

This was exacerbated in mid-August, thanks to nationwide rallies led by the
Pakistan Thereek-e-Insaf (PTI) chairman Imran Khan, which were attended by
hundreds of thousands of people.

But while many Pakistani civilians may hope that the Peshawar attack serves as
the final blow in ousting the Nawaz government, it is highly unlikely.

If anything, the Peshawar attack will hinder PTI's anti-government campaign.
After wrapping up the Lahore leg of his rallies, Mr Khan was expected to lead
his caravan of protesters to Peshawar on December 18. This has now been
postponed indefinitely.

Furthermore, this attack will bring major setbacks to the Khyber Pakhtunkhwa
(KPK) federal government, which is run by Mr Khan's PTI.

How will Pakistan respond?

Earlier this year, the government of Pakistan signalled a need for greater
dialogue with the Thereek-e-Taliban Pakistan (TTP) terrorists.

Even then, political commentators and the Pakistani public alike lambasted this
proclamation of peace talks. Nawaz Sharif, the prime minister, made the
announcement in late-January, when suicide blasts and relatively small-scale
attacks by the TTP were routine. In the wake of the most recent attack, it seems
that negotiating with the enemy will be off the cards. Army operations will most
likely be ramped up in the country's north west regions.

How will this affect public opinion?

Undoubtedly, the horrific attack has sent shock waves across the country, as
well as amongst the diaspora resident in the West.

Inside Pakistan, civil society, which had somewhat lost its voice, has already
stepped up to arrange peaceful demonstrations and vigils.

Meanwhile British students of Pakistani origin have organised for candle vigils
to be held in London on Wednesday.

Along with widespread condemnation and further pressure being placed on the
already crumbling Sharif government, Tuesday's events will likely heighten
public support for the Pakistan Army, reminiscent of the civilian backing of the
army's counter-TTP operation in 2009.

Living in constant fear of terror attacks is an unfortunate reality for many
Pakistanis, but they refuse to desensitise themselves from such atrocities. The
immediate public outpouring signals renewed hope for Pakistan, a country in the
midst of chaos, but adamantly united in the face of a cowardly enemy.

Maryyum Mehmood is a PhD researcher at the Department of War Studies, King's
College London

LOAD-DATE: December 16, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTNS


                  Copyright 2014 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              19 of 143 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                     December 16, 2014 Tuesday 6:10 PM GMT

Malala urges Pakistan leaders to 'stand up to terrorism' following Taliban
school attack;
Nobel peace laureate Malala Yousafzai, who was shot in the head by the Taliban
in 2012, says she is "heartbroken" by the attack on a school in Pakistan

BYLINE: By Telegraph Video and agencies

LENGTH: 200 words


Nobel peace laureate Malala Yousafzai, who was shot in the head by the Taliban
in 2012, said she was "heartbroken" by "the senseless and cold blooded" killing
of scores of children by Taliban militants on Tuesday in Pakistan.

At least 141 people, most of them children, were killed when gunmen stormed an
army-run school in Pakistan's northwestern city of Peshawar in an act that drew
swift global condemnation.

"I am heartbroken by this senseless and cold blooded act of terror in Peshawar
that is unfolding before us. Innocent children in their school have no place in
horror such as this," Malala said.

"I condemn these atrocious and cowardly acts and stand united with the
government and armed forces of Pakistan whose efforts so far to address this
horrific event are commendable."

Seventeen-year-old Malala, who now lives in Britain, became a global icon after
she was shot and nearly killed by the Taliban in her native Pakistan in October
2012 for insisting that girls had a right to an education.

The Tehreek-e-Taliban Pakistan (TTP) claimed responsibility for the attack as
retaliation for a major military offensive in the region, saying militants had
been ordered to shoot older students.

LOAD-DATE: December 16, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTNS


                  Copyright 2014 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              20 of 143 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                     December 16, 2014 Tuesday 5:07 PM GMT

The world's five worst terror attacks involving children;
The only parallels in modern history to today's Taliban attack on a Pakistan
school were those by Islamist militant separatists on a Beslan school in North
Ossetia, and the lone wolf killing of scores of teenagers by Anders Breivik in
Norway

BYLINE: By Richard Spencer Middle East Correspondent

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 632 words


Terrorist atrocities which kill scores or even hundreds of civilians have become
almost humdrum, such is the weaponry and opportunity easily available for those
who would do harm. But it is rare, even in the minds of terrorists advocating
"ultimate tactics", to target children first.

The only parallels in modern history are the attack by Islamist militant
separatists on a school in the town of Beslan, North Ossetia, an autonomous
Russian region, and the lone wolf killing of scores of teenagers at a summer
youth camp by Anders Breivik in Norway.

The 2004 Beslan siege, conducted by militants from Chechnya and Ingushetia
regions, bore close parallels to the attack in Peshawar, Pakistan.

Gunmen seized Beslan's School Number One on September 1, the first day of the
school year when it was packed with pupils and parents.

They held more than 1,000 people including 777 children hostage for three days,
opening fire when their booby-traps began to explode and the Russian security
forces attempted to retake the building.

In all, at least 385 people were killed, including 156 children. The youngest
was two years old.

On July 22, 2011, Anders Breivik bombed government buildings in Oslo and then
attacked a Labour Party youth camp on the Norwegian island of Utoye, as a
protest against immigration, particularly by Muslims. He was diagnosed as
suffering a longstanding personality disorder.

Of his 77 victims, 69 of them on Utoye, 55 were teenagers, the youngest being
14.

The biggest single loss of children to a terrorist attack may have been suffered
by the Yazidi community in northern Iraq, who have again been heavily targeted
by the jihadists of Islamic State of Iraq and the Levant this year.

Four co-ordinated bombings by Isil's predecessor, Al-Qaeda in Iraq, in two
Yazidi towns in August 2007 were later estimated to have killed 796 people, by
far the worst single incident of the post-invasion civil war.

A large proportion of the dead are thought to have been women and children.
However, the remoteness of the area, the prevalence of violence, and the
isolation of the Yazidi community meant no full list of victims was ever
published.

The 9/11 attacks, generally regarded as the worst single atrocity of recent
years by overall numbers killed, saw comparatively few child victims. The main
targets - the World Trade Centre towers and the Pentagon - were places of work,
and it was a school-day.

All eight children killed were on the planes used by the hi-jackers.

Nineteen children died in a nursery attached to a federal building in Oklahoma
City, United States, bombed by two far-right activists, Timothy McVeigh and
Terry Nichols, in 1995. They were not the direct targets, however, and in total
168 people were killed.

The nearest equivalent in the United Kingdom was the mass killing by Thomas
Hamilton of 16 children and a teacher at Dunblane Primary School, in 1996.
However, the killer in that case was motivated by personal grievance rather than
politics.

Worst terrorist attacks involving children:

Beslan school siege, Russia, in which 156 children died at the hands of Chechen
and Ingush Islamist militants. September 1-3, 2004

Bombings of Al-Qataniyah and Al-Adnaniyah, Yazidi towns in north-west Iraq, in
which 796 people were killed, many of them children. August 14, 2007.

Shootings at Peshawar Army Public School, Pakistan, by the Taliban, in which at
least 100 children died. December 16, 2014.

A suicide bombing of a crowd welcoming a delegation of MPs to a factory in
Baghlani-jadid, Afghanistan, killed an estimated 77 people, 61 of them children.
November 6, 2007.

Utoye island shootings by bomber-gunman Anders Breivik, Norway. Of the 77
deaths, 69 were at an island youth camp, with 33 out of 55 teenagers killed
under the age of 18. July 22, 2011.

LOAD-DATE: December 16, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTNS


                  Copyright 2014 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              21 of 143 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                     December 16, 2014 Tuesday 12:24 PM GMT

Does Sydney siege indicate increasing threat to Britain of 'lone wolf' terror
attacks?;
Big Question: There is an increased risk of lone wolf terror attacks in Britain,
but are we likely to see a copycat of the Sydney siege?

BYLINE: By Thomas Colley, King's College London

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 610 words


'Lone wolf' terror attacks, perpetrated by individuals not directly affiliated
with terrorist organisations, are now considered by many analysts the major
terror threat facing the West. In the wake of the Sydney siege, the Prime
Minister has reiterated the threat to Britain posed by islamist-inspired
attacks. Britain has not experienced such an attack since the murder of Lee
Rigby in May 2013. However, events in Sydney, along with recent attacks in New
York, Belgium and Canada, suggest a growing threat to Britain too.

But what does the Sydney siege say about the nature of the 'lone wolf' terror
threat to Britain, and what can be done about it?

As with any terrorist tactic, the effectiveness of 'lone wolf' attacks should
arguably be measured not in casualties inflicted but their capacity to spread
terror in civilian populations. Statistically, 'lone wolf' attacks cause fewer
casualties than other terrorist attacks, yet they may generate more fear through
unpredictability.

Lone wolves are harder to prevent

It is unpredictability that makes 'lone wolf' attacks so hard to prevent.
Potential perpetrators are hard to profile, and lack the social, operational and
financial networks with which groups of terrorists can be caught. Large scale
terrorist attacks such as 7/7, Mumbai (2008) or Westgate (2013) require
extensive planning, intelligence gathering and financing, increasing the chance
of being discovered. An internet connection and a knife may be all that is
needed for an individual.

Lone wolves benefit terrorist groups

For these reasons, inciting 'lone wolf' terrorism is an ideal tactic for a group
such as ISIL. Contrary to many views in the West, ISIL propaganda is not an
unstoppable force. A tiny fraction of Muslims have answered ISIL's call to rise
up and attack their Western neighbours. However, its propaganda can covertly
radicalise a small number of susceptible individuals who may then decide to act.
Those individuals may be poorly trained or even acting spontaneously, but most
importantly they can sow fear in civilian populations at minimal cost.

Sydney siege repeat less likely in Britain

While the Sydney siege reflects an increased threat of ISIL-inspired lone wolf
terrorism, a copycat hostage-taking is somewhat less likely in Britain. Firearms
are harder to acquire in Britain, and attacks using more easily obtainable and
cheaper weapons such as knives are considered more likely. However, Sydney does
demonstrate that 'lone wolf' attacks may diversify over time. This makes the
task of predicting the nature of an attack even harder.

Cause for optimism, need for vigilance

While the threat of lone wolf terror attacks in Britain is increasing, there is
at least one cause for cautious optimism: the increase is partly a product of
the repeated successes of security services in preventing larger terrorist
attacks. In recent weeks, British security forces have thwarted an alleged plot
to kill a civilian on Remembrance Day and a further plot to kill a member of the
West Midlands police, to name but two successes.

Our security services have achieved much in preventing large-scale terrorist
attacks. Even so, with hundreds of returnees from Syria, any successful lone
wolf attack sets another example that another jihadist may seek to imitate.
Vigilance by all is now needed to mitigate the threat of the lone wolves.

Thomas Colley is a doctoral researcher in the Department of War Studies at
King's College London.

LOAD-DATE: December 16, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTNS


                  Copyright 2014 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              22 of 143 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring South Asia - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                          December 17, 2014 Wednesday

Pakistan Army chief says school attack shows terrorists "enemies of humanity"

LENGTH: 175 words


Text of report by official news agency Associated Press of Pakistan (APP)

Rawalpindi, 16 December: Chief of the Army Staff (COAS) Gen Raheel Sharif
Tuesday [16 December] said the terrorist attack on innocent students in Peshawar
showed that the terrorists were not only enemies of Pakistan but enemies of the
humanity also.

"This ghastly act of cowardice of killing innocents clearly indicates they are
not only enemies of Pakistan but enemies of humanity," he said according to ISPR
[Inter-Services Public Relations].

"We are extremely saddened, but our resolve has taken new height," he said and
added, "We will continue to go after the inhuman beasts, their facilitators till
their final elimination."

Gen Raheel said they (terrorists) had hit at the heart of the great nation, but
they could not in any way diminish its will.

He said that based on actionable intelligence, several options had been put into
action, including 10 air strikes in Khyber Agency today.

Source: Associated Press of Pakistan news agency, Islamabad, in English 1513gmt
16 Dec 14

LOAD-DATE: December 17, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2014 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              23 of 143 DOCUMENTS


                    BBC Monitoring Asia Pacific - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                          December 17, 2014 Wednesday

China strongly condemns terror attack on Pakistan school

LENGTH: 179 words


Text of report in English by official Chinese news agency Xinhua (New China News
Agency)

Beijing, 16 December: China on Tuesday [16 December] strongly condemned the
terrorist attack on a school in Pakistan.

"We are deeply shocked and grieved by the attack and condemn in the strongest
terms the terrorists," Foreign Ministry spokesman Qin Gang said in a statement
issued on Tuesday night.

Qin's comments came hours after Taleban militants attacked an army-run public
school in Pakistan's northwest city of Peshawar on Tuesday afternoon.

Local media in Pakistan quoted hospital sources and unidentified security
sources as saying that 137 people were killed and 245 others injured.

China extends heartfelt condolences to the victims and expresses deep sympathy
to the wounded and the families of the victims, Qin said.

Stressing China opposes terrorism in any form, Qin said China will continue to
firmly support the unremitting Pakistani efforts to fight terrorism, safeguard
national stability and save people's lives.

Source: Xinhua news agency, Beijing, in English 1542gmt 16 Dec 14

LOAD-DATE: December 17, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2014 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              24 of 143 DOCUMENTS


                    BBC Monitoring Asia Pacific - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                          December 17, 2014 Wednesday

Japan says terrorist attack on Pakistan school "unforgivable" - Kyodo

LENGTH: 157 words


Text of report in English by Japan's largest news agency Kyodo

Tokyo, 17 Dec: Japan condemned on Wednesday the Taliban terrorist attack on a
school in Pakistan the previous day, describing it as "unforgivable" and
pledging full support for the Pakistani government's fight against terrorism.

"Our country strongly condemns any form of terrorism, and this one is especially
unforgivable as it targeted pupils who hold the future in their hands," top
government spokesman Yoshihide Suga said at a daily press briefing.

The attack by Taliban gunmen left 141 people dead, mostly children, at a
military-run school in Peshawar on Tuesday.

"We are in deep shock and sorrow," the chief Cabinet secretary said, offering
condolences to the victims and their families. "Japan will cooperate with the
international community and fully support the Pakistani government, which is
fighting terrorism."

Source: Kyodo News Service, Tokyo, in English 0338gmt 17 Dec 14

LOAD-DATE: December 17, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2014 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              25 of 143 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring South Asia - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                          December 17, 2014 Wednesday

Afghan paper slams human rights bodies' indifference to terrorist attacks

LENGTH: 384 words


Excerpt from report by Nuri Herawi headlined: "Why is right of human life in
Afghanistan not supported?" state-owned Afghan newspaper Anis on 14 December

The 19 Qaws [10 December] was the international Human Rights Day which is marked
in different countries of the world every year.

[Passage omitted: on the role of international human rights organization in
defending rights of the people around the world]

If we study the past 35 years history of Afghanistan, we will find out that
rights of majority of the Afghan people have been violated by different means.
The continuing years of conflict in Afghanistan have inflicted serious types of
harm on the oppressed Afghan people. The people have suffered death, injuries,
loss, destruction and hunger. Power conflicts inflicted heavy casualties on
Afghanistan, but no human rights activist or organization heard the voice the
Afghan people in the past.

After the fall of the Taleban regime in Afghanistan, people received information
about human rights organizations and international conventions on human rights
through media outlets. Following that, the Human Rights Day has been honoured in
our country every year.

This year, the Human Rights Day was marked at a time when suicide attacks and
explosions killed a large number of innocent civilians in different parts of the
country. The recent attacks have brought many Afghan families to deep mourning.
However, no-one heard the voice of Afghan civilians and no-one tried to seek an
approach to solve the problem.

Why no-one defends the right of living of the Afghan people? Why the human
rights activists fail to condemn these acts and lash out at supporters of the
government's armed oppositions? This is a question that human rights activists
and United Nations have failed to answer until now. What is the difference
between the Afghan civilians and other people of the world who live in peace?

People of Afghanistan expect the United Nations and human rights activists to
help the national unity government and prevent the occurrence of suicide attacks
and explosions in the country. The people expect these organizations to raise
voice against terrorists' supporting networks. The human rights activists have
to defend the right of living of the Afghan people.

Source: Anis, Kabul, in Dari 14 Dec 14 p 2

LOAD-DATE: December 17, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2014 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              26 of 143 DOCUMENTS


                       BBC Monitoring Europe - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                          December 17, 2014 Wednesday

Romanian Foreign Ministry firmly condemns terrorist attack on school in Pakistan

LENGTH: 210 words


Text of report in English by Romanian government news agency Agerpres

[Unattributed report: "MAE Firmly Condemns Attack on School in Pakistan"]

Bucharest, Dec 16 (Agerpres) - The Ministry of Foreign Affairs (MAE) firmly
condemned the attack committed on Tuesday [16 December] on a school in Peshawar,
the main town in northwestern Pakistan, that has left, until now, at least 130
dead, mostly children.

"Nothing can justify this terrorist act of extreme violence and unimaginable
brutality. The entire international community must condemn such barbaric acts,
such savage attacks in which children fall as innocent victims. Those
responsible for the tragedy in Peshawar must be held accountable immediately',
said Minister of Foreign Affairs Bogdan Aurescu, according to a MAE release.

The Ministry of Foreign Affairs addresses condolences to the families of those
murdered and expresses its solidarity with the Pakistani people in these moments
of hardship.

At least 130 persons, mostly school students, were killed in the attack
committed by Taleban militants on a school for children of servicemen in
Peshawar, the main town in northwestern Pakistan, according to local
authorities, AFP reports.

Source: Agerpres news agency, Bucharest, in English 1315 gmt 16 Dec 14

LOAD-DATE: December 17, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2014 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              27 of 143 DOCUMENTS


                        BBC Monitoring Central Asia Unit
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                          December 17, 2014 Wednesday

Kazakhstan condemns Pakistani school terror attack

LENGTH: 209 words


Text of report by privately-owned Interfax-Kazakhstan news agency

Astana, 17 December: Kazakhstan firmly condemns the act of terrorism carried out
in Pakistan's Peshawar city on 16 December, which has claimed over 140 civilian
lives, the Kazakh Foreign Ministry's statement said today.

"We express our deep condolences to the Pakistani government, families and close
ones of the deceased. We wish a speedy recovery to all of the injured in the
attack," the statement said.

"The killing of innocent children and teachers has caused feelings of strong
indignation and revulsion. It shows extreme cruelty of those terrorists," the
ministry said.

The statement added that Kazakhstan condemned terrorism in all of its forms and
expressions, and called on the international community to take collective
measures in a decisive fight against this phenomenon. It also called for
adoption of a universal convention on combating international terrorism as soon
as possible.

According to the latest information, 141 people were killed by Pakistani Taleban
during attack on a school in northern Pakistan's Peshawar city. The victims of
the attack included 132 children and nine school employees.

Source: Interfax-Kazakhstan news agency, Almaty, in Russian 0623 gmt 17 Dec 14

LOAD-DATE: December 17, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2014 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              28 of 143 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring Middle East - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                          December 17, 2014 Wednesday

Twin terror attack kill 26 civilians in Yemen's Bayda region

LENGTH: 240 words


Text of report in English by state-run Yemeni news agency Saba website

Sana'a, 16 December - The High Security Committee (HSC) issued on Tuesday [16
December] a statement on the two terror attacks which killed 16 girl students
and 10 civilians in Rada city in Al-Baidha.

The statement, Saba received a copy of, said that the two al-Qaeda attacks on
Tuesday in Rada city targeted a girl students bus while passing through in the
public street in the city, and the other targeted a group of civilians in the
middle of the city.

The attacks claimed the lives of 16 girl students and 10 civilians, in addition
to a number of injured people, according to the statement.

The HSC expressed, in the statement, its strong condemnation for these terror
and criminal incidents which go against the Islamic values and the culture of
the Yemeni people, confirming that it will give due care for the injured and
families of the killed.

It also affirmed that the military and security institutions will spare no
efforts to track the terror elements to bring them to justice in order to
receive their deterrent punishment.

The statement urged all citizens to cooperate with the military and security
apparatuses to inform about any information that may help in hunting down the
perpetrators, as well as any other information about any elements dangering
security of the country and people.

Source: Yemen News Agency Saba website, Sanaa, in English 2225 gmt 16 Dec 14

LOAD-DATE: December 17, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2014 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              29 of 143 DOCUMENTS


                       BBC Monitoring Europe - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                          December 17, 2014 Wednesday

Cyprus strongly condemns "terrorist attack" on Pakistani school

LENGTH: 110 words


Text of report in English by Greek Cypriot news agency CNA

The Ministry of Foreign Affairs has strongly condemned the terrorist attack
which took place at a school in Peshawar, Pakistan.

"We are shocked at the heinous terrorist attack on a public school in Peshawar
of Pakistan that resulted in the deaths of dozens of innocent children", an
official press release says.

It is further added that "we strongly condemn inhumane attacks on innocent
students and educators and we express our deep condolences to the families of
the victims and our support for the people and the Government of Pakistan".

Source: Cyprus News Agency, Nicosia, in English 1808 gmt 16 Dec 14

LOAD-DATE: December 17, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2014 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              30 of 143 DOCUMENTS


                    BBC Monitoring Asia Pacific - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                          December 17, 2014 Wednesday

Chinese president sends condolences Pakistani counterpart over terror attack

LENGTH: 181 words


Text of report by official Chinese news agency Xinhua (New China News Agency)

Beijing, 17 Dec: Chinese President Xi Jinping Wednesday [16 December] sent a
message to Pakistani President Mamnoon Hussain, expressing condolences to the
victims of Tuesday's [15 December] terror attack in Pakistan.

Xi said in the message that he was shocked after learning of the grave terror
attack in Peshawar, Pakistan.

In his own name and on behalf of the Chinese government and people, Xi expressed
deep condolences to the victims as well as sympathy and solicitude to those
injured and family members of victims.

He stressed that China opposes any form of terrorism and strongly condemns this
inhuman terror attack, noting China firmly supports the Pakistani government's
efforts to fight terrorism.

The Pakistani army said late Tuesday that an army-run public school in
Pakistan's northwest city of Peshawar was attacked by militants on Tuesday, and
a total of 141 people, including 132 students, were killed and 133 others
injured so far.

Source: Xinhua news agency, Beijing, in English 1137gmt 17 Dec 14

LOAD-DATE: December 17, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2014 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              31 of 143 DOCUMENTS


                 BBC Monitoring Former Soviet Union - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                          December 17, 2014 Wednesday

Russia: Suspected mastermind of 2002 terrorist attack detained, another at large

LENGTH: 356 words


The Moscow City Court has confirmed media reports about the arrest of a man
suspected of organizing the October 2002 terrorist attack at a Moscow theatre,
known as the Nord-Ost hostage crisis, Russian state-owned TASS news agency
(formerly ITAR-TASS) reported on 17 December.

The suspect, Khasan Zakayev, was detained in August 2014, but information about
his arrest was only confirmed on 17 December.

Criminal proceedings on the Nord-Ost case, which were suspended in 2007, were
resumed following Zakayev's arrest, a report by privately-owned news agency
Interfax said later on the same day.

"The Russian Investigations Committee main directorate in Moscow has restarted
the investigation on the criminal case on the capture of the theatre centre on
Dubrovka [street] on 23 October 2002," Interfax quoted Investigations Committee
spokesman Vladimir Markin as saying.

Zakayev stands accused of terrorism and other crimes, Markin said. "In 2002 he
organized the transportation into Moscow of the weapons and home-made explosive
devices that the terrorists used. He is accused of taking part in a criminal
group, preparing a terrorist attack, being an accomplice in hostage taking,
attempted murder of two or more persons, illegal storage of weapons and
deliberate destruction of property," Markin was quoted as saying.

Zakayev was apprehended while trying to enter Crimea from Ukraine with
counterfeit documents, the Interfax report quoted Markin as saying.

A second suspect in the case, Gerikhan Dudayev, has been arrested in absentia
and put on the international wanted list, the TASS report said quoting Igor
Trunov, the lawyer representing the relatives of the Nord-Ost attack's victims.

"I would like to remind you that six of the participants in the terrorist attack
have been sentenced to long terms of imprisonment, 40 terrorists were destroyed
during the special operation and only one participant remains on the
international wanted list, Gerikhan Dudayev," - Markin was quoted as saying in
the Interfax report.

Source: TASS news agency, Moscow, in Russian 0838 gmt 17 Dec 14; Interfax news
agency, Moscow, in Russian 0915 gmt 17 Dec 14

LOAD-DATE: December 17, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2014 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              32 of 143 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring Middle East - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                          December 17, 2014 Wednesday

Saudi grand mufti condemns terrorist attack on Pakistani school

LENGTH: 170 words


Text of report in English by Saudi state-owned official news agency SPA website

[Unattributed report: "Kingdom's Grand Mufti: Attacking on School in Pakistan is
Crime, Injustice and Aggression"]

Riyadh, Safar 25, 1436, Dec 17, 2014, SPA - Shaykh Abd-al-Aziz bin Abdallah Al
Al-Sheikh, Kingdom's Grand Mufti and President of the Council of Senior Ulema
and the Department of Religious Research and Ifta, expressed his condemnation of
the bloody attack targeted yesterday a school in Peshawar, northwest Pakistan,
which resulted in killing more than 120 people, describing the attack as a
corruption, injustice and aggression.

In a press statement, Shaykh Abd-al-Aziz stressed the sanctity of blood and
money of Muslims, confirming that all religions prohibit murder unjustly and
prevent it.

The Kingdom's Grand Mufti stressed that what happened in Pakistan is a painful
accident, which killed more than 120 people, including students and male and
female teachers.

Source: SPA news agency website, Riyadh, in English 17 Dec 14

LOAD-DATE: December 17, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2014 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              33 of 143 DOCUMENTS


                        BBC Monitoring Central Asia Unit
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                          December 17, 2014 Wednesday

Tajik president condemns Pakistan school terror attack

LENGTH: 177 words


Text of report by Tajik president's website on 17 December

Tajik President Emomali Rahmon has sent a telegram of condolences to Pakistani
Prime Minister Nawaz Sharif, which specifically says:

"Your Excellency,

"It is with horror and anger, and pain and grief that I heard the report about
the attack by a Taleban armed group on a school in the city of Peshawar, which
left over hundred kids and teachers dead and dozens of Pakistani citizens
injured.

"I am completely confident that this horrible incident, which has once again
showed the evil face of international terrorism to the world community, will
make stronger our will to continue merciless collective fight against this
disgraceful phenomenon of the century and will spur the world community to step
up cooperation in preventing violence and extremism.

"Please accept condolences and sympathies of the people and government of
Tajikistan and extend our warm friendly feelings to kith and kin of those
innocently killed and the injured."

Source: Tajik president's website, Dushanbe, in Tajik 0400 gmt 17 Dec 14

LOAD-DATE: December 17, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2014 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              34 of 143 DOCUMENTS



                                  Bristol Post

                          December 17, 2014 Wednesday

Sex attack terror Woman locked in flat and assaulted

BYLINE: Geoff Bennett; Crown court reporter; geoff.bennett@b-nm.co.uk

SECTION: COURT:OTHER; Pg. 18-19

LENGTH: 386  words


A MAN with learning disabilities locked a woman in his flat, stripped naked and
subjected her to a terrifying sexually assault, a court heard.

Michael Perks was found unfit to plead after carrying out the assault when he
was living at Maples Community Care in Staple Hill.

Bristol Crown Court heard that, after being arrested, he was transferred from
HMP Bristol to St Andrews psychiatric hospital in Northampton due to his
deteriorating mental health. Perks, 52, was charged with false imprisonment and
sexual assault on June 30.

In his absence, and without the prosecution's evidence being contested, a jury
of eight men and four women unanimously found that he did the acts alleged.

The court heard that, in 2011, he  barricaded a woman in a room in the deluded
belief he was going to have an intimate relationship with her. No charges were
brought at the time.

Judge Julian Lambert told the jury: "It worries me what happened to this woman
was predictable."

He imposed a restricted hospital order under Section 37 of the Mental Health
Act, 1983.

Nicholas Fridd, prosecuting, said Perks locked the woman in his flat to stop her
getting out. Mr Fridd said: "Almost immediately he took  his clothes off. He
told her he wanted to have sex with her and he put his hands all over her. She
said he behaved like a wild animal. He pulled her breasts out of her bra.

"She was  utterly terrified. She was screaming. Still he didn't let her out. He
told her she wouldn't be going out."

Eventually Perks let the woman go, the court heard, and police were called.

The woman told police: "All of a sudden he completely ripped his clothes off in
no time."

It was then that Perks pushed her back on his settee and sexually assaulted her.

She told police: "He kept saying he wanted to have sex with me."

The woman said at one stage Perks tried to gag her to stop her screaming, and
told her she was going to stay with him that night and the next day. She said
eventually her  assailant got off  her and she managed to leave the flat.

The court heard Perks was born with a  learning disability, which was diagnosed
when he was aged around seven or eight.

Dr Ian Harwood, a consultant psychiatrist, said Perks' parents were offered
special schooling for him but they didn't accept help and managed him at their
home until he was 37, when they died.

LOAD-DATE: December 20, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                           Copyright 2014 Localworld
                              All Rights Reserved

                              35 of 143 DOCUMENTS



                          China Daily European Edition

                          December 17, 2014 Wednesday

China strongly condemns terrorist attack on Pakistan school

SECTION: ASIA PACIFIC

LENGTH: 150 words


BEIJING - China on Tuesday strongly condemned the terrorist attack on a school
in Pakistan.

"We are deeply shocked and grieved by the attack and condemn in the strongest
terms the terrorists," Foreign Ministry spokesman Qin Gang said in a statement
issued on Tuesday night.

Qin's comments came hours after Taliban militants attacked an army-run public
school in Pakistan's northwest city of Peshawar on Tuesday afternoon.

Local media in Pakistan quoted hospital sources and unidentified security
sources as saying that 137 people were killed and 245 others injured.

China extends heartfelt condolences to the victims and expresses deep sympathy
to the wounded and the families of the victims, Qin said.

Stressing China opposes terrorism in any form, Qin said China will continue to
firmly support the unremitting Pakistani efforts to fight terrorism, safeguard
national stability and save people's lives.

LOAD-DATE: December 16, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2014 China Daily Information Co
                              All Rights Reserved

                              36 of 143 DOCUMENTS



                          The Daily Telegraph (London)

                          December 17, 2014 Wednesday
                                   Edition 2;
                                National Edition

HOW DO WE KEEP THE EXTREMISTS AT BAY?;
Two very different terror attacks show how crucial it is that Britain monitors
known jihadists at home and abroad, says Con Coughlin

BYLINE: Con Coughlin

SECTION: FEATURES; Pg. 21

LENGTH: 1401 words


There is a world of difference between yesterday's well-organised and barbaric
attack on a military school in north-west Pakistan and the Sydney café siege
carried out this week by a lone Islamist fanatic. So far as the latter is
concerned, the early indications are that the self-styled "sheikh", Man Haron
Monis, was acting on his own initiative when he began the hostage drama at the
Lindt café in Sydney's financial district.

But as is so often the case with lone acts of Islamist-inspired terrorism, Monis
was well known to the Australian authorities, having acquired a degree of local
notoriety for his television appearances, during which espoused his anti-Western
views. His behaviour even extended to writing hate mail to the families of
Australian service personnel killed in Afghanistan.

More recently, he had been accused of complicity in his wife's murder, as well
as 40 accounts of sexual assault and indecency. Despite the severity of the
charges, Monis was on bail because Australian officials had concluded that he
was a harmless crank who did not pose a serious danger to anyone.

Nor, given his past conduct, is it hard to understand why they reached this
conclusion. Having arrived as a refugee from Iran in 1996, the fact that Monis
came from a Shia Muslim background would have ruled him out from any association
with extremist Sunni Muslim groups, such as Islamic State (Isil). Even though
Monis later converted to the Sunni tradition, it is unlikely the hardliners
running groups such as Isil would have taken him seriously - and they might even
have been tempted to subject him to their own extreme punitive measures.

In all likelihood, Isil will have been just as surprised as the Australians that
Monis demanded an Islamic State flag to display in the coffee shop before he
died in a hail of bullet fire as the police initiated their hostage rescue
operation.

British security officials, who face their own challenges trying to prevent
"lone wolf" attacks, will have sympathy with the Australian authorities' failure
to identify Monis as a threat, and deal with him accordingly. Only last year it
emerged that the killers of Fusilier Lee Rigby, who was virtually decapitated
during a frenzied attack outside Woolwich barracks in south London, were known
to MI5. It was even alleged later that Security Service officers had sought to
recruit one of the killers, Michael Adebolajo, before he carried out the murder.

But preventing lone wolf attacks such as those in Sydney and Woolwich is an
entirely different proposition to dealing with the far greater threat posed by
well-established terror organisations, such as Isil and the Taliban.

There will always be a limit to how much carnage can be inflicted by a lone
terrorist, even if their actions will cause great distress to those who witness
them or are directly affected. Terror networks, on the other hand, not only have
the ability to carry out acts of mass murder, such as yesterday's horrific
attack on a military school in Pakistan's tribal areas. They also have the power
to challenge the authority of established governments, hoping that they can
replace them with Islamist states run on the basis of hard-line Sharia law.

The emergence of Isil in northern Syria and Iraq has been at the expense of the
traditional centres of government in Damascus and Baghdad respectively.

Boko Haram, the Islamist sect in northern Nigeria responsible for the recent
wave of terrorist bombings, has sought to exploit the inability of the
authorities in Abuja to provide effective government throughout the country. The
Pakistani Taliban, which subscribes to the same uncompromising tradition in
Sunni Islam, harbours similar ambitions in Pakistan where, not so long ago, the
movement was threatening to overrun the country's capital, Islamabad, and even
to seize control of Pakistan's nuclear weapons arsenal.

That threat has now receded, not least because of the effectiveness of the
Pakistani military's recent offensive to destroy the Taliban's terrorist
infrastructure, which has resulted in the deaths of several leading commanders.

Yesterday's attack on the military school in the frontier town of Peshawar was
no doubt organised in retaliation for that offensive, and as a warning to the
government of Nawaz Sharif, the prime minister, to end his campaign against the
Taliban.

For many people in Britain, the temptation will be to regard yesterday's
atrocity in Peshawar as purely a problem that the Pakistani authorities need to
deal with, rather than an event that is likely to have any direct bearing on
their own security.

It is unlikely that Britain and its allies will be directly involved in the
operation to track down those responsible for yesterday's massacre. But
ministers would do well to remember that those responsible will have been
inspired by the same fanatical Islamist ideology that has motivated lone wolf
terrorists to undertake acts of violence. Their methods might be different, but
what binds these disparate groups and individuals together is their unbending
commitment to radical Islam.

The challenge facing our intelligence and security services, which have the
unenviable task of tackling both forms of Islamist threat, is trying to
establish which poses the greater danger and in implementing the appropriate
measures to ensure their plots do not come to fruition.

So far as organised terror groups are concerned, Isil has replaced al-Qaeda as
the movement that is deemed to pose the most potent threat to British interests,
not least because of the large numbers of British jihadists - now estimated in
the thousands - who have travelled to Syria to join their ranks.

It is to prevent Isil achieving its goal of creating an independent state, or
Caliphate, which would inevitably become a safe haven for Islamist terrorists,
that Michael Fallon, the Defence Secretary, has announced that Britain will be
sending hundreds of troops to help train Iraqi and Kurdish forces to defeat
Isil.

But while the Government is gradually putting together a strategy for dealing
with Isil, its attempts to curb the threat posed by potential lone wolf
terrorists on the streets of Britain is proving more problematic.

David Cameron has warned recently that he believes that, because of the large
number of Britons travelling to and from Isil strongholds in Syria, it is only a
matter of time before Britain suffers another such attack.

Commenting shortly after the Sydney café siege, he said: "It demonstrates the
challenge we face of Islamist extremist violence all over the world. This is...
the sort of thing that could just as well happen here in the UK or Europe."

To prevent such attacks, MPs will spend the early part of 2015 focusing on the
Government's Counter-Terrorism and Security Bill, which sets out measures for
dealing with Islamist suspects, in the hope of passing it before next May's
general election. But their efforts will be in vain so long as the authorities
fail to keep a proper grip on suspected jihadists known to be operating within
Britain's borders.

A classic example of the difficulties the security forces face in monitoring
potential jihadists emerged when Tom Whitehead, The Daily Telegraph's security
editor, reported last week that several suspects - including an associate of the
hate preacher Anjem Choudary - tried to pose as illegal immigrants to leave the
UK undetected and head for Syria. Choudary, who has been associated with a
number of Muslim organisations that have subsequently been proscribed, is one of
Britain's most highprofile Islamic campaigners, one whose activities the
security services might be expected to monitor closely.

Under the proposed new measures contained in the counter-terrorism Bill, the
Government will be given increased powers to limit the ability of hate preachers
such as Choudary to appeal to impressionable, vulnerable or even mentally ill
young Muslims.

The legislation will also bolster the Government's armoury to disrupt those
planning to travel abroad to fight, while reducing the risks they pose if and
when they return.

But none of these measures will count for much in protecting the British public
from attack if the police and security services cannot get the basics right, and
undertake proper scrutiny of known jihadists, at home and abroad.

'There will always be a limit to how much carnage can be inflicted by a lone
terrorist'

LOAD-DATE: December 17, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DTL


                  Copyright 2014 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              37 of 143 DOCUMENTS



                                 Express Online

                    December 17, 2014 Wednesday 2:36 PM GMT

London was just 'days' away from Sydney-style terror attack, reveals Met Police
chief

BYLINE: Levi Winchester

LENGTH: 525 words


LONDON was just "days" away from a terror attack similar to the recent siege in
a Sydney cafe, the Metropolitan Police Commissioner has revealed today.

AP/PA

Sir Bernard Hogan-Howe said a group of men had been 'very close' to hurting or
killing someone

Sir Bernard Hogan-Howe said a group of people had been "very close" to "hurting
someone badly or killing them" before their plot was foiled.

During an interview with LBC Radio, the Scotland Yard chief disclosed that five
terror plots in London had been thwarted over the last four months alone.

When asked if these "dangerous" people were weeks away from carrying out an
attack, he responded: "You could argue much closer. I'm acknowledging days.
Very, very close."

Sir Bernard had been questioned on how to police against an event such as the
horrific siege which saw 17 people held hostage, of which two were killed, in
Sydney, Australia, this week.

He was then asked if there are people in Britain as dangerous as Man Haron
Monis, the gunman behind the attack, to which he replied: "Without a doubt...
look at [murdered soldier] Lee Rigby.

GETTY

David Cameron warned Britain could be hit 'at any moment' by a random attack

"There are people out there who are dangerous and that's why we keep arresting
them because we need to stop them hurting people.

"It's clear [that in Sydney] you've got a radicalised individual who had a
weapon and took many people hostage.

"That is a terrifying prospect and very difficult to guard against. The best
defence we all have is good intelligence."

He then urged members of the public to step forward if they suspect someone may
be radicalised, adding that even criminals should come to the police if they are
concerned.

"Members of the public tell us when they're worried, criminals tell us," he
said.

"We get some of our best intelligence from criminals. Sometimes they don't like
them, sometimes they're frightened of them."

Last night, David Cameron warned Britain could be hit "at any moment" by a
random attack from a "self-starter" terrorist.

The Prime Minister told a committee of senior MPs that an outrage along the
lines of the siege in Sydney was "definitely" a possibility because of the
difficulties of rooting out "lone wolf" fanatics.

Mr Cameron spoke out about the magnitude of the terrorist threat facing the UK
during a hearing of the Commons Liasion Committee of senior MPs at Westminster.

"Over the last few months there have been a series of plots that have been
defeated that could have seen a police officer or other authority figure
murdered in cold blood," he said.

"It is thanks to the brilliance of the police and security services that these
have been prevented. We can't rely on them to prevent it every time.

"People who are self-radicalised, often on the internet and determined to do
appalling things, that is very difficult to prevent."

Related articles Urgent probe announced as Australian PM reveals Sydney
hostage-taker had GUN LICENCE Questions over why Sydney gunman with 'long and
chequered history' was not on watch list 'Willing to lay down their lives'
Australia mourns 'hero' hostages killed in cafe siege
brightcove.createExperiences;

LOAD-DATE: December 17, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDE


              Copyright 2014 Northern and Shell Media Publications
                              All Rights Reserved

                              38 of 143 DOCUMENTS



                                 Express Online

                    December 17, 2014 Wednesday 1:33 PM GMT

Attack from 'self-starter' terrorist could happen 'at any moment' in UK, warns
Cameron

BYLINE: Macer Hall

LENGTH: 511 words


A RANDOM attack by a "self-starter" terrorist could happen "at any moment" in
Britain, David Cameron warned tonight.

GETTY

David Cameron has revealed details about foiled plots to murder British police
officers

The Prime Minister told a committee of senior MPs that an outrage along the
lines of the siege in Sydney was "definitely" a possibility because of the
difficulties of rooting out "lone wolf" fanatics.

And he revealed that a string of jihadist plots to assassinate police officers
in Britain have been foiled over recent months.

Mr Cameron spoke out about the magnitude of the terrorist threat facing the UK
during a hearing of the Commons Liasion Committee of senior MPs at Westminster.

"Over the last few months there have been a series of plots that have been
defeated that could have seen a police officer or other authority figure
murdered in cold blood," he said.

"It is thanks to the brilliance of the police and security services that these
have been prevented.

"We can't rely on them to prevent it every time.

"People who are self-radicalised, often on the internet and determined to do
appalling things, that is very difficult to prevent."

A murderous attack by a lone terrorist "could happen at any moment", he told the
MPs.

He admitted that the Government needed to do more to wipe out the poisonous
ideology of the fanatics.

"If you are saying we are not doing enough to challenge this underlying
narrative, I agree with that," he said.

Government programmes were seeking to work with moderates to root out fanatics
in prisons, schools, universities and Mosques.

"We have got to drive them out of our communities," Mr Cameron said.

He admitted that extremists were "a minority of a minority of a minority" but he
needed more moderates with Muslim communities to "rise up" against the fanatical
few.

Mr Cameron insisted the Government was right to try to seek to ban people
suspected of fighting in Syria and Iraq from returning to the UK.

"I think it's important we are pretty robust on this one, it about keeping our
country safe."

brightcove.createExperiences; Related articles Terror plot to crash hijacked
planes into Heathrow was NOT foiled by 'brutal' CIA torture 'UK is last place
I'd want to live' Luton-based mother JAILED for terror posts rejects UK Three
people DEAD after police storm cafe ending 16-hour hostage terror Sydney siege
exposes real danger of 'small scale' attacks by lone fanatics warn experts

And he expressed frustration that some countries in the Middle East were still
resisting attempts to send foreign terror suspects back to be incarcerated in
their home nations.

"We often have a situation where our prisons are full of people I would happily
put on a plane tomorrow," he said.

He said that destroying the Islamic State group in Iraq and Syria was "a
priority" in the offensive against extremism.

Britain had launched the second largest number of bombing missions against Isis
after the US, and five times as many as the French.

The West could not tackle the "terrorist narrative" without defeating Isis, he
said.

LOAD-DATE: December 17, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDE


              Copyright 2014 Northern and Shell Media Publications
                              All Rights Reserved

                              39 of 143 DOCUMENTS



                                  The Guardian

                    December 17, 2014 Wednesday 5:50 PM GMT

Peshawar school massacre: what does the future hold for Pakistan?;
Pakistani Taliban killed 141 people, including 132 children, in the deadliest
attack in Pakistan's history. Share your thoughts on your country's future·
Pakistan school massacre prompts prime minister to lift death penalty ban·
Pakistan school attack: political rivals agree anti-terrorism plan· Pakistan
responds to Peshawar school massacre with strikes on Taliban

BYLINE: Carmen Fishwick

SECTION: WORLD NEWS

LENGTH: 173 words


The Peshawar school massacre that left 132 children and nine staff dead on
Tuesday provoked horror and fierce international condemnation.

Leaders around the world, from Indian prime minister Narendra Modi to US
president Barack Obama, condemned the attack. Pakistani Nobel peace prize winner
Malala Yousafzai, who also survived a Taliban attack, said she was "heartbroken
by this senseless and cold-blooded act of terror".

Do you live in Pakistan? How do you feel about the situation in your country? We
want to hear from you.                     Share your thoughts anonymously by
filling in the form below

Tehrik-e-Taliban claimed responsibility for the attack, saying it was revenge
for a ferocious army offensive called Zarb-e-Azb in tribal areas that has left
an estimated 1,000 militants dead and tens of thousands displaced.

There is a very real danger of spiraling violence as the Pakistan military, with
its reputation for ruthlessness, seeks revenge for the dead children of military
personnel.

LOAD-DATE: December 17, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBGNS


  Copyright 2014 The Guardian, a division of Transcontinental Media Group Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              40 of 143 DOCUMENTS



                               Independent.co.uk

                    December 17, 2014 Wednesday 6:59 PM GMT

Sydney siege: Australian PM Tony Abbott orders review of café terror attack;
Hostage-taker Man Haron Monis was not on any security watch list despite being
well known to Australian authorities

BYLINE: Matt Siegel

SECTION: FRONTPAGE

LENGTH: 261 words


The Australian Prime Minister, Tony Abbott, has ordered an investigation into
Tuesday's siege in Sydney after tough new security laws and the courts failed to
stop a convicted felon from walking into a café with a concealed shotgun.

Three people were killed, including the hostage-taker Man Haron Monis, when
police stormed the café early on Tuesday morning to free terrified hostages held
at gunpoint for 16 hours. Police are investigating whether the two captives were
killed by Monis or died in crossfire.

Monis, a self-styled sheikh who received political asylum from Iran in 2001, was
well known to Australian authorities, having been charged as an accessory to
murder and with dozens of counts of sexual and indecent assault. He had been
freed on bail.

Australia passed sweeping security laws in October aimed at stopping people from
becoming radicalised and going to fight in conflicts such as those in Iraq and
Syria, where scores of Australians have joined militant groups, as well as
preventing attacks at home.

Terror in Sydney: how the siege unfolded

Despite the new powers, Mr Abbott said Monis was not on any security watch list
and managed to walk undetected into the Lindt Chocolate Café with a legally
obtained shotgun on a busy workday morning.

New South Wales state police later contradicted Mr Abbott's assertion, telling
Reuters in a statement there was no record of Monis having a gun licence.

Monis was convicted in 2012 of sending hate mail to the families of Australian
soldiers killed in Afghanistan.

Reuters

LOAD-DATE: December 17, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBI


           Copyright 2014 Independent Digital News and Media Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              41 of 143 DOCUMENTS



                               Independent.co.uk

                    December 17, 2014 Wednesday 8:15 AM GMT

Sydney cafe siege: Britain First blames Australia terror attack on 'mass
immigration' and fact Lindt isn't Halal-certified;
Multi-faith thinktank accuses right-wing group of 'pushing conspiracy theories'

BYLINE: Adam Withnall

SECTION: FRONTPAGE

LENGTH: 535 words


Britain First has been accused of using the Sydney café siege that involved the
death of two hostages to "push conspiracy theories" on its social media
channels.

The leader of the right-wing political movement has issued a video message to
its Facebook followers blaming the attack by lone gunman Man Haron Monis on
"mass immigration", while a series of posts attempted to link the incident to
"halal certification".

Paul Golding said that an attack on Australia was "an attack on Britain and the
British people", on the grounds that "it was Britain that actually built
Australia... the people living there have British ancestry and the Queen is
still the head of state".

He said he was issuing a "warning from a country that is already in deep danger
regarding Islamic extremism". "Every single Western country in the world is
facing the threat from jihad, from demographic decline and takeover due to mass
immigration," he said.

The attack on Monday marked the country's first terrorist attack on home soil
resulting in the loss of three lives, including that Monis. The hostages who
died were named as Katrina Dawson, a 38-year-old barrister and mother-of-two,
and 34-year-old Tori Johnson, the café's manager.

Warning: footage may be upsetting for some viewers

A large amount of seemingly unfounded social media speculation has suggested
that the Lindt Chocolate Café in Sydney was targeted because the Swiss company
is not Halal-certified. Its name features on a website listing such companies,
Australia's Sunshine Coast Daily reported, that has been part of a long-running
anti-Halal campaign in the country. Sydney siege: Australia mourns with sea of
flowers at site of Martin Place terror attack

One Australian woman, named Hailey Chamberlain, wrote on the official Facebook
page for the café: "Please keep Lindt chocolate free of being Halal-certified in
memory of your hero staff that lost their lives in this terrible tragedy."

In a Facebook post, Britain First urged its followers to "honour the memory" of
those killed by buying some chocolate "to show support for Lindt for refusing to
become halal certified".

It said: "Isn't it odd that one of the few companies that refuses to pay Halal
tax (Zakat) was chosen to be attacked in Sydney? The Australian Tea Party posted
a photo last month claiming that Lindt does not have Halal chocolate, which
conceivably could be a motive for targeting the Lindt café."

READ MORE'Lone wolf' attackers will always remain a security nightmareAustralia
has had its sense of invulnerability shattered

Steve Rose, from the inter-faith thinktank Faith Matters, said that Britain
First were seeking to capitalise on the terror attack to "create fresh
hysteria".

He told The Independent: "As many Australians try to make sense of this mindless
act of murder, Britain First feel it appropriate to push conspiracy theories
around halal certification and terrorism.

"Zakat is about charity and the idea that it's some sort of 'halal tax' is
laughable. Creating a fresh hysteria around halal products only serves to
further demonise Muslim communities at a time when some seek to damage community
cohesion."

READ MOREMuslims need much more than #IllRideWithYou's hollow symbolism

LOAD-DATE: December 17, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBI


           Copyright 2014 Independent Digital News and Media Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              42 of 143 DOCUMENTS



                              liverpoolecho.co.uk

                    December 17, 2014 Wednesday 10:29 PM GMT

Merseyside Pakistanis mourn after deadly school terrorist attack;
Book of condolences opened at centre on Mulgrave Street

BYLINE: By Christopher Brennan

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 339 words


Merseyside's Pakistani community is mourning the loss of at least 141 people,
mostly students, in a terrorist attack.

Taliban terrorists claimed responsibility for armed gunmen's attack on an
army-run high school in the western city of Peshawar, which reportedly killed
nine staff and 131 students, aged 10 to 20.

The Pakistan Liverpool Association has opened a book of condolence at its centre
on Mulgrave Street and said it was in "deep shock" after the killings.

Images from the school showed blood-stained carpets and bullet holes in walls at
the Army Public School and College where children had been shot.

General secretary Humayun Mirza said Pakistani families in Liverpool were likely
to know someone affected by the attack on the school, which drew pupils from a
wide area.

Association president Sarfraz Ali said there were 3,000 Pakistani families in
the Merseyside area, mostly from the country's eastern Punjab region, but said
that horror and shock at the attack affected all of Pakistan and the world.

He said the Taliban violence was "not a crime against Pakistan, it's a crime
against humanity" and invited everyone in Liverpool to sign the condolence book.

Mr Mirza said the Taliban had destabilised Pak-istan since coming to the country
and that "terrorism is happening every day."

Taliban terrorists said the attack was a response to a Pakistani government
campaign against extremists in the northwestern mountainous area of Waziristan,
next to Afghan-istan.

But Mr Mirza said: "I think [the Peshawar attack] has hit in a big way.This has
woken up the people of Pakistan."

The centre's executive board is in contact with the High Commission for Pakistan
in London and will hold a meeting tomorrow to discuss other events for the
grieving community, such as holding a vigil.

Mr Ali said the Pakistan Association would do all it can for the local
community, though he added: "What can you do be-sides pray?"

Prayer vigils were held in many cities throughout the world last night to
remember all those who were killed in the attack.

LOAD-DATE: December 17, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBLIV


                         Copyright 2014 Trinity Mirror
                              All Rights Reserved

                              43 of 143 DOCUMENTS



                                   MailOnline

                    December 17, 2014 Wednesday 10:52 PM GMT

Sony scraps cinema The Interview release after hackers threaten 9/11-style
terror attacks and big FIVE cinema chains pull Sony's The Interview after

BYLINE: DAVID MCCORMACK FOR MAILONLINE and ASSOCIATED PRESS REPORTER

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 1406 words



     ·    Cinema chains are pulling The Interview from their schedules after
          hackers threatened 9/11-like terror attacks on theaters showing the
          movie
     ·    Combined - Regal, AMC, Cinemark, Cineplex and Carmike - operate more
          than half of the country's cinemas
     ·    Regal said on Wednesday that it was delaying showings because of the
          'ambiguous nature of any real or perceived security threats'
     ·    Sony said on Tuesday that it understood if exhibitors pulled the film
          in light of the threats - which the FBI is currently investigating
     ·    Company still plans to make the film available to theaters on
          Christmas Day should they choose to exhibit it
     ·    The Interview stars Rogen and Franco as television journalists
          involved in a CIA plot to assassinate North Korean leader Kim Jong Un


The five largest theater chains in North America have announced that they are
pulling The Interview from their schedules after hackers threatened 9/11-like
terror attacks on cinemas showing the Sony Pictures film.

Combined - Regal, AMC, Cinemark, Cineplex and Carmike - operate more than half
of the country's 40,000 cinemas.

In a statement, Regal said it was delaying any showings of The Interview because
of 'the ambiguous nature of any real or perceived security threats.'

Scroll down for video

The statement from Regal's vice president of marketing and communications also
pointed the finger of blame at Sony and its 'wavering support' for the movie.

Sony did not immediately comment on the news on Wednesday. On Tuesday, the
studio told exhibitors that the company understood if they pulled the film in
light of the threats.

'Due to the wavering support of the film The Interview by Sony Pictures, as well
as the ambiguous nature of any real or perceived security threats, Regal
Entertainment Group has decided to delay the opening of the film in our
theaters,' said Regal's Russ Nunley.

Regal Entertainment is the country's largest operator with more than 7,000
cinemas.

Cineplex also has more than a 75 percent market share in Canada with 161
theaters with 1,639 screens.

'Cineplex takes seriously its commitment to the freedom of artistic expression,
but we want to reassure our guests and staff that their safety and security is
our No. 1 priority,' said a Cineplex spokesperson on Wednesday.

Carmike Cinemas, which operates 247 theaters across the country, was the first
to cancel its planned showings of the film on Tuesday.

The fallout from the Sony Pictures Entertainment hack that began four weeks ago
exploded on Tuesday after the shadowy group calling themselves Guardians of
Peace escalated their attack beyond corporate espionage and threatened
moviegoers with violence reminiscent of the terrorist attacks of September 11,
2001.

The Department of Homeland Security has said there was 'no credible intelligence
to indicate an active plot against movie theaters,' but noted it was still
analyzing messages from the group, dubbed GOP.

The theaters won't play the film until the conclusion of an FBI investigation
into the three-week-old cyberattack on Sony Pictures and subsequent terrorist
threats, reports The Wall Street Journal.

The warning did prompt law enforcement in New York and Los Angeles to address
measures to ramp up security and Thursday's New York premiere at the Landmark
Sunshine was canceled as a result.

Sony still plans to make the film available to theaters on Christmas Day should
they choose to exhibit it, although the company is now understood to be
considering releasing the film on premium video-on-demand instead, reports
Variety.

The move would allow the studio to recoup some of the film's $42 million budget
and maximize the promotional exposure the film has received due to the threats.
It would also enable the studio to experiment with the potential of VOD.

In The Interview, Rogen and Franco star as television journalists involved in a
CIA plot to assassinate North Korean leader Kim Jong Un.

Speculation about a North Korean link to the Sony hacking has centered on that
country's angry denunciation of the film.

Over the summer, North Korea warned that the film's release would be an 'act of
war that we will never tolerate.' It said the U.S. will face 'merciless'
retaliation.

The film was slated to hit theaters nationwide on Christmas Day. It premiered in
Los Angeles last week.

But on Tuesday, Rogen and Franco pulled out of all media appearances, canceling
a Buzzfeed Q&A and Rogen's planned guest spot Thursday on Late Night With Seth
Meyers.

The FBI said it is aware of the GOP's threats and 'continues to work
collaboratively with our partners to investigate this matter.' FBI director
James Comey last week said that investigators are still trying to determine who
is responsible for the hack.

Los Angeles Police Chief Charlie Beck said his department takes the hackers'
threats 'very seriously' and will be taking extra precautions during the
holidays at theaters.

Hollywood studio Sony Pictures said on Tuesday that it was not pulling the film,
but is leaving it to theater chains to decide whether to show the movie, which
depicts a fictional plot to assassinate North Korean dictator Kim Jong-Un.

'We plan to release the film,' said a source at Sony, which is dealing with
fallout from an enormous cyber-attack last month.

The source added that a decision whether to show the film 'is with theater
owners, partners whom we support.'

GOP also released a trove of data files including 32,000 emails to and from Sony
Entertainment CEO Michael Lynton in what it called the beginning of a 'Christmas
gift.'

And two former Sony film production workers filed lawsuits alleging the Culver
City, California company waited too long to notify nearly 50,000 employees that
data such as Social Security numbers, salaries and medical records had been
stolen.

The filing follows another lawsuit this week from two other former Sony
employees accusing the studio of being negligent by not bolstering its defenses
against hackers before the attack.

HACKERS' CHILLING WARNING THREATENS CINEMA ATTACKS

The Guardians of Peace threat released on Tuesday reads:

Warning

We will clearly show it to you at the very time and places The Interview be
shown, including the premiere, how bitter fate those who seek fun in terror
should be doomed to.

Soon all the world will see what an awful movie Sony Pictures Entertainment has
made.

The world will be full of fear. Remember the 11th of September 2001.

We recommend you to keep yourself distant from the places at that time. (If your
house is nearby, you'd better leave.)

Whatever comes in the coming days is called by the greed of Sony Pictures
Entertainment.

All the world will denounce the SONY.

It claims emails and other leaked information show that Sony's
information-technology department and its top lawyer believed its security
system was vulnerable to attack, but that company did not act on those warnings.



Sony potentially faces tens of millions of dollars in damages from a
class-action lawsuit, said Jonathan Handel, an entertainment law professor at
the University of Southern California Gould School of Law.

Since the hack surfaced late last month, everything from financial figures to
salacious emails between top Sony executives has been dumped online.

The nearly 32,000 emails to and from Sony Pictures Entertainment CEO Lynton
leaked on Tuesday include information about casting decisions and total costs
for upcoming films, release schedules for Sony films through 2018 and corporate
financial records, such as royalties from iTunes, Spotify and Pandora music
services.

They include information about new electronics devices such as DVD players and
cellphones. They also include budget figures for the Motion Picture Association
of America, of which Sony is a member, and at least one email about a senior
Sony executive who left the company.

The emails also include banal messages about public appearances, tennis matches,
home repairs, dinner invitations and business introductions.

On Monday, Sony Pictures boss Michael Lynton sought to reassure employees that
the studio would not be destroyed by the leaks.

'This will not take us down,' Lynton told employees, adding: 'You should not be
worried about the future of this studio.'

North Korea has denied involvement in the brazen November 24 cyber-attack, which
some expert said could possibly have been carried out by disgruntled workers or
by supporters of North Korea furious over the movie.

LOAD-DATE: December 17, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDM


                   Copyright 2014 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              44 of 143 DOCUMENTS



                                   MailOnline

                    December 17, 2014 Wednesday 3:16 PM GMT

Britain was just 'days' from a terror attack - with FIVE plots foiled since the
summer, Met police chief reveals

BYLINE: MATT CHORLEY, POLITICAL EDITOR FOR MAILONLINE

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 1735 words



     ·    Sir Bernard Hogan-Howe reveals scale of terror threat faced by Britain
     ·    In last four months, five plots have been thwarted and 35 people
          arrested
     ·    T here is 'no doubt' UK extremists are as dangerous as Sydney gunman
     ·    Demanded an extra £50million to fund counter-terror operations
     ·    C hildren aged 15, including growing numbers of girls, travelling to
          Syria


Britain has been just days from a major terror attack, with five plots foiled in
the last four months, Met Police chief Sir Bernard Hogan-Howe revealed today.

Terrorists have been 'very close to hurting somebody badly, or killing them'
since the summer and there is 'no doubt' that there are extremists in the UK as
dangerous as the gunman behind the Sydney café siege, the Commissioner warned.

And he claimed officers are struggling to cope with the mountain of digital
files seized in police raids, with recent cases seeing terror suspects hours
from being released before crucial evidence was found for them to be charged.

Scroll down for video

David Cameron last night warned Britain could be hit 'at any moment' by a
Sydney-style terror attack.

Two hostages died and Islamic extremist Man Haron Monis was killed after a
16-hour siege in the busy financial district of the Australian capital.

The Prime Minister said it was only through the efforts of the security services
that plots to murder UK police officers 'in cold blood' had been foiled in
recent months.

But Sir Bernard insisted that the police need extra resources to deal with the
growing terror threat in Britain. In a wide-ranging interview, the country's
most senior police chief:


     ·    Revealed five plots have been thwarted in the past four months,
          including some which were just days away from killing and maiming on
          the streets of Britain
     ·    Demanded an extra £50million to fund counter-terror operations,
          including tracking suspects and analysing digital evidence
     ·    Warned that children as young as 15, including growing numbers of
          girls, are travelling to fight in Syria, using Spain as a stop-off to
          Turkey to avoid detection
     ·    Appealed to members of the public, and even other criminals, to report
          any unusual behaviour which could be linked to terrorism


Sir Bernard told LBC Radio: 'In terms of plots over these last four months
really it's probably five. We have arrested 35 people.'

The dramatic warning comes amid growing fears of a so-called lone wolf attack in
the UK.

In Sydney, the Iranian asylum seeker Monis struck terror into the heart of the
city after taking 17 staff and customers hostages inside the Lindt cafe in
Martin Place.

The 50-year-old gunman is believed to have fired the first shots, which sparked
teams of heavily armed police to swoop on the café at 2am on Tuesday.

Asked if there were people in Britain as dangerous as Monis, Sir Bernard told
LBC radio: 'There will be, there's no doubt. You look at what happened to Lee
Rigby.

'There are people out there who are dangerous, and that's why we keep arresting
them because we need to stop them hurting people.

'And the operations we have talked about earlier, they have been very close to
hurting somebody badly, or killing them. So they are a threat. Very, very
close.'

Pressed on how close the plots had been to being carried out before being
intercepted by police, he replied: 'I'm acknowledging days.'

CHILDREN AS YOUNG AS 15 ARE TRAVELLING TO FIGHT IN SYRIA

Children as young as 15 are travelling to fight in Syria with ISIS extremists
before trying to return to Britain, Sir Bernard Hogan Howe warned.

The Metropolitan Police Commissioner said that a 'handful' of people leave the
UK every week intent on joining the conflict.

Sir Bernard said: 'There has been a rise in the number of young people over this
past 12 months.

'People have been travelling who are 16 or 18. We even had 15-year-olds, and
it's changed because we have seen more young girls or women going out...15 it
was a girl.

'Some have been intercepted so have been turned back from Turkey, these are the
ones we know about.

'You could go to Spain and then go to Turkey and then Syria. It's not hard. The
numbers are significant, and of course there are still people coming back.'

He said that of 550 who have travelled to Syria, around half have returned
already.

There are fears that fighters who have been radicalised in Syria will carry out
terror attacks in the UK.

Terror suspects can be held for up to 14 days before they must be charged or
released.

Sir Bernard revealed: 'The last couple of case we have got right to the wire, to
13 days, I fact 13 and a half days, another one 12 days, and then we've found
the thing we needed to prove the charge.

'Had we not got that we'd have had to release on bail. So for those reasons we
need some help.'

The government last month announced that an extra £130million would be made
available over the next two years for the security services to 'monitor and
disrupt those self-starting terrorists'.

But Sir Bernard said Scotland Yard needed more money to cope with the rising
threat level and the increasingly complex use of technology by criminals and
terrorists.

Police and security officials have previously warned it is 'almost inevitable'
that Britain will be hit by an attack by fanatics who have been 'militarised' by
Islamic State.

Sir Bernard warned that have a 'radicalised individual' with weapon taking many
people hostage is 'a terrifying prospect' which is 'very difficult to guard
against'.

He stressed that the best defence that the police has is good intelligence.

'It means members of the public tell us when they are worried about someone.
Other criminals tell us when they are worried about people.

'We get some of our best information from criminals, for various motives,
frankly sometimes financial, but sometimes they don't like them, sometimes
they're frightened of them.

'We get the best information from people in that area.'

Last night the Prime Minister warned it was much harder for the authorities to
prevent attacks by fanatics who are 'self-radicalised on the internet' than to
tackle known extremists who had travelled to the Middle East.

Mr Cameron, appearing before senior MPs at the Commons Liaison Committee, said:
'The threat we face definitely includes those sort of self-starting, sometimes
quite random attacks that could happen at any moment in Britain.

'We've seen over the last few months there have been a series of plots that have
been detected and prevented that would have seen police officers or other
authorities murdered in cold blood.

'It's thanks to the brilliance of our security services that these things have
been prevented.'

But he added: 'We can't count on them to prevent it every time because it is one
thing understanding the terror networks coming out of Pakistan or Afghanistan or
Iraq and Syria, trying to monitor what they're doing, who's going and who's
returning. That's one thing.

'But people who are self-radicalised on the internet, who then suddenly do
appalling things, that is much more difficult to prevent.'

'We need an extra £50million to find needles in digital haystack'

Scotland Yard has requested an extra £50million to track and prosecute terror
suspects.

Sir Bernard Hogan-Howe revealed he has asked the government for 'more help',
including staff to trawl millions of digital files seized in counter-terror
raids.

He likened trying to find conclusive evidence of extremism to looking for a
needle in a haystack, adding: 'The last job we had 10 haystacks and weren't sure
which one the needle was in.'

Sir Bernard said: 'Have we got enough resources? Well we have asked the
government for more help.

'We are losing money, but in this area we have got to invest so we have asked
for around £50milion for across the country. We are waiting for an answer on
that. We need it.'

He said counter-terror operations 'use lots of people' and cost a lot of
money.They are resource intensive when trying to track suspects around the
clock.

But once someone has been arrested, officers facing a daunting task in analysing
their computer files for evidence.

Sir Bernard added: 'When we arrest them what we have found is we are seizing
huge amounts of digital evidence, computers, laptops, all the things we all
have.

'One of the operations, the last one I think, one person had about 19 devices.
Now you think that's ridiculous. But you think how many devices you have at
home.

The last job we had 10 haystacks and weren't sure which one the needle was in.
It's really hard

'We get all that, then we've got to download it, and then having downloaded it
we have got to find the stuff.

'Sometimes you are looking for a needle in a haystack. The last job we had 10
haystacks and weren't sure which one the needle was in. It's really hard. So we
are getting backlogs in the digital retrieval.'

The government insists that it does not break down the counter-terrorism budget
into individual lump sums it is only ever published as a single total figure.

Officials also refused to discuss the details of funding requests made by
'operational partners'.

Mr Cameron last month announced that an extra £130million would be made
available over the next two years for the security services to 'monitor and
disrupt those self-starting terrorists'.

The PM's official spokesman said: 'We have already protected funding for counter
terrorism policing due to the ongoing threat posed to the UK by terrorism and
more recently the Prime Minister announced an additional £130million to
strengthen counter-terrorism capabilities.

'This will include new funding to enhance our ability to monitor and disrupt
terrorists and some of this funding will go to counter-terrorism policing.'

A Home Office spokesman added: 'Public protection is the first responsibility of
any government and we are committed to ensuring the police and other agencies
have the resources they need to respond to changing threats.

'While all public services must constrain their spending, we have protected
funding for counter terrorism policing due to the ongoing threat posed to the UK
by terrorism.

'The Prime Minister has also announced an additional £130million which will be
made available over the next two years to strengthen counter-terrorism
capabilities. This will include new funding to enhance our ability to monitor
and disrupt terrorists and additional resources for programmes to prevent
radicalisation.'

LOAD-DATE: December 17, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDM


                   Copyright 2014 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              45 of 143 DOCUMENTS



                                   MailOnline

                    December 17, 2014 Wednesday 12:20 PM GMT

Britain was just 'days' from a terror attack - with FIVE plots foiled since the
summer, Met police chief reveals

BYLINE: MATT CHORLEY, POLITICAL EDITOR FOR MAILONLINE

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 1472 words



     ·    Sir Bernard Hogan-Howe reveals scale of terror threat faced by Britain
     ·    In last four months, five plots have been thwarted and 35 people
          arrested
     ·    T here is 'no doubt' UK extremists are as dangerous as Sydney gunman
     ·    Demanded an extra £50million to fund counter-terror operations
     ·    C hildren aged 15, including growing numbers of girls, travelling to
          Syria


Britain has been just days from a major terror attack, with five plots foiled in
the last four months, Met Police chief Sir Bernard Hogan-Howe revealed today.

Terrorists have been 'very close to hurting somebody badly, or killing them'
since the summer and there is 'no doubt' that there are extremists in the UK as
dangerous as the gunman behind the Sydney café siege, the Commissioner warned.

And he claimed officers are struggling to cope with the mountain of digital
files seized in police raids, with recent cases seeing terror suspects hours
from being released before crucial evidence was found for them to be charged.

Scroll down for video

David Cameron last night warned Britain could be hit 'at any moment' by a
Sydney-style terror attack.

Two hostages died and Islamic extremist Man Haron Monis was killed after a
16-hour siege in the busy financial district of the Australian capital.

The Prime Minister said it was only through the efforts of the security services
that plots to murder UK police officers 'in cold blood' had been foiled in
recent months.

But Sir Bernard insisted that the police need extra resources to deal with the
growing terror threat in Britain. In a wide-ranging interview, the country's
most senior police chief:


     ·    Revealed five plots have been thwarted in the past four months,
          including some which were just days away from killing and maiming on
          the streets of Britain
     ·    Demanded an extra £50million to fund counter-terror operations,
          including tracking suspects and analysing digital evidence
     ·    Warned that children as young as 15, including growing numbers of
          girls, are travelling to fight in Syria, using Spain as a stop-off to
          Turkey to avoid detection
     ·    Appealed to members of the public, and even other criminals, to report
          any unusual behaviour which could be linked to terrorism


Sir Bernard told LBC Radio: 'In terms of plots over these last four months
really it's probably five. We have arrested 35 people.'

The dramatic warning comes amid growing fears of a so-called lone wolf attack in
the UK.

In Sydney, the Iranian asylum seeker Monis struck terror into the heart of the
city after taking 17 staff and customers hostages inside the Lindt cafe in
Martin Place.

The 50-year-old gunman is believed to have fired the first shots, which sparked
teams of heavily armed police to swoop on the café at 2am on Tuesday.

Asked if there were people in Britain as dangerous as Monis, Sir Bernard told
LBC radio: 'There will be, there's no doubt. You look at what happened to Lee
Rigby.

'There are people out there who are dangerous, and that's why we keep arresting
them because we need to stop them hurting people.

'And the operations we have talked about earlier, they have been very close to
hurting somebody badly, or killing them. So they are a threat. Very, very
close.'

Pressed on how close the plots had been to being carried out before being
intercepted by police, he replied: 'I'm acknowledging days.'

CHILDREN AS YOUNG AS 15 ARE TRAVELLING TO FIGHT IN SYRIA

Children as young as 15 are travelling to fight in Syria with ISIS extremists
before trying to return to Britain, Sir Bernard Hogan Howe warned.

The Metropolitan Police Commissioner said that a 'handful' of people leave the
UK every week intent on joining the conflict.

Sir Bernard said: 'There has been a rise in the number of young people over this
past 12 months.

'People have been travelling who are 16 or 18. We even had 15-year-olds, and
it's changed because we have seen more young girls or women going out...15 it
was a girl.

'Some have been intercepted so have been turned back from Turkey, these are the
ones we know about.

'You could go to Spain and then go to Turkey and then Syria. It's not hard. The
numbers are significant, and of course there are still people coming back.'

He said that of 550 who have travelled to Syria, around half have returned
already.

There are fears that fighters who have been radicalised in Syria will carry out
terror attacks in the UK.

Terror suspects can be held for up to 14 days before they must be charged or
released.

Sir Bernard revealed: 'The last couple of case we have got right to the wire, to
13 days, I fact 13 and a half days, another one 12 days, and then we've found
the thing we needed to prove the charge.

'Had we not got that we'd have had to release on bail. So for those reasons we
need some help.'

The government last month announced that an extra £130million would be made
available over the next two years for the security services to 'monitor and
disrupt those self-starting terrorists'.

But Sir Bernard said Scotland Yard needed more money to cope with the rising
threat level and the increasingly complex use of technology by criminals and
terrorists.

Police and security officials have previously warned it is 'almost inevitable'
that Britain will be hit by an attack by fanatics who have been 'militarised' by
Islamic State.

Sir Bernard warned that have a 'radicalised individual' with weapon taking many
people hostage is 'a terrifying prospect' which is 'very difficult to guard
against'.

He stressed that the best defence that the police has is good intelligence.

'It means members of the public tell us when they are worried about someone.
Other criminals tell us when they are worried about people.

'We get some of our best information from criminals, for various motives,
frankly sometimes financial, but sometimes they don't like them, sometimes
they're frightened of them.

'We get the best information from people in that area.'

Last night the Prime Minister warned it was much harder for the authorities to
prevent attacks by fanatics who are 'self-radicalised on the internet' than to
tackle known extremists who had travelled to the Middle East.

Mr Cameron, appearing before senior MPs at the Commons Liaison Committee, said:
'The threat we face definitely includes those sort of self-starting, sometimes
quite random attacks that could happen at any moment in Britain.

'We've seen over the last few months there have been a series of plots that have
been detected and prevented that would have seen police officers or other
authorities murdered in cold blood.

'It's thanks to the brilliance of our security services that these things have
been prevented.'

But he added: 'We can't count on them to prevent it every time because it is one
thing understanding the terror networks coming out of Pakistan or Afghanistan or
Iraq and Syria, trying to monitor what they're doing, who's going and who's
returning. That's one thing.

'But people who are self-radicalised on the internet, who then suddenly do
appalling things, that is much more difficult to prevent.'

'We need an extra £50million to find needles in digital haystack'

Scotland Yard has requested an extra £50million to track and prosecute terror
suspects.

Sir Bernard Hogan-Howe revealed he has asked the government for 'more help',
including staff to trawl millions of digital files seized in counter-terror
raids.

He likened trying to find conclusive evidence of extremism to looking for a
needle in a haystack, adding: 'The last job we had 10 haystacks and weren't sure
which one the needle was in.'

Sir Bernard said: 'Have we got enough resources? Well we have asked the
government for more help.

'We are losing money, but in this area we have got to invest so we have asked
for around £50milion for across the country. We are waiting for an answer on
that. We need it.'

He said counter-terror operations 'use lots of people' and cost a lot of
money.Ther are resource intensive when trying to track suspects around the
clock.

The last job we had 10 haystacks and weren't sure which one the needle was in.
It's really hard

But once someone has been arrested, officers facing a daunting task in analysing
their computer files for evidence.

Sir Bernard added: 'When we arrest them what we have found is we are seizing
huge amounts of digital evidence, computers, laptops, all the things we all
have.

'One of the operations, the last one I think, one person had about 19 devices.
Now you think that's ridiculous. But you think how many devices you have at
home.

'We get all that, then we've got to download it, and then having downloaded it
we have got to find the stuff.

'Sometimes you are looking for a needle in a haystack. The last job we had 10
haystacks and weren't sure which one the needle was in. It's really hard. So we
are getting backlogs in the digital retrieval.'

LOAD-DATE: December 17, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDM


                   Copyright 2014 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              46 of 143 DOCUMENTS



                                   MailOnline

                    December 17, 2014 Wednesday 1:32 AM GMT

Delhi schools on high alert after Peshawar terror attack

BYLINE: MAIL TODAY BUREAU

SECTION: INDIANEWS

LENGTH: 216 words


In the wake of the terror attack on a school in Peshawar, the Delhi Police have
sounded an alert to keep watch on schools in the Capital.

The Delhi Police have sent a message to all 160 police stations in the city to
keep a check on schools falling in their jurisdiction, to deal with any possible
terror attack.

"Earlier, the Special Cell had also sent an alert about a possible terror attack
on schools and colleges," a senior police official said.

"All beat officials have been asked to visit the schools and colleges falling in
their jurisdiction. The officials have been asked to keep in touch with the
school and college authorities to ensure the security of students," he added.

Over 5,000 government and private schools are being run in the Capital.

"A PCR van will keep patrolling near every school and college. All the police
stations have been informed to keep ready a quick reaction team and quick
response vehicles to tackle any unprecedented happening," said the officer.

Meanwhile, the Delhi Police also conducted separate mock drills at India Habitat
Centre, the Kalkaji Temple, a Metro station and a market area among other
places.

The Capital is already on high alert after intelligence warnings of a possible
terror strike ahead of US President Barack Obama's visit in January 2015.

LOAD-DATE: December 17, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDM


                   Copyright 2014 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              47 of 143 DOCUMENTS



                                  mirror.co.uk

                    December 17, 2014 Wednesday 4:31 PM GMT

Pakistan school attack: Warning as terrorists 'threaten to put magnetic bombs
under school buses';
Following the shocking Taliban massacre in which 132 students were murdered the
authorities have put all educational institutions in the country on high alert

BYLINE: By Sam Rkaina

SECTION: NEWS,WORLD NEWS

LENGTH: 559 words


Children are at risk of being blown up by magnetic bombs attached to school
buses by terrorists, Pakistan police have warned.

Following the shocking Taliban massacre in which 132 students were murdered the
authorities have put all educational institutions in the country on high alert.

And in the capital Islamabad police have reissued a letter calling on schools to
increase security and to check underneath buses and other vehicles. The advice
also says metal detectors need to be used and school gates should remain closed.

It comes as the Taliban issued a chilling warning that it will carry out more
atrocities, boasting: "This was just a trailer".

Inside the school where 132 students and nine staff members were killed by
Taliban gunmen

Education executive district officer Qazi Zahoorul Haq said a meeting with the
heads of all educational institutions would be held with reports produced on
security arrangements at Rawalpindi schools , according to the Express Tribune.

"We cannot afford another tragedy," he told the newspaper.

President of the private schools association in Rawalpindi, Ibrar Ahmad, said
that the district government had put out warnings a couple of years ago, with
barricades and CCTV cameras placed at a number of schools.

"The steps proved to be temporary as cameras and barricades were removed soon
after," he told the newspaper.

Pressure is being heaped on the government to do more to tackle the insurgency
following the brutal killings yesterday.

People across the country lit candles and staged vigils as parents bade final
farewells to their children during mass funerals in and around Peshawar, the
volatile city on the edge of Pakistan's lawless tribal belt where the targeted
school was located.

Grief mixed with anger as people looked to the authorities - long accused of not
being tough enough on extremists - to stem spiralling violence in a nation which
has become a safe haven for al Qaeda-linked groups.

At a vigil in the capital Islamabad, Fatimah Khan, 38, said she was devastated
by the atrocity.

"I don't have words for my pain and anger," she said. "They slaughtered those
children like animals."

Sixteen-year-old Naba Mehdi, who attends the Army School in the nearby garrison
city of Rawalpindi, had a message of defiance for the Taliban.

"We're not scared of you," she said. "We will still study and fight for our
freedom. This is our war."

When asked what the government should do, her mother interrupted: "Hang them.
Hang them all without mercy."

In apparent response to public opinion after what may have been the deadliest
militant attack in Pakistani history, Prime Minister Nawaz Sharif announced he
had lifted a moratorium on the death penalty.

Pakistanis may be used to almost daily attacks on security forces but an
outright assault on children stunned the country, prompting commentators to call
for a tough military response.

In all, 148 people were killed in the attack on the military-run Army Public
School, according to the army.

The school's sprawling grounds were all but deserted today, with a few snipers
manning the roofs of its pink brick-and-stone buildings.

Army vehicles and soldiers wearing face masks and carrying rifles were deployed
by the entrance.Video shows wounded schoolchildren being treated in a Pakistani
hospital:

Wounded schoolchildren treated in Pakistan hospital after Taliban attack

LOAD-DATE: December 17, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDMI


                      Copyright 2014 Trinity Mirror, Plc.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              48 of 143 DOCUMENTS


                                 Scottish Star

                          December 17, 2014 Wednesday
                                   Edition 1;
                                    Scotland

Cam's terror attack fears

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 209 words


BRITAIN faces the threat of a Sydneystyle "lone wolf" attack at any moment,
according to PM David Cameron.

He issued the warning after Islamic preacher Man Haron Monis took 17 people
hostage at the Lindt café in Sydney on Monday.

He was killed and two hostages died when police stormed the building 16 hours
later.

They were named yesterday as barrister Katrina Dawson, 38, a mum-of-three, who
died from a heart attack after shielding a pregnant pal from gunfire, and café
boss Tori Johnson, 34, who was shot dead trying to away from him.

Katrina Dawson's father, Sandy, was captain of the Royal & Ancient Golf Club of
St Andrews for the 12 months to September this year.

Mr Cameron told MPs at a meeting of the Commons Liaison Committee yesterday:
"The threat we face definitely includes those sort of selfstarting, sometimes
quite random attacks."

"People who are self-radicalised on the internet who then suddenly do appalling
things, that is much more difficult to prevent."

Earlier it was revealed that Monis' wife admitted she was a "terrorist" in a
video posted on YouTube four years before his gun rampage.

Amirah Droudis, 35, said she was "happy" about 9/11 and the 2002 Bali terror
attacks as "acts of God". She also expressed her joy at the Holocaust.

LOAD-DATE: December 17, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: SHOCK: In SydneyGUN NUT: Monis

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DSTscot


                       Copyright 2014 Express Newspapers
                              All Rights Reserved

                              49 of 143 DOCUMENTS



                                 standard.co.uk

                    December 17, 2014 Wednesday 1:27 PM GMT

London student who had throat cutting video on his phone guilty of plotting
terror attacks

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 521 words


A London university student faces prison after being convicted at the Old Bailey
today of plotting terrorist attacks in Syria during his studies.

David Souaan, 20, was arrested at Heathrow on his way to Syria with an iphone
video of a throat-cutting murder.

The jury was told the video is "so graphic and so shocking" it cannot be played
in open court.

It showed a young man on his knees with his head held back having his throat
cut, the court heard.

The victim is then thrust down into the mud and his last breaths can be heard on
the video.

Souaan, 20, a global politics and international relations student at Birkbeck
College, was found guilty of preparing for acts of terrorism in Syria.

He will be sentenced later by Judge Peter Rook QC.

Souaan went to Syria at least twice in December 2009 and December 2010 according
to stamps in his passport but he admits to making many other visits.

In January this year he sent a WhatsApp message to friend saying "Hello from
Syria" with an image of him sitting on part of a destroyed building.

He had been known at university as "a nice, quiet, softly-spoken young man and a
devout Muslim." He lived at the college hall of residence in Malet Street near
the British Museum.

But on his return to London this year, ostensibly to resume his studies, it was
clear that the last visit to Syria in January had changed him radically.

College security guard Simeon Olarewaju said that between March and May this
year Souaan "became harder and more serious when anyone mentioned girls or
alcohol and called others 'kaffur' meaning infidel."

The student also spoke of radical Islam and showed friend photos of him in
combat gear and with a gun with next to other armed men.

When he was arrested at Heathrow in May he was about to board a flight to Serbia
with the plan to travel undetected to Turkey and then cross the border into
Syria.

During the trial prosecutor Sarah Whitehouse QC said analysis of his iphone  and
laptop found "a mass of material showing he had extremist sympathies, he had
been fighting in Syria and was intending to return."

This is said to include video clips, photographs, documents and skype and text
messages.

Mrs Whitehouse said that it cannot be proved that Souaan was present when the
throat-cutting video was made and it could have been downloaded but, she added,
"that's the kind of images being carried on this young man's iphone."

Souaan was also found to have a video with a man, possibly himself, talking of
"the flag of tawheed in London," the court heard.

Mrs Whitehouse QC told the jury: "This is a reference to the fervent wish of
Muslim extremists to see the black flag of the Islam flying one day over Downing
Street."

Souaan's mother is a Christian from Serbia and his father is a Syrian Muslim but
he and his brother Adam chose to follow their father's religion, the court
heard.

He arrived in the UK in September 2012 on a visitor's visa but this was extended
into a three-year student visa in October 2013.

He told the jury he was never involved in terrorism in Syria, the pictures of
him with guns was him merely showing off and he had a Christian former
girlfriend.

LOAD-DATE: December 17, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBES


                    Copyright 2014 Evening Standard Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              50 of 143 DOCUMENTS



                                 standard.co.uk

                    December 17, 2014 Wednesday 8:35 AM GMT

The Interview premiere cancelled in wake of '9/11-style' terror attack threat

BYLINE: Robin de Peyer

SECTION: HOME

LENGTH: 380 words


Film bosses have cancelled the premiere of comedy The Interview after threats of
a "9/11-style" terror attack.

A threat claiming to be from the group responsible for the hacking of Sony's
computer system warned those who attend the film would suffer a "bitter fate".

The New York theatre which was supposed to host the premiere of the film - a
comedy about the assassination of North Korean President Kim Jong-Un starring
James Franco and Seth Rogen - confirmed the event had been cancelled.

Police in New York and LA, as well as the FBI, are investigating the threat,
which read: "We will clearly show it to you at the very time and places The
Interview be shown, including the premiere, how bitter fate those who seek fun
in terror should be doomed to.

"Soon all the world will see what an awful movie Sony Pictures Entertainment has
made.

"The world will be full of fear. Remember the 11th of September 2001."

It added: "We recommend you to keep yourself distant from the places at that
time. (If your house is nearby, you'd better leave.)"

Related links

Sony did not immediately comment on the threat or the premiere's cancellation,
despite Landmark theatre confirming Thursday's eventwas cancelled.

The US Department of Homeland Security said: "At this time there is no credible
intelligence to indicate an active plot against movie theaters within the United
States."

The threat comes after the North Korean government has denounced the film as
"undisguised sponsoring of terrorism, as well as an act of war" in a letter to
U.N. Secretary-General Ban Ki-moon.

US security agencies are investigating a hacking group that carried out the
cyber attack in November which saw damning internal emails published online.

Marc Maiffret, chief technology officer of cybersecurity firm BeyondTrust, said
he believed it was the first time a film screening had been pulled in the wake
of a high-profile cyber attack.

Sony is already reeling from the disclosures in documents released by the
hackers, which have publicly exposed internal discussions important to the
company's future.

The film features James Franco and Seth Rogen playing television journalists
embroiled in a CIA plot to assassinate Kim Jong-Un.

The pair are reported to have cancelled public appearances in the wake of the
terror threat.

LOAD-DATE: December 17, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBES


                    Copyright 2014 Evening Standard Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              51 of 143 DOCUMENTS



                               The Sun (England)

                          December 17, 2014 Wednesday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

THIS IS JUST THE TRAILER;
SCHOOL HORHOR 132 CHILDREN KILLED IN TERROR ATTACK 60 slaughtered by suicide
bomber Teacher is burnt alive in classroom Vile Taliban brag of worse to come..

BYLINE: NICK PISA

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 2,3

LENGTH: 754 words


THE VICTIMS

THE VICTIMS THE Taliban terror group behind the Pakistan school massacre
yesterday warned worse is to come - adding: "This was just the trailer."

Tehrik-i-Taliban made the threat in a statement accepting responsibility for the
atrocity, which saw at least 132 children and nine school staff murdered by bomb
and bullet. Between six and ten attackers stormed the Army-run school in
Peshawar, hurling grenades and indiscriminately shooting children with machine
guns as they fled screaming.

One suicide bomber blew himself up in a class of 60 youngsters - while other
pupils were forced to watch as a woman teacher was burned alive. Most of the
children were aged between ten and 18 but one victim was just two.

More than 100 were injured and it was feared the toll will rise.

All the attackers were reported dead after police and soldiers besieged the
school for six hours.

Survivors told how the terrorists got into the school through an adjoining
graveyard. Pupils at an end-of-term party were among the first to die.

Lab assistant Mudassar Abbas said: "I saw six or seven people walking class to
class and opening fire."

A pupil named Amir said: "I was sitting in an exam when the gunmen burst in
shooting. They killed a two-year-old who happened to be there."

Other survivors hid behind their desks as the gunman, wearing military uniforms,
sprayed classrooms and corridors with bullets. Some victims were beaten, then
shot.

Witnesses spoke of seeing decapitated bodies. One source said: "They burnt a
teacher in front of the students in a classroom.

"They literally set the teacher on fire with gasoline and made the kids watch."
The teacher is said to have been the wife of a soldier.

At least 1,500 students and teachers were in the school when the attack began.
Irfan Shah said he heard machine gun fire as he sat in class but his teacher
told him it was a drill and not to worry.

He added: "It was very intense firing. Then the sound came closer.

"Then we heard cries. One of our friends opened the window of the class. He
started weeping as there were several school fellows lying on the ground
outside."

The boy said two of his friends had been shot in front of him.

Irfan and his classmates fled to the school's back gate.

He said: "I felt bullets passing by my head twice. It was terrible."

Some pupils survived by pretending to be dead.

One survivor said: "We saw the bodies of our friends lying in the corridors.
They were bleeding. Some were shot three, four times."

The wounded and dying were ferried to hospital in www.ambulances.TV footage
showed blood-covered victims receiving emergency treatment in crowded wards.
Outside frantic relatives waited for news.

Irshadah Bibi, 40, whose son was among the dead, cried: "Oh God, why did you
snatch away my son? What is the sin of my child and all these children?" Another
mum said: "I was called by the principal. He said there had been an attack and
come quickly to get my two children. Thankfully they are fine but there are
parents who don't know what's happened to their children."

Mohammad Khorasani of the Tehrik-i-Taliban, known as TTP, said the attack was a
reprisal for the government's campaign against Taliban strongholds in Pakistan.

He said: "Six of our Mujahideen, including three suicide bombers, took part in
this attack and with the grace of almighty they all executed the plan very
accurately.

"We selected the army's school because the government is targeting our families
and females. "We want them to feel the pain. Today was just the trailer."

Khorasani tried to justify the slaughter, saying the gunmen were ordered to
"kill only older children and release the younger ones."

Pakistan's PM Nawaz Sharif described the massacre as a "national tragedy." There
was global condemnation of the atrocity. President Obama said: "By targeting
students and teachers terrorists have once again shown their depravity."

Pakistani schoolgirl Malala Yousafzai, shot in the head by Taliban gunmen for
promoting female education, said the attack was "senseless and horrific."

Malala, 17, who lives in Britain after flying here in 2012 for treatment, said:
"Innocent children have no place in horror such as this."

David Cameron said: "It is a dark, dark day for humanity. There is not a belief
system in the world that can justify this appalling act."

Earlier Mr Cameron warned MPs a Sydney-style lone-wolf terror attack could
happen here "at any time."

On Monday an Islamic fanatic and three hostages died in a 16-hour cafe siege.

nick.pisa@thesun.co.uk

The Sun Says - Page Six

LOAD-DATE: December 17, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Cameron ... yesterdayPain ... boy receives treatment in Peshawar
hospital as kids look onAlert ... soldiers on guard near the site of attack in
Peshawar, leftSeeking sanctuary ... a security guard leads bewildered children
to safety

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: SUN


                    Copyright 2014 NEWS GROUP NEWSPAPERS LTD
                              All Rights Reserved

                              52 of 143 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                    December 17, 2014 Wednesday 8:38 PM GMT

Life in a Pakistani school - where 'stranger danger' can mean bombers and
gunmen;
The Telegraph's former correspondent in Pakistan tells how fear of a terror
attack on his children's school led him to emigrate to the US

BYLINE: By Massoud Ansari

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 423 words


My daughters were lucky enough to get admission to one of the best schools in
Islamabad. But as the War on Terror continued, there were a lot of suicide bomb
attacks around the city, and it turned into one of the most bunkered places in
the world after Baghdad.

The worst thing was our worries for our young children and their security. My
seven-year-old, Shahzeb, came back home one day and said the school had asked
them to do a drill on how they would conduct themselves if the school was
hijacked.

They showed the young pupils possible escape routes, and the various security
measures they have to take in that situation. It drained the blood out of my
veins as I tried to imagine a situation where my children could get into a
hijacking situation.

A few days later, Shahzeb came back and told us that they had to frisk the
school bags of every child in the morning because the school had received
reports that terrorists might sneak a bomb into a pupil's bag.

The school administration took all these reports seriously because the militants
considered that acquiring "western education" as un-Islamic.

Then, one morning when I went to drop my children to school, I was told by the
guard at the gate that the school was closed till further notice. I came back
and called the principal official to find out that they had received a call from
the ministry of interior saying that the school might be hijacked. "We'll reopen
once the necessary security steps have been taken," I was told.

The school finally opened after a week's time but my wife was too scared to send
the children there. She finally sent them back after other parents started doing
the same.

It was drama like this - almost every day - that terrified us both and made us
think of leaving. I have had the option of relocating to the US ever since I was
married, as my wife has a Green Card. However, whenever she had pitched the idea
of migrating to the US - I used to tell her "over my dead body"!

But in the end, I became so fed up that I was the one who ended up requesting my
wife to migrate. The school where my children used to go was never attacked but
it was too much of a living trauma every day.

Although I went through a tough time to settle down in the US, where I had to
start from scratch, at least I could see the children coming and going to and
from school safely.

I am still in awe and shock as I watch the pictures of young children killed in
the attack in Peshawar by these sons of darkness. I share the pain of all those
parents who lost their children.

LOAD-DATE: December 17, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTNS


                  Copyright 2014 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              53 of 143 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                    December 17, 2014 Wednesday 1:21 PM GMT

Inside the Pakistan school: harrowing images reveal full terror of Taliban
attack;
Upturned desks and torn exam papers all that is left behind of Taliban attack
that killed 148 people - the vast majority children - at army school in Peshawar
yesterday

BYLINE: By Andrew Marszal and AP

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 960 words


The full devastation of the Taliban attack in which 148 people - the vast
majority children - were massacred in a Pakistan school yesterday is laid bare
in images showing pools of blood and bullet-ridden walls.

Upturned desks and torn exam papers scattered across the floor give evidence of
the unexpected terror that struck 500 children and staff on Tuesday morning as
nine gun-wielding militants stormed the building.

The attack at the Army Public School and College in the city of Peshawar on
Tuesday was the deadliest slaughter of innocents in the country and horrified a
nation already weary of unending terrorist assaults.

Media, allowed inside the school today just one day after the attack, found
pieces of clothing and children's shoes scattered amid the broken window glass.

A pair of child's eyeglasses lay broken on the ground.

Prayer vigils were held across Pakistan today, and students in other schools
spoke of their shock at the brutal slayings.

The government declared a three-day mourning period, starting Wednesday. Some of
the critically wounded adults - members of the school staff - died overnight,
and authorities raised the overall death toll to 148. The number of students
killed remained at 132. Another 121 students and three staff members were
wounded in the assault.

Several funerals were also held overnight, but most of the victims were buried
Wednesday.

"They finished in minutes what I had lived my whole life for, my son," said
labourer Akhtar Hussain, tears streaming down his face as he buried his
14-year-old, Fahad. He said he had worked for years in Dubai to earn a
livelihood for his children.

"That innocent one is now gone in the grave, and I can't wait to join him, I
can't live anymore," he wailed, banging his fists against his head.

More details emerged of Tahira Kazi, the school's principal, who was reportedly
set on fire and burnt to death by the jihadists.

And Nawaz Sharif, Pakistan's prime minister, announced Pakistan would be
bringing back the death penalty for terrorists following the Taliban.

Meanwhile, the Pakistan Taliban released photographs purportedly showing the
group of militants who attacked the Peshawar school. They are pictured holding
an array of guns and other weapons.

All nine of the attackers were killed yesterday after army commandos fought a
daylong battle until the school was cleared.

The attack began when seven Taliban gunmen, explosives strapped to their bodies,
scaled a back wall using a ladder to get into the school on Tuesday morning.
Once inside, they made their way into the main auditorium where many students
had gathered for an event, military spokesman Maj. Gen. Asim Bajwa told
reporters during the tour Wednesday.

The militants then made their way to the hall's stage and started shooting at
random. As students tried to flee for the doors, they were shot and killed. The
military recovered about 100 bodies from the auditorium alone, Bajwa said.

"This is not a human act," he added. "This is a national tragedy."

The Taliban said the attack was revenge for a military offensive against their
safe havens in the northwest, along the border with Afghanistan, which began in
June. Analysts said the school siege showed that even diminished, the militant
group still could inflict horrific carnage.

The attack drew swift condemnation from around the world. President Barack Obama
said the "terrorists have once again showed their depravity."

Pakistan's teenage Nobel Peace laureate Malala Yousafzai - herself a survivor of
a Taliban shooting - said she was "heartbroken" by the bloodshed.

Even Taliban militants in neighbouring Afghanistan decried the killing spree,
calling it "un-Islamic."

Mr Sharif pledged to step up the campaign that - along with U.S. drone strikes -
has targeted the militants.

"We must not forget these scenes," Sharif said Wednesday at a top-level meeting
in Peshawar. "The way they left bullet holes in the bodies of innocent kids, the
way they tore apart their faces with bullets."

Mr Sharif said he spoke to Afghan President Ashraf Ghani late Tuesday to discuss
how both countries could do more to fight terrorism. The two agreed to launch
fresh operations on their respective sides of the border, he said, and pledged
to "clean this region from terrorism."

Pakistan has in the past has criticised Afghanistan for what it said was a
failure to take action against militants on their side of the border,
specifically faulting Kabul for allegedly not helping when Pakistan launched the
North Waziristan operation in June. Afghanistan has also repeatedly accused
Pakistan of harbouring militants in its tribal regions.

But Bajwa, the army spokesman, said that after the Peshawar massacre, Islamabad
is "hoping that there will be a strong action, a corresponding action from the
Afghanistan side, from across the border, in the coming days."

In neighbouring India, which has long accused Pakistan of supporting anti-India
guerrillas, schools on Wednesday observed two minutes of silence for the
Peshawar victims at the urging of Prime Minister Narendra Modi, who called the
attack "a senseless act of unspeakable brutality."

In an email on Wednesday, the Pakistani Taliban spokesman Mohammad Khurasani
claimed the attack was justified because the Pakistani army has allegedly long
been killing innocent children and families of their fighters.

He vowed more such militant attacks and told Pakistani civilians to detach
themselves from all military institution.

The Pakistani Taliban also posted photographs of six Islamic fighters they said
took part in the Peshawar assault. In one photo, the militants are seen wearing
army fatigues, standing with a local Taliban leader in what the statement
claimed one of the Pakistani tribal regions.

LOAD-DATE: December 17, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTNS


                  Copyright 2014 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              54 of 143 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                    December 17, 2014 Wednesday 11:40 AM GMT

Pakistan to end death penalty moratorium in terror cases after Taliban school
attack;
Nawaz Sharif's office announces Pakistan to end moratorium on death penalty
following Taliban attack on school that killed 141 people - most of them
children

BYLINE: By Ashfaq Yusufzai Peshawar

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 441 words


Pakistan is to end its moratorium on the death penalty for terrorism cases,
Prime Minister Nawaz Sharif has announced, with a view to executing Taliban
militants already convicted by courts.

"Dozens of Taliban militants have been convicted by court and are waiting to be
hanged but we have not been able to execute their sentences due to the
moratorium on the death penalty," Mr Sharif told an All Parties Conference held
in Peshawar on Wednesday.

"I announce an end to the moratorium."

His comments came in the aftermath of yesterday's Taliban attack on a school in
the north-western city of Peshawar that left 144 dead.

Pakistan currently has around 8,000 prisoners sentenced to - and awaiting -
death by hanging, including dozens of militants.

But while hanging remains on the Pakistani statute book and judges continue to
pass the death sentence, a de facto moratorium on executions has been in place
since 2008.

Only one person has been executed since then, a soldier convicted by a court
martial and hanged in November 2012.

Three convicted terrorists from the extremist group Lashkar-i-Jhangvi (LeJ) were
handed down death sentences in 2004.

These were scheduled for August 20, 21 and 22, 2013 but the executions were
defered at the last moment, lawyer Shah Nawaz told Daily Telegraph.

Attaullah Khan was handed the death sentence in six cases by an anti-terrorism
court in Karachi on July. 6, 2004 while Mohammad Azam received death sentences
in four cases by the same court on August 21 that same year.

Another militant Jalal Shah was given the death sentence for related offences.

Human rights groups have petitioned the government to extend the moratorium on
the death penalty.

Militant organisations have threatened the Nawaz Sharif-led ruling Pakistan
Muslim League against carrying out executions of their men, he said.

Last year, the TTP warned that government that it will have to "pay a price" for
execution of the Taliban prisoners. It had alleged that the government had
issued the death warrant for TTP prisoners under US pressure. It has warned the
government of attacks if it went ahead with planned executions of militants.

Even judges were afraid of handing down strict punishments to the Taliban
militants because they fear reprisals, Mr Sharif said.

But recent incidents in which the Tehreek Taliban Pakistan has killed civilians
and forces across the entire country have led to the government's decidion to
lift the moratorium on the death penalty, he said.

"We are going to start executing all those awaiting executions," Nawaz Sharif
told reporters in Peshawar. "We will not spare anyone killing civilians and
students".

LOAD-DATE: December 17, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTNS


                  Copyright 2014 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              55 of 143 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                    December 17, 2014 Wednesday 9:10 AM GMT

Pakistan to end death penalty moratorium in terror cases after Taliban school
attack;
Nawaz Sharif's office announces Pakistan to end moratorium on death penalty
following Taliban attack on school that killed 141 people - most of them
children

BYLINE: By AFP

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 187 words


Pakistan is to end its moratorium on the death penalty in terror-related cases,
the prime minister's office announced on Wednesday, a day after Taliban
militants killed 141 people in an attack on a school.

The assault on the army-run school in the northwestern city of Peshawar, the
deadliest terror attack in Pakistan's history, has triggered widespread
revulsion.

Political and military leaders have vowed to wipe out the home-grown Islamist
insurgency that has killed thousands of ordinary Pakistanis in recent years.

"The prime minister has approved abolishment of moratorium on the execution of
death penalty in terrorism-related cases," an official from Sharif's office
said.

Hanging remains on the Pakistani statute book and judges continue to pass the
death sentence, but a de facto moratorium on civilian executions has been in
place since 2008.

Only one person has been executed since then, a soldier convicted by a court
martial and hanged in November 2012.

Rights campaign group Amnesty International estimates that Pakistan has more
than 8,000 prisoners on death row, most of whom have exhausted the appeals
process.

LOAD-DATE: December 17, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTNS


                  Copyright 2014 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              56 of 143 DOCUMENTS


                 BBC Monitoring Former Soviet Union - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                           December 18, 2014 Thursday

Putin promises probe into attacks on terror suspects' families in Chechnya

LENGTH: 431 words


Russian President Vladimir Putin has said that reports that the homes of the
families of suspected militants in Chechnya have been burned down require a
thorough investigation. He was speaking at his end-of-year news conference in
Moscow on 18 December, which was broadcast live on official state television
channel Rossiya 1 and other Russian networks.

Responding to a question from Dozhd TV's Kseniya Sobchak, who expressed concern
at the situation and asked whether the president would support those who had
lost their homes, after jokingly admonishing his press secretary Dmitriy Peskov
for allowing Sobchak to speak, Putin said: "In Russia everybody must observe the
effective laws, and nobody is considered guilty until they are found guilty by a
court."

However, he added, as a rule, the relatives of terrorists are "at least aware"
of their plans "in the overwhelming majority of cases".

"But this does not give anybody, including the Chechen leader, the right to seek
extrajudicial reprisals," Putin said, adding that "the relevant law-enforcement
agencies are currently conducting a preliminary check into that".

The attacks on the homes of suspected militants' families came about following
an announcement by head of the Chechen Republic Ramzan Kadyrov, who said the
militants' families bore responsibility for a recent attack in Groznyy that
resulted in the deaths of 14 security personnel. Putin noted that Kadyrov's
statement had probably met the expectations of the people of Chechnya; however,
he said, Kadyrov "had no right" to say what he said.

Putin also noted that, as those responsible for burning down the houses were
wearing masks at the time, their identities would need to be determined.
"Kadyrov's statement may simply have been emotional, and someone could have
taken advantage," he said, promising that, whatever the results of their
investigation, the relevant authorities would react accordingly.

However, Putin said, the methods applied in Chechnya were in line with global
practice in the fight against terror. He drew parallels with Israel, and with
the contents of the recently-released report on torture methods applied by the
CIA. "We just bore witness to the fact that torture was legalized in the USA
after 9/11. How can it be explained? Furthermore, not only was it legalized, but
a methodology was developed for using torture," he said.

"Life is hard and varied", he said, "but we must stick to the law". "If we go
outside the framework of the law, we will be drawn into chaos," Putin concluded.

Source: Rossiya 1 TV, Moscow, in Russian 0911 gmt 18 Dec 14

LOAD-DATE: December 18, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2014 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              57 of 143 DOCUMENTS


                        BBC Monitoring Central Asia Unit
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                           December 18, 2014 Thursday

Uzbekistan: Shanghai anti-terror body condemns Pakistan terror attack

LENGTH: 220 words


Excerpt from report by Uzbek news website 12news.uz on 18 December

Tashkent, 18 December: The Executive Committee of the Shanghai Cooperation
Organization's Regional Anti-Terrorism Structure (SCO's RATS) has strongly
condemned the act of terrorism carried out in [Pakistan's] Peshawar city on 16
December.

[Passage omitted: covered details: over 140 people most of whom schoolchildren
died in the attack]

Pakistan is an observer state in the SCO, and the SCO's RATS pays a particular
attention to the situation in that country. Therefore, the SCO's RATS is ready
to provide comprehensive assistance to Pakistan's relevant agencies in combating
terrorism, separatism and extremism.

The Executive Committee of the organization strongly condemned terrorists'
violence against civilians, especially young children, and expressed condolences
to this terrorist attack's victims, their relatives and friends.

The SCO, which is a constantly operating inter-governmental organization,
comprises China, Kazakhstan, Kyrgyzstan, Russia, Tajikistan and Uzbekistan. And
the observer countries in the SCO are Afghanistan, Pakistan, Iran, India and
Mongolia. The organization's partners in dialogue are Belarus, Turkey and Sri
Lanka. The Executive Committee of the SCO RATS is based in Tashkent.

Source: 12news.uz, Tashkent, in Russian 18 Dec 14

LOAD-DATE: December 18, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2014 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              58 of 143 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring Middle East - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                           December 18, 2014 Thursday

Saudi king condemns Pakistan terror attack in Peshawar

LENGTH: 186 words


Text of report in English by Saudi state-owned official news agency SPA website

[Unattributed report: "Custodian of the Two Holy Mosques condoles Pakistan's
President on victims of terrorist attack on a school in Pakistan"]

Riyadh, 18 December, 2014 - The Custodian of the Two Holy Mosques King Abdallah
Bin-Abd-al-Aziz Al Sa'ud, has sent a cable of condolences to President Memnon
Hussein of the Islamic Republic of Pakistan on the victims of the terrorist
attack on one of the Army's schools.

In his cable, the King said, "We have learned in severe pain about the news of
the terrorist incident, which took place in one of the Army's school in your
sisterly country and resulted in victims and the injured. As we strongly condemn
these criminal acts, we express to your Excellency, the families of the victims,
and the brotherly people of Pakistan our condolences, praying to Allah Almighty
to bless the souls of the deceased, wishing a speedy recovery for the injured,
and praying to protect you and the brotherly people of Pakistan from any harm

Source: SPA news agency website, Riyadh, in English 0000 gmt 18 Dec 14

LOAD-DATE: December 18, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2014 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              59 of 143 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring Middle East - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                           December 18, 2014 Thursday

Bahrain condemns terrorist attack in Yemen's Al-Baydah region

LENGTH: 164 words


Text of report in English by state-owned Bahrain News Agency

Manama, 17 December - Bahrain strongly condemned the terror blast which left
dozens of innocent people dead among students and civilians in Al-Bayda
province, Yemen.

In a statement tonight, it extended condolences to Yemen government, people and
bereaved families, wishing the injured quick recovery in the aftermath of this
heinous terror bombing.

In the statement, it backed the efforts of Yemeni President Abd-Rabbuh Mansur
Hadi] to restore security and stability for the State to regain control of the
country.

Bahrain reiterated its firm condemnation of all terrorist acts, in all their
manifestations and forms and regardless of their motives, as well as
renunciation of violence and extremism.

It also called on the international community to exert more efforts to combat
terrorism, root out this heinous scourge and dry up the sources of terrorist
funding.

Source: Bahrain News Agency, Manama, in English 0149 gmt 18 Dec 14

LOAD-DATE: December 18, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2014 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              60 of 143 DOCUMENTS


                        BBC Monitoring Central Asia Unit
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                           December 18, 2014 Thursday

Turkmen leader condemns terrorist attack in Pakistan

LENGTH: 131 words


Text of report by state-owned Turkmen TV Altyn Asyr channel on 17 December

The president of Turkmenistan, Gurbanguly Berdimuhamedow, has sent a message of
condolences to the president of the Islamic Republic Pakistan, Mamnoon Hussain,
over the terrorist attack in the city of Peshawar that resulted in numerous
causalities. It is too sad that children have suffered in the incident, the
state leader noted on the message.

Turkmenistan, resolutely condemning any form of terrorism and extremism, wholly
supports the efforts by the international community in combating and eradicating
this evil, the message says.

The president of Turkmenistan conveyed words of sympathy and support to kith and
kin of the victims.

Source: Turkmen TV Altyn Asyr channel, Ashgabat, in Turkmen 1600 gmt 17 Dec 14

LOAD-DATE: December 18, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2014 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              61 of 143 DOCUMENTS


                                The Bolton News

                           December 18, 2014 Thursday

Bolton politicians condemn terrorist attack on Pakistan school

BYLINE: Elaine O'Flynn

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 335 words


BOLTON'S British Pakistani politicians have condemned a terrorist attack on a
school in Pakistan that left 132 children dead.

Members of Tehreek-e-Taliban, the Pakistani Taliban, attacked an army school in
the region of Peshawar on Tuesday, firing indiscriminately at pupils and setting
off bombs.

Yasmin Qureshi, MP for Bolton South East, appeared on BBC Breakfast and ITV's
Good Morning Britain to discuss the attacks, which she described as
"horrifying".

She argues that the international community must now rally around Pakistan and
support the government to prevent future attacks.

"I think the UK and the rest of the world needs to help Pakistan, in relation to
law enforcement, providing humanitarian assistance," she said.

"Military intervention doesn't solve anything.

"I entirely understand and respect people who see Tuesday's attack as a local
issue for the Pakistani government.

"However Pakistanis have been fighting the war on terror because of us.

"They have put themselves in that position of vulnerability on our behalf...
since they supported America and the west they have now been targeted.

"14,000 people have died over the last 10 years in Pakistan as a consequence.

"At the end of the day, for our security we need the situation in the region to
cool down and become calm. It is in our best interest."

Sajjad Karim, a Greater Manchester MEP, described the attack as horrific during
a speech to the European Parliament.

Speaking in the European Parliament, he said: "Many students and teachers at a
school in Peshawar had their lives brutally ended by the acts of a group of
deranged extremists.

"This indiscriminate and horrific attack by the Taliban is an act of pure
barbarism.

"Yet again, the citizens of Pakistan saw true evil, the very worst of human
nature.

"It now needs to respond with the best of Pakistan.

"To all those rescue workers, ambulances and army personnel who are helping to
end this tragedy, I salute you.

"And my thoughts and prayers are with everyone caught up in this situation."

LOAD-DATE: December 18, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2014 NewsQuest Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              62 of 143 DOCUMENTS



                               Daily Star Online

                     December 18, 2014 Thursday 8:40 AM GMT

Release of The Interview SCRAPPED over terror attack fears

BYLINE: Andy Wells

LENGTH: 493 words


THE PLANNED release of The Interview - a film that depicts a plot to kill North
Korea leader Kim Jong-Un - has been scrapped over fears of a terror attack.

The Seth Rogen and James Franco comedy was set to be released on Christmas Day,
but the controversial storyline has forced Sony Pictures to sensationally cancel
their plans.

It had been feared that North Korean hackers were threatening terrorist attacks
over the fictionalised plot of the assassination of Kim Jong-Un and some cinema
chains had already pulled the movie from its screens.

In a statement, Sony said it was cancelling the release "in light of the
decision by the majority of our exhibitors not to show the film".

The studio, which has been shaken by hacker leaks over the past several weeks,
said it respected and shared in the exhibitors' concerns.

brightcove.createExperiences;  Steve Carell

The statement said: "We are deeply saddened at this brazen effort to suppress
the distribution of a movie, and in the process do damage to our company, our
employees, and the American public.

"We stand by our film-makers and their right to free expression and are
extremely disappointed by this outcome."

If follows an earlier decision to scrap the film's New York premiere, while
hackers named Guardians of Peace have already carried out a cyber attack on Sony
and warned members of the public not to watch the film.

They had also warned of terror attacks on the scale of the September 11
atrocities.

brightcove.createExperiences;

The cancellation has not gone down well in the acting world, with a host of
Hollywood stars venting their fury on Twitter.

Ben Stiller said: "Really hard to believe this is the response to a threat to
freedom of expression here in America."

Stressing that he was speaking "as a creative person, not any kind of expert",
he added: "Terror threats shouldn't dictate free expression. That's my opinion."

Rob Lowe, who stared in the West Wing, said: "Wow. Everyone caved. The hackers
won. An utter and complete victory for them. Wow."

Comedian Jimmy Kimmel branded the move an "un-American act of cowardice that
validates terrorist actions and sets a terrifying precedent".

And Steve Carrell tweeted: "Sad day for creative expression."

The Department of Homeland Security in America said there was "no credible
intelligence to indicate an active plot against movie theatres", but noted it
was still analysing messages Guardians of Peace.

The FBI is investigating the identity of the hackers, but suspicion has centred
on North Korea, which previously issued warnings over The Interview.

Sony did not say what its plans for The Interview now are, or whether the film's
release could potentially happen at a later date, although an online-only
viewing of the release has been suggested by those still keen to see it.

brightcove.createExperiences;

LOAD-DATE: December 18, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDS


              Copyright 2014 Northern and Shell Media Publications
                              All Rights Reserved

                              63 of 143 DOCUMENTS



                          The Daily Telegraph (London)

                           December 18, 2014 Thursday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

Terror attack was days away, says Yard chief

BYLINE: Steven Swinford

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 294 words


BRITAIN was "days away" from a terrorist attack similar to the Sydney siege
before it was foiled by security services, the head of the Metropolitan Police
has said.

Sir Bernard Hogan-Howe disclosed that terrorists had been "very close" to
"hurting someone badly or killing them" before they were foiled. He disclosed
that five terrorist plots in London had been foiled in the past four months
alone and demanded an extra £50million from the Government to fund
counter-terror operations.

He said that children as young as 15, including girls, have been going to Syria
to fight with the extremists of Islamic State of Iraq and the Levant before
trying to return to Britain.

Asked by LBC Radio if the terrorists had been weeks away from carrying out an
attack, he said: "You could argue much closer. I'm acknowledging days. Very,
very close."

Sir Bernard said there is "no doubt" that there are terrorists just as dangerous
as the Sydney attacker operating in the UK. "There are people out there who are
dangerous and that's why we keep arresting them, because we need to stop them
hurting people," he said.

"It's clear [that in Sydney] you've got a radicalised individual who had a
weapon and took many people hostage. That is a terrifying prospect and very
difficult to guard against. The best defence we all have is good intelligence."

The Government last month said it would make available an extra £130million over
the next two years for the security services but Sir Bernard said more was
needed, as pursuing terrorists was like trying to track a "needle in a
haystack".

He said there had been a significant rise in the number of 16 to 18-year-olds
going to Syria: "We even had 15-yearolds and it's changed because we have seen
more young girls or women going."

LOAD-DATE: December 18, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DTL


                  Copyright 2014 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              64 of 143 DOCUMENTS



                                  The Guardian

                     December 18, 2014 Thursday 8:25 PM GMT

Pakistan court grants bail to alleged leader of Mumbai terror attack;
Court says it has insufficient evidence to link Zaki-ur-Rahman Lakhvi to 2008
assault in which 166 people died

BYLINE: Jon Boone in Islamabad

SECTION: WORLD NEWS

LENGTH: 266 words


One day after Pakistan's prime minister vowed to crack down on terrorism, a
court has granted bail to the man accused of masterminding the deadly 2008
assault on Mumbai.

The decision by an anti-terrorism court in Rawalpindi to release Zaki-ur-Rahman
Lakhvi after finding insufficient evidence to link him to the attacks drew sharp
criticism from New Delhi. The country has long demanded action against
Lashkar-e-Taiba, the terrorist group co-founded by Lakhvi that was behind the
three-day assault by 10 young "fidayeen" suicide fighters in which 166 people
died.

Investigators have copious amounts of evidence provided by Ajmal Kasab, the sole
survivor of the attack team, and David Headley, a Pakistani-American extremist
who conducted surveillance operations on the Taj Mahal Palace hotel and other
targets in Mumbai.

The Indian home minister, Rajnath Singh, called the decision "very unfortunate".
"India has given enough evidence [against Lakhvi]. We expect the Pakistan
government to appeal at the earliest," he said.

Lakhvi's lawyer said his client had been granted bail on the basis of surety
bonds of more than £6,000 and could be free in under a week.

Following the massacre by the Pakistani Taliban of 141 people at a school in
Peshawar this week, Pakistan's prime minister, Nawaz Sharif, vowed his country
would " continue the war against terrorism until the last terrorist is
eliminated ".

He promised there "will be no differentiation between 'good' and 'bad' Taliban",
a reference to the long history of Pakistan's clandestine support for anti-India
militant groups, such as Lashkar-e-Taiba.

LOAD-DATE: December 18, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBGNS


  Copyright 2014 The Guardian, a division of Transcontinental Media Group Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              65 of 143 DOCUMENTS



                                  The Guardian

                     December 18, 2014 Thursday 4:19 AM GMT

Pakistan attack reveals the truth about terrorism: it kills more poor Muslims
than rich westerners;
In 2013, 12 people died in terrorist attacks in the west compared with 22,000 in
non-western countries. How can poor Muslims escape the scourge of Islamist
extremism?

BYLINE: Ben Doherty

SECTION: COMMENT IS FREE

LENGTH: 772 words


Those who suffer most from Islamist extremism are not people in rich western
nations, but other poor Muslims.

This is the fundamental truth that obliterates the false cloak of righteousness
so ostentatiously donned by Islamist jihadists: the very people these misguided
men and women claim to be fighting for, are the ones they kill in greatest
numbers.

Headlines in the western world seize upon the self-evident fact, borne out by
the statistics: terrorism is rising, and more and more people are dying from it.
But there is a fundamental deceit to this claim. The devil in the detail lies in
who is being killed.

The city of Sydney - however the attack in Martin Place is characterised - has
been shaken to its core by brutal, senseless assault this week, as London, New
York, Madrid, and others were before.

But the Taliban's attack on a school in Pakistan a day later, killing at least
141 people, 132 of them schoolchildren, is a stark reminder of the outsized
price paid by the Muslim world for vile actions of a misguided few proclaiming
the cause of their religion.

The global terrorism database maintained by the National Consortium for the
Study of Terrorism and Responses to Terrorism at the University of Maryland
shows a surge in terrorist attacks in recent years - from around 5,000 in 2011
to more than 8,000 in 2012 and nearly 12,000 in 2013 - the three largest years
on record for terrorist attacks.

But, as Bernard Keane analyses here, the raw numbers are not the full story. The
number of terror attacks in western countries did rise, and rise significantly,
last year.

In 2012, there were 140 incidents of terrorism in the west. In 2013, that figure
was more than 250, the increase driven by a sharp rise in attacks in Northern
Ireland and Greece. Twelve people died.

But those figures are dwarfed by attacks outside the west.

In non-western countries, the increase was from 8,000 incidents in 2012 to more
than 11,000 in 2013, the rise driven by continuing sectarian violence in Iraq
and Pakistan, and deepening unrest in the Philippines and Egypt.

The number of non-western terrorism deaths in 2013 was over 22,000.

In November of this year, nearly 5,000 people died in Islamist fundamentalist
terror attacks, the majority of those at the hands of Islamic State (Isis) or
Boko Haram.

Just over half the dead were civilians, "the vast majority ... Muslim," the
International Centre for the Study of Radicalisation said.

The "war on terror" is a tool of political rhetoric, not a real war. But its
victims are real. And, overwhelmingly, it is the world's Muslims who suffer
most. Pakistan has lost more civilians to the "war on terror" than almost any
other nation.

In the wake of the Peshawar attack this week, the hardest part for Pakistan now
will be to hold its line. The country's greatest weapon against the scourge of
terrorism is not more bullets in response, but education.

It is girls and boys in school.

In Pakistan's Swat Valley two years ago, I visited an army-run school called
"Sabaoon", an Urdu word that broadly translates as "the first light of dawn".

It was a school for suicide bombers.

The boys who sat quietly there, in their green-and-white-striped uniforms, had
previously been kidnapped or brainwashed by the Taliban. They'd been arrested or
rescued from the insurgents' mountain strongholds. Some had carried weapons into
war, some had killed before.

One 15-year-old told me how he'd been dressed by his militant "brothers" in his
heavy explosive vest one winter morning, and carefully told which wires to touch
together when he reached the police checkpoint. Then he was driven to the police
post, and told to walk towards the men in uniform.

It was only the intervention of a quick-thinking officer, who saw him shaking in
fear as he approached, that meant that this boy was alive and in school to tell
his story.

I asked the head of the school, a gruff, uniformed major, what the root cause of
radicalisation was.

What was the fundamental, underlying reason why these boys could be convinced to
kill in the name of a distorted religious interpretation, to don a vest they
knew would kill them and walk towards a target?

"Poverty," he said.

"It's poverty, and that comes from a lack of education."

Boys in school, he explained, didn't grow up to become suicide bombers. Young
men with good jobs didn't run away to the hills to join the Taliban.

Literate girls go on to lift entire families from poverty. Women with an
education don't allow their sons to be radicalised.

The cost now might seem too high, but Pakistan must keep its children in school.

That's how the war will be won. And the whole world will benefit.

LOAD-DATE: December 18, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBGNS


  Copyright 2014 The Guardian, a division of Transcontinental Media Group Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              66 of 143 DOCUMENTS



                               Independent.co.uk

                    December 18, 2014 Thursday 10:18 AM GMT

Peshawar attack: Pakistan police warn terrorists could plant magnetic bombs on
school buses;
Letter urges schools to increase security

BYLINE: Heather Saul

SECTION: FRONTPAGE

LENGTH: 183 words


Pakistan police are warning schools to check underneath buses and vehicles
carrying students amid fears terrorists are planning to plant magnetic bombs on
school buses.

Islamabad authorities issued a letter urging schools to up security after the
Taliban attack on a Peshawar school, where more than 130 children were killed by
seven militants.

The letter, a copy of which has been obtained by Sky News, asked schools to
check under vehicles transporting students for explosive devices.

In the wake of Tuesday's bloodshed, Prime Minister Nawaz Sharif lifted a ban on
the death penalty for terrorist crimes, which has been in place since 2008.

In pictures: Aftermath of Taliban massacre in Peshawar

In Kabul, Pakistani army chief Raheel Sharif met in Kabul with Afghan President
Ashraf Ghani and with Afghan and US military officials and shared intelligence
about the attack, the military said.

The Pakistani Taliban, which has waged an insurrection against the government
for a decade, claimed responsibility. The group says it was seeking revenge for
a military assault launched in June in North Waziristan.

LOAD-DATE: December 18, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBI


           Copyright 2014 Independent Digital News and Media Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              67 of 143 DOCUMENTS



                            The Independent (London)

                           December 18, 2014 Thursday
                                 First Edition

Australian PM orders review of café terror attack

BYLINE: MATT SIEGEL IN SYDNEY

SECTION: WORLD; Pg. 34

LENGTH: 254 words


The Australian Prime Minister, Tony Abbott, has ordered an investigation into
Tuesday's siege in Sydney after tough new security laws and the courts failed to
stop a convicted felon from walking into a busy café with a concealed shotgun.

Three people were killed, including the hostage-taker Man Haron Monis, when
police stormed the café early on Tuesday morning to free terrified hostages held
at gunpoint for 16 hours. Police are investigating whether the two captives were
killed by Monis or died in crossfire.

Monis, a self-styled sheikh who received political asylum from Iran in 2001, was
well known to the Australian authorities, having been charged as an accessory to
murder as well as with dozens of counts of sexual and indecent assault. He had
been free on bail.

Australia passed sweeping security laws in October aimed at stopping people from
becoming radicalised and going to fight in conflicts such as those in Iraq and
Syria, where scores of Australians have joined militant groups. The laws were
also intended to prevent attacks at home.

Despite the new powers, Mr Abbott said Monis was not on any security watchlist
and managed to walk undetected into the Lindt Chocolate Café with a legally
obtained shotgun during a busy workday morning.

New South Wales state police later contradicted Mr Abbott's assertion, telling
Reuters in a statement that there was no record of Monis having held a gun
licence.

Monis was convicted in 2012 of sending hate mail to the families of Australian
soldiers killed in Afghanistan.

LOAD-DATE: December 17, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: IA


                      Copyright 2014 Independent Print Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                              68 of 143 DOCUMENTS



                                   MailOnline

                     December 18, 2014 Thursday 2:51 PM GMT

Pakistani court grants bail to alleged Mumbai attacks mastermind TWO days after
the country's prime minister vowed to crack down on terrorists following school
attack

BYLINE: HENRY AUSTIN FOR MAILONLINE and AFP

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 522 words



     ·    Zaki-ur-Rehman Lakhvi is accused of planning the 60 hour Mumbai siege
     ·    The attack left 166 people dead and damaged Pakistani relations with
          India
     ·    There was public outrage after the latest Taliban attack on a school
     ·    148 pupils and teachers died at the Army Public School in Peshawar
     ·    It prompted Prime minister Nawaz Sharif to promise a terrorist
          crackdown
     ·    Less than 48-hours later Lakhvi was bailed by an Islamabad court


Just two days after the country's prime minister Nawaz Sharif promised to crack
down on terror groups, a Pakistani court granted bail to the granted bail to the
alleged mastermind of the 2008 terror attacks in the Indian city of Mumbai.

Horrified by the attack on the Army Public School and College in Peshawar which
left 148 pupils and teachers dead, Sharif promised 'to continue the war against
terrorism till the last terrorist is eliminated.'

Nonetheless, a court bailed Zaki-ur-Rehman Lakhvi, who is accused of planning
the 60-hour siege on India's economic capital left 166 people dead, after 10
gunmen attacked luxury hotels, a popular cafe, a train station and a Jewish
center.

Relations between the two nuclear-armed rivals worsened dramatically after the
carnage which was blamed on the banned Pakistani militant group Lashkar-e-Taiba
(LeT).

The court's decision came less than 48-hours Pakistani Prime Minister Nawaz
Sharif vowed to crack down on terror groups in Pakistan, as the country reels
from the attack on the Army Public School and College in Peshawar.

At least Seven extremist gunmen who sprayed children with bullets as they sat
receiving first aid tuition and exploded suicide bombs.

Sharif also announced that a six-year moratorium on the death penalty would be
lifted for those convicted of terror offences.

None of this stopped a judge at a court in the country's capital Islamabad, from
granting bail to Lakhvi, the man prosecutors say masterminded the devastating
Mumbai attacks.

'We had moved a bail application with the Islamabad anti-terror court on
December 10, today the judge granted bail to my client after hearing arguments
from both sides,' his lawyer Rizwan Abbasi told AFP.

Prosecutor Mohammad Chaudhry Azhar confirmed the court had granted bail.

The horror of the Mumbai carnage played out on live television around the world,
as commandos battled the heavily-armed gunmen, who arrived by sea on the evening
of November 26.

It took the authorities three days to regain full control of the city and New
Delhi has long said there is evidence that 'official agencies' in Pakistan were
involved in plotting the attack, something Islamabad denies.

The sole surviving gunman from Mumbai, Pakistani-born Mohammed Ajmal Kasab, was
hanged in India in 2012.

The attacks traumatised India, exposing the antiquated weapons and methods of
the local police force and revealing crucial gaps in the country's defences.

They also derailed a nascent peace process between nuclear-armed India and
Pakistan.

In the wake of the Peshawar massacre on Tuesday, Sharif said Pakistan would not
distinguish between 'good Taliban and bad Taliban' as it seeks to crush the
scourge of homegrown Islamist militancy.

LOAD-DATE: December 18, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDM


                   Copyright 2014 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              69 of 143 DOCUMENTS


                    BBC Monitoring Asia Pacific - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                            December 19, 2014 Friday

North Korea expresses sympathy for Pakistan terror attack victims - KCNA

LENGTH: 109 words


Text of report by North Korean news agency KCNA

Pyongyang, 19 Dec: DPRK Premier Pak Pong Ju Thursday sent a message of sympathy
to Muhammad Nawaz Sharif, prime minister of Pakistan, in connection with the
recent terrorist act in Pakistan which claimed many casualties.

The message expressed deep sympathy and consolation to the victims and their
bereaved families.

Re-clarifying the consistent stand of the DPRK government against all forms of
terrorist acts, the message extended solidarity to the government of Pakistan in
its efforts to put the situation under control and preserve social security.

Source: KCNA website, Pyongyang, in English 0000gmt 19 Dec 14

LOAD-DATE: December 19, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2014 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              70 of 143 DOCUMENTS


                                Gazette (Essex)

                            December 19, 2014 Friday

I'd have been working in Sydney terror attack cafe

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 331 words


A CAFE worker has spoken of his shock at the terrorist siege in Sydney.

Elliott Vale had given up working at the the Lindt Chocolate Cafe in central
Sydney, Australia, a few weeks ago to prepare for a surprise flight back to
Essex.

The 23-year-old had not told his family or friends of his plans so he could give
them a Christmas surprise.

But his secret had a terrifying impact on his loved ones as they frantically
tried to get in touch with him when news of the armed siege broke.

While friends were flooding his Facebook page with messages of concern, Elliott
was oblivious to what was going on as he was on his long flight back.

He said: "I'm shocked by what's happened. It's just crazy.

"I spoke to my mum first just as I got off the runway to confirm I was fine.
They all thought I was still in Australia.

"My family are so relieved.

"I had 180 notifications on Facebook and texts and calls. It was incredible.

"Obviously at the time I didn't have a clue what was going on."

Central Sydney was put on lockdown after gunman Man Haron Monis entered the cafe
in the heart of Sydney's business district and took a number of hostages.

The siege ended in the early hours of Tuesday as armed commandos stormed the
cafe and killed the gunman in a dramatic two-minute shoot out.

The gunman killed cafe manager Tori Johnson, 34, after he had bravely tried to
wrestle the gun out of the terrorist's hands.

Sydney lawyer and mum-ofthree Katrina Dawson, 38, also died from her injuries in
hospital.

Elliott, of Belvedere Place, Maldon, had been working at the cafe just over two
weeks before the seige.

Had he not been offered a new role at the Oakhouse in Maldon High Street, he
would have still been working there.

Elliott, who had been away travelling the world since January, said: "It's
pretty scary really.

"I would 100 per cent have been working at Lindt if I had still been in Sydney.

"I worked with Tori Johnson, the manager, most days and got on really well with
him.

"It's so sad to hear what happened."

LOAD-DATE: December 19, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2014 NewsQuest Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              71 of 143 DOCUMENTS



                                  The Guardian

                     December 19, 2014 Friday 10:45 AM GMT

Pakistan to challenge bail granted to alleged leader of 2008 Mumbai attacks;
Anti-terrorism court's decision to bail Zaki-ur-Rahman Lakhvi has provoked harsh
criticism in India

BYLINE: Jon Boone in Islamabad

SECTION: WORLD NEWS

LENGTH: 315 words


A state prosecutor in Pakistan said on Friday that the country would appeal
against the bail granted to the man accused of masterminding the deadly 2008
terrorist attack on the Indian city of Mumbai.

The decision by an anti-terrorism court to bail Zaki-ur-Rehman Lakhvi provoked a
storm of criticism from India on Thursday, particularly given the outpouring of
Indian public sympathy for the victims of the Peshawar school massacre.

Government lawyer Mohammad Azhar Chaudhry said Lakhvi's bail, to be backed by
surety bonds of more than £6,000, would be challenged in court on Monday.

India has long demanded action against Lashkar-e-Taiba, the terrorist group
co-founded by Lakhvi that was responsible for the three-day assault on Mumbai by
10 young "fidayeen" suicide fighters in which 166 people died.

The Pakistani government's hopes for a thaw in diplomatic and trade relations
with its giant neighbour have foundered over Indian scepticism that Islamabad
will ever tackle militant groups it has long patronised as "strategic assets".

Investigators have copious amounts of evidence provided by Ajmal Kasab, the sole
survivor of the attack team, and David Headley, a Pakistani-American extremist
who conducted surveillance operations on the Taj Mahal Palace hotel and other
targets in Mumbai.

The Indian home minister, Rajnath Singh, said the decision to bail the
Lakshkar-e-Taiba leader was "very unfortunate" and called for the bail to be
challenged.

Following the massacre by the Pakistani Taliban of 141 people at a school in
Peshawar this week, Pakistan's prime minister, Nawaz Sharif, vowed his country
would "continue the war against terrorism until the last terrorist is
eliminated".

He promised there "will be no differentiation between 'good' and 'bad' Taliban",
a reference to the long history of Pakistan's clandestine support for anti-India
militant groups, such as Lashkar-e-Taiba.

LOAD-DATE: December 19, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBGNS


  Copyright 2014 The Guardian, a division of Transcontinental Media Group Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              72 of 143 DOCUMENTS



                          manchestereveningnews.co.uk

                     December 19, 2014 Friday 10:50 AM GMT

Boxer Amir Khan to donate £30,000 shorts to help rebuild Pakistani school
devastated by terrorist attack;
The 28-year-old, who said he was 'sickened' by the attack at the Peshawar army
school, wore the shorts in his recent Las Vegas points-win against Devon
Alexander

BYLINE: By Todd Fitzgerald

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 372 words


Bolton boxer Amir Khan will donate a £30,000 pair of shorts to help rebuild the
Peshawar army school where 141 children and staff were killed by the Taliban.

Khan, who is of Pakistani origin, wore the shorts in his recent Las Vegas
points-win against Devon Alexander.

He visited his old stomping ground, the Bolton School, the day after the
devastating terrorist attack in Peshawar.

Khan has raised money to build new schools in Pakistan in the past and has vowed
to help again following the tragic attack.

The 28-year-old said said he was 'sickened' by the 'horrific' killings, having
become a father himself in May with the arrival of daughter Lamysa.

"It was just very sad to see innocent kids being killed," he added.

"I want to donate the shorts for the Peshawar cause, rebuild a school and
strengthen security around the area.

"We are very lucky in England. We have good security and I will be able to send
my little girl to school and know she will be fine, but in Pakistan you cannot
do that."

The black, white and gold shorts emblazoned with 'Khan' have a waistband made
from 24-carat gold threading.

Following his US victory, his 30th in 33 contests, Khan now wants to fight
unbeaten American Floyd Mayweather, lauded as the best pound-for-pound fighter
in the world.

But Mayweather wants to fight Manny Pacquiao instead - prompting the Bolton
favourite to accuse him of 'looking for excuses not to fight him'.

Khan paid Bolton School students a visit to give them some advice on life - and
a few boxing tips - after returning to the UK earlier this week.

He spoke about his rise to become one of the world's best boxers at the school's
boys' junior division after taking up the sport at the age of eight.

The boxing legend told children that to achieve in life 'you have to work hard'
- and encouraged them to 'chase their dreams'.

He said: "It is all about having a dream and chasing that dream. At the age of
eight I had that dream to go to the Olympics. It is all to do with hard work."

On Sunday, Khan retained his WBC Silver Welterweight title - and took the belt
along for children to see.

Khan triumphantly returned to his gym at the Gloves Community Centre in Bolton
later the same day, to find a giant mural of himself on the wall.

LOAD-DATE: December 19, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBGMWNGMANC


                      Copyright 2014 Trinity Mirror, Plc.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              73 of 143 DOCUMENTS



                                  mirror.co.uk

                      December 19, 2014 Friday 2:14 PM GMT

Pakistan school attack: "We have killed all the children. What do we do now?"
transcripts of Taliban commanders revealed;
Pakistan Army release security logs showing how Taliban commanders relayed
orders to cold-hearted gunmen during the terrorist attack at a Peshwara school
which left 141 dead

BYLINE: By Ian Leonard

SECTION: NEWS,WORLD NEWS

LENGTH: 276 words


Shocking transcipts have revealed how cold-hearted Taliban gunmen carried out
the Peshawar school massacre.

The Pakistan Army released security logs showing how Taliban commanders relayed
orders to cold-hearted gunmen during the terrorist attack, which left 141 dead.

Pakistani news agency Dawn reported the last conversation between one of the
attackers, referred to as 'Abuzar' and his commander 'Umar'.

Abuzar says: "We have killed all the children in the auditorium. What do we do
now?

Umar replies: "Wait for the army people, kill them before blowing yourself up."

According to a security official, it was one of the last conversations the
attackers and their handler had shortly before two remaining suicide bombers
charged towards soldiers positioned outside a side entrance of the army-run
school.

This and other conversations between the attackers and their handlers during the
seven and a half hours siege on Tuesday will form part of an intelligence
dossier shared with Afghan authorities.

Haunting TV footage shows interior of Pakistan school after Taliban attack

Umar, also known as Umar Naray and Umar Khalifa, is believed to be a senior
militant in the Peshawar region.

Security officials believe he made the calls from Nazian district of
Afghanistan's Nangrahar province and now want the Afghan authorities to take
action.

Pakistan now believes the massacre was carried out by seven militants - five of
whom blew themselves up inside the administration block, and two others outside
it.

The attack resulted in the deaths of 132 children and nine members of staff.

Inside the school where 132 students and nine staff members were killed by
Taliban gunmen

LOAD-DATE: December 19, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDMI


                      Copyright 2014 Trinity Mirror, Plc.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              74 of 143 DOCUMENTS


                    BBC Monitoring Asia Pacific - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                           December 20, 2014 Saturday

China's Xinjiang denies rumour of new terrorist attack - Xinhua

LENGTH: 98 words


Text of report in English by official Chinese news agency Xinhua (New China News
Agency)

Urumqi, 20 Dec: The regional government of northwest China's Xinjiang Uygur
Autonomous Region on Saturday denied hearsay of a terrorist attack in Shache
County in Kashgar Prefecture.

Rumours have been circulating on WeChat, a popular mobile social network
application, over the past few days, according to the regional government's
publicity department.

Xinjiang remains stable and the police are tracing the source of the story, it
said.

Source: Xinhua news agency, Beijing, in English 0824gmt 20 Dec 14

LOAD-DATE: December 20, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2014 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              75 of 143 DOCUMENTS


                       BBC Monitoring Trans Caucasus Unit
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                           December 20, 2014 Saturday

Iran condemns terrorist attack on Nigerian village

LENGTH: 71 words


Iran has condemned the latest terrorist attack on a village in Nigeria, the Fars
news agency reported on 20 December.

"Foreign Ministry Spokesperson Marziyeh Afkham has condemned the terrorist
attack on a village in the northeast of Nigeria, which led to the death of over
30 people and the abduction of 185 women and children from the village," Fars
reported.

Source: Fars News Agency website, Tehran, in Persian 1019gmt 20 Dec 14

LOAD-DATE: December 20, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2014 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              76 of 143 DOCUMENTS



                               Belfast Telegraph

                           December 20, 2014 Saturday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

US 'ill-prepared' for terror nuke attack or big disaster

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 89 words


WASHINGTON: The government is ill-prepared to handle a terrorist nuclear attack
or large natural disaster, a Congressional report has found.

The US Government Accountability Office said the Federal Emergency Management
Agency (Fema) did not keep proper track of relief efforts after tragedies, which
hampered work.

Based on internal documents, the probe also claimed Fema was not "aware of the
full range of information" and called on the body to create a new disaster
response plan. But it warned the project could take up to five years.

LOAD-DATE: December 20, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: BTT


                Copyright 2014 Belfast Telegraph Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              77 of 143 DOCUMENTS



                          China Daily European Edition

                           December 20, 2014 Saturday

Xinjiang denies rumor of new terrorist attack

SECTION: SOCIETY

LENGTH: 71 words


URUMQI - The regional government of northwest China's Xinjiang Uygur Autonomous
Region on Saturday denied hearsay of a terrorist attack in Shache County in
Kashgar Prefecture.

Rumors have been circulating on WeChat, a popular mobile social network
application, over the past few days, according to the regional government's
publicity department.

Xinjiang remains stable and the police are tracing the source of the story, it
said.

LOAD-DATE: December 20, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2014 China Daily Information Co
                              All Rights Reserved

                              78 of 143 DOCUMENTS



                               Independent.co.uk

                     December 20, 2014 Saturday 6:34 PM GMT

Peshawar school attack aftermath: Pakistan hangs 'terrorists' as executions
resume;
Human rights groups oppose the death penalty moratorium being lifted

BYLINE: Lizzie Dearden

SECTION: FRONTPAGE

LENGTH: 689 words


Pakistan hanged two convicted "terrorists" last night after lifting a moratorium
on the death penalty in the wake of the deadly Taliban attack on a school.

More than 130 children were killed by gunmen wearing suicide vests at the Army
Public School in Peshawar, sparking international outrage and demands in
Pakistan for a tougher response to the Taliban.

Prime Minister Nawaz Sharif lifted the moratorium on executions in terror cases
the day after the attack.

The home minister for Punjab, where the executions were carried out, said it
would "boost the morale of the nation" but the United Nations and human rights
organisations had urged the government not to reinstate the death penalty.

Mohammed Aqeel, known as Dr Usman, and Arshad Mahmood, who were hung prison in
the city of Faisalabad, were the first civilians to be executed since capital
punishment was suspended in 2008.

Pakistani media reported that Aqeel was convicted in relation to a deadly 2009
attack on the Rawalpindi army headquarters, and Mahmood for his role in a plot
to kill former President Pervez Musharraf in 2003.

Shuja Khanzada, Punjab's home minister, told The Associated Press: "We have
started these executions by hanging two terrorists. The executions of terrorists
will boost the morale of the nation, and we are planning to hang more terrorists
next week."

But human rights organisations including Amnesty International have raised
concerns about the death penalty after years of allegations of poor police
investigations and the use of torture to obtain confessions. There are an
estimated 8,000 people on death row.

Read more: PAKISTAN TAKES ON THE TALIBAN AFTER MASSACREUS drone strike 'kills
five Pakistani Taliban militants' THE FACES OF THE INNOCENT CHILDREN KILLED

David Griffiths, Amnesty International's Deputy Asia Pacific Director, said he
was disappointed that the Pakistani government had "given into fear and anger".

"As horrific as the attack on the Peshawar school was, more killings - this time
by the government - is never the answer to combating terrorism and crime," he
added.

The UN human rights office had made an appeal to refrain from resuming
executions, saying it would not stop terrorism and could feed a "cycle of
revenge".

"We urge the government not to succumb to widespread calls for revenge, not
least because those at most risk of execution in the coming days are people
convicted of different crimes, and can have had nothing to do with Wednesday's
premeditated slaughter," spokesperson Rupert Colville said.

Reprieve, a UK-based human rights charity, claimed many prisoners likely to be
hung were "simply not terrorists".

The charity gave the example of one man convicted at the age of 15 on the basis
of a confession he says was extracted after nine days of torture.

Maya Foa, a death penalty specialist at Reprieve, said: "The swift execution of
large numbers of people, convicted in trials falling well short of basic
standards, is not justice.

"The tragic events in Peshawar this week require a measured and reasoned
response, not a knee-jerk reaction that could see thousands of lives wantonly
put at risk."

The Pakistani Taliban claimed Tuesday's attack was in response to the army's
operations against its militants near the border with Afghanistan and vowed that
it was "just the trailer" to future terrorism if the crackdown continues.

But the government has upped its military action against militants in the
country's north-west, with international support, launching air and drone
strikes, as well as ground offensives.

In pictures: Aftermath of Taliban massacre in Peshawar

The military said 119 insurgents were killed in three different offensives in
the Khyber region Thursday and Friday - 62 in ground action and 57 in air
strikes. There was no immediate claim of civilian casualties.

Pakistan has long been accused of playing a double game when it comes to dealing
with militancy - fostering some militant groups that operate in Afghanistan and
India as a way of maintaining influence there, while pursuing other militants
who target the Pakistani state.

Additional reporting by AP

LOAD-DATE: December 20, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBI


           Copyright 2014 Independent Digital News and Media Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              79 of 143 DOCUMENTS


                            Manchester Evening News

                           December 20, 2014 Saturday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

Amir to auction off £30,000 shorts for Taliban-hit school;
Boxer offers help after 141 children and staff were killed in Pakistan terror
attack.

BYLINE: Todd Fitzgerald

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 369 words


BOLTON boxer Amir Khan will auction a £30,000 pair of shorts to help rebuild the
Peshawar army school where 141 children and staff were killed by the Taliban.

Khan, who is of Pakistani origin, wore the shorts in his recent Las Vegas
points-win against Devon Alexander.

He visited his old stamping ground, the Bolton School, the day after the
devastating terrorist attack in Peshawar.

Khan has raised money to build new schools in Pakistan in the past and has vowed
to help again following the tragic attack.

The 28-year-old said he was 'sickened' by the horrific killings, having become a
father himself in May with the arrival of daughter Lamysa.

"It was just very sad to see innocent kids being killed," he added. "I want to
donate the shorts for the Peshawar cause, rebuild a school and strengthen
security around the area.

"We are very lucky in England. We have good security and I will be able to send
my little girl to school and know she will be fine, but in Pakistan you cannot
do that."

The black, white and gold shorts emblazoned with 'Khan' have a waistband made
from 24-carat gold threading.

Following his US victory, his 30th in 33 contests, Khan now wants to fight
unbeaten American Floyd Mayweather.

But Mayweather wants to fight Manny Pacquiao instead - prompting the Bolton
favourite to accuse him of 'looking for excuses not to fight him'.

Khan paid Bolton School students a visit to give them some advice on life - and
a few boxing tips - after returning to the UK earlier this week.

He spoke about his rise to become one of the world's best boxers at the school's
boys' junior division after taking up the sport at the age of eight.

The boxing legend told children that to achieve in life 'you have to work hard'
- and encouraged them to 'chase their dreams'.

He said: "It is all about having a dream and chasing that dream. At the age of
eight I had that dream to go to the Olympics. It is all to do with hard work."

On Sunday, Khan retained his WBC Silver Welterweight title - and took the belt
along for children to see.

Khan triumphantly returned to his gym at the Gloves Community Centre in Bolton
later the same day, to find a giant mural of himself on the wall.

Khan: I've no interest in Kell Brook - Page 42

LOAD-DATE: December 20, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Boxer Amir Khan during his visit to Bolton School, fresh from his
latest win in. .Las Vegas. Inset: His £30,000 shorts that will be auctioned MARK
POWER

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: MEN


                     Copyright 2014 Manchester Evening News
                              All Rights Reserved

                              80 of 143 DOCUMENTS



                          China Daily European Edition

                            December 21, 2014 Sunday

Rumor-mongers of Xinjiang terrorist attack netted

SECTION: SOCIETY

LENGTH: 191 words


URUMQI -- Police in northwest China's Xinjiang Uygur autonomous region
apprehended two suspects for spreading rumors of a terrorist attack in Shache
county in Kashgar prefecture on Sunday.

The rumors have been circulating on messaging application WeChat and other
Internet forums over the past few days, according to the regional government's
publicity department.

Police have traced the source of the rumors to a suspect surnamed Sun in Kashgar
and another surnamed Jiao in Hami region.

The two have confessed the charges.

Shache has been hard hit by two terrorist attacks this year.

A gang of terrorists with knives and axes killed 37 civilians in an attack on
July 28. A local court sentenced 12 of the terrorists to death and 15 others to
death with a two-year reprieve in October.

Another attack on Nov. 29 saw 15 people, including 11 mobsters, killed and
another 14 people were injured.

Police said rumors on a new attack violate the regulation on public security
administrative punishments, and the suspects should be held responsible.

Violators of the regulation can be penalized from receiving police warnings,
fines to a 15-day detention.

LOAD-DATE: December 21, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2014 China Daily Information Co
                              All Rights Reserved

                              81 of 143 DOCUMENTS


                          Daily Record and Sunday Mail

                            December 21, 2014 Sunday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

It might be 26 years since 270 people lost their lives in the terrorist attack
but justice has no sell-by date in Scotland - Lord Advocate Frank Mulholland;
LOCKERBIE LAW CHIEF'S VOW TO FAMILIES

BYLINE: Mark Aitken

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 436 words


Scotland's top prosecutor has insisted Abdelbaset al-Megrahi was guilty of the
Lockerbie bombing and vowed to track down his accomplices.

Lord Advocate Frank Mulholland said there are no question marks over the
evidence that convicted Megrahi of the bombing of Pan Am Flight 103.

He has travelled to the United States to address families who lost loved ones in
the atrocity, 26 years ago today.

Megrahi's part in the bombing has been questioned in books, documentaries and
testimony to the Scottish Parliament.

A petition seeking "Justice For Megrahi", backed by politicians and relatives of
some victims, remains on Holyrood's books two years after Megrahi's death.

Mulholland will attend a memorial service at Arlington cemetery in Washington
today.

He will say: "Instability in Libya has meant some investigative opportunities
have required to be reassessed, which I know has been frustrating for family
members.

"However, our prosecutors and police officers, working with UK Government and US
colleagues, will continue to pursue this investigation, with the sole aim of
bringing those who acted along with Megrahi to justice.

"The Crown will never give up the fight to secure justice for the families of
those who died.

"It might be 26 years since 270 people lost their lives in the Mark Aitken ¦
terrorist attack, but justice has no sell-by date in Scotland.

"During the long inquiry, not one Crown Office investigator or prosecutor has
raised a concern about the evidence in this case.

"We remain committed to this investigation and our focus remains on the evidence
and not on speculation and supposition."

But Lockerbie campaigner Dr Jim Swire, who lost his daughter Flora, said
Megrahi's conviction was a "travesty of justice".

He said: "How can Mulholland justify saying there is no concern about the
evidence in this case when the Scottish Criminal Cases Review Commission (SCCRC)
found six reasons why there may be grave doubts about the reasons about the
trial of Megrahi?

"More than 20 relatives have lodged a request with the SCCRC asking them to
allow a further appeal against the verdict.

"The 'speculators', as Mr Mulholland calls us, have material which desperately
needs to be examined in a fair court of law."

Labour MSP Graeme Pearson, former head of the Scottish Crime and Drug
Enforcement Agency, said: "The constant questioning of Megrahi's conviction, on
the strength of not a great deal of evidence, has caused Lockerbie families
considerable torment.

"I would like to think the Lord Advocate's announcement will help begin a
process of dealing with reality rather than imagined conspiracy."

LOAD-DATE: December 21, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: EVIDENCE Mulholland, left, maintains Megrahi, right, was guilty

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: SML


             Copyright 2014 Scottish Daily Record & Sunday Mail Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                              82 of 143 DOCUMENTS



                                 Express Online

                      December 21, 2014 Sunday 5:01 PM GMT

Pakistani children unite to protest against Taliban terror attack

LENGTH: 142 words


SCORES of defiant army cadets carrying replica guns protested against the
slaughter of 148 children and teachers at a military college in Pakistan.

REX

A child protesting in Lahore yesterday

The school-age children marched through Lahore, 270 miles from Peshawar, scene
of the bloody massacre six days ago.

It was the latest showing of global revulsion against the Taliban.

Burials of the children killed in Tuesday's attack are continuing.

Taj Muhammad one of Peshawar's gravediggers admitted he had cried at the sight
of so many dead innocents.

brightcove.createExperiences; Related articles First picture emerges of evil
Taliban gunman who murdered 132 school children Death penalty returns to
Pakistan after Taliban school slaughter in Peshawar Pakistan army kill 77
Taliban 'monsters' in deadly airstrikes after Peshawar school attack

LOAD-DATE: December 21, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDE


              Copyright 2014 Northern and Shell Media Publications
                              All Rights Reserved

                              83 of 143 DOCUMENTS



                                   MailOnline

                      December 21, 2014 Sunday 6:57 AM GMT

From terror masterminds to suicide vests and attacks on the US Embassy:
Real-life horrors that inspire TV series Homeland... as fourth series reaches
its dramatic climax

BYLINE: DUNCAN GARDHAM FOR MAILONLINE

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 781 words



     ·    Spy drama Homeland fourth season ends tonight on Channel 4
     ·    Programme focuses on 'drone war' and conflict between CIA and
          Pakistani Inter-Services Intelligence agency
     ·    It has many similarities with real life horrors, such as the villain
          Haqqani
     ·    Also includes attack on a convoy so Haqqani and a band of fighters can
          get into the US Embassy where the CIA staff are forced to destroy
          documents
     ·    Similar to scene in 1979 when radical students stormed the US embassy
          in Islamabad, ransacked it and set buildings on fire


If the spy drama Homeland, which finishes its fourth season tonight, seems a
little too realistic, perhaps that's because it is rooted in a series of
incidents that actually happened.

The programme focuses on the so-called 'drone war' and the conflict between the
CIA and the Pakistani Inter-Services Intelligence agency (ISI), which has been
the source of much of the real tension between the two countries.

Here, security journalist Duncan Gardham, who specialises in terrorism and
espionage, looks at the comparisons between the popular television series and
real life events.

The Villain

'Haqqani' is the villain of the fourth series of Homeland, a member of the
Taliban who lives a secret life in the tribal areas of Pakistan, moving from
place to place, targeted by American drones, but covertly supported by the
Pakistani ISI.

In real life, Jalaluddin Haqqani is the leader of a major faction of the
Taliban, known as the Haqqani network, that straddles the border in Khost,
Afghanistan and North Waziristan in Pakistan.

Once funded by the Americans in the fight against Soviet Russia, they have
remained a Pakistani asset but regularly launch attacks against coalition troops
in Afghanistan.

Haqqani and his son Sirujuddin, have been the subject of a number of CIA drone
strikes, including one in September 2008 which hit a house in the village Dandi
Darpa Khail in North Waziristan, killing between 10 and 23 people. Haqqani had
already left the area.

Shoot out

CIA station chief Sandy Bachman is killed when the vehicle he is travelling in
with Carrie Mathieson and Peter Quinn, is surrounded by an angry mob and he is
dragged from the vehicle.

Mathieson and Quinn survive by shooting into the crowd.

In real life, CIA contractor Ray Davis shot two men on a motorbike on the
streets of Lahore in January 2011, thinking they were about to rob him at
gunpoint but this scene is more reminiscent of a harrowing incident in March
1988 during the Troubles in Northern Ireland when two plain clothed British Army
corporals, David Howes and Derek Wood, were dragged from their car and killed
after getting caught in an IRA funeral procession.

The incident was captured by television cameras, and two men were later jailed
for the killings.

Suicide vest

During a prisoner exchange to retrieve Saul Berenson, who had earlier escaped
and been recaptured, a child arrives at the scene in a suicide vest.

Carrie Mathieson is able to retrieve the situation and the exchange goes ahead.

Bowe Bergdahl, then a private in the US army, was abducted after wandering away
from his unit in Pakitika, Afghanistan in June 2009 and held captive for five
years by the Haqqani network.

At one stage he apparently escaped but was recaptured after five days, and
during his captivity he was forced to make three videos pleading for his
release.

A prisoner exchange for five men held by the Americans went ahead in May 2014,
filmed by the Haqqanis.

This scene is also reminiscent of a double cross at Camp Chapman in Khost,
Afghanistan in which an agent run by the Pakistani Taliban blew up Jennifer
Lynne Matthews, the female CIA station chief, and six members of her staff using
a suicide vest.

Abandoned building

Returning from the prisoner exchange the CIA convoy carrying Carrie Mathieson
and Saul Berenson is attacked with guns and rocket propelled grenades from a
half-finished building near a roundabout.

In September 2011 Haqqani fighters used an unfinished high-rise building in
Kabul to launch a 20-hour attack on the US embassy, killing 16 Afghans and
leading to the deaths of 11 assailants.

Over-running the US Embassy

The attack on the convoy is actually a diversion so that Haqqani and a band of
fighters can get into the US Embassy where the CIA staff are forced to destroy
documents and retire into a strong room from where they see other members of
staff executed.

In 1979, radical students stormed the US embassy in Islamabad, ransacked it and
set buildings on fire.

The CIA burned critical documents and staff survived by hiding in a reinforced
area, although Marine Security Guard Steve Crowley, Army Warrant Officer Bryan
Ellis, and two Pakistani members of staff were killed in the attack.

LOAD-DATE: December 21, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDM


                   Copyright 2014 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              84 of 143 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring Middle East - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                            December 22, 2014 Monday

Al-Qa'idah steps up "terror" attacks in Yemen

LENGTH: 697 words


Text of report in English by privately-owned Yemeni news website Yemen Fox on 20
December

[Report by Oren Adak: "AQAP Claims 149 Attacks in Yemen Since Late September"]

Since the seizure of the Yemeni capital of Sana'a by Huthi rebels in late
September, Al-Qa'idah in the Arabian Peninsula (AQAP) has stepped up its
terrorist attacks throughout the country, claiming credit for a total of 149
attacks in 14 provinces.

These attacks have targeted AQAP's traditional enemy, the Yemeni government and
military, and led to more frequent attacks on the Houthi rebels.

At the same time, AQAP has also managed to carry out several attacks against
American interests, including the US embassy in Sana'a and the US ambassador to
Yemen.

A few days after the Houthi sweep of Sana'a on 21 Sept, AQAP disseminated a
statement portraying the Houthis as Shi'i heretics threatening Sunni interests
in Yemen, and called on all Sunnis to take up arms against the rebels.

AQAP has played the role of the protector of Yemen's Sunnis and has waged a
relentless campaign against the Houthis, allegedly alongside some Sunni
tribesmen.

Although fighting between the Houthis and AQAP has spread throughout much of
northern and central Yemen, Baydah province has been a focal point of such
battles. Clashes around the provincial capital of Radaa broke out on 15 Oct,
when the Houthis attempted to advance on the city.

Since then, AQAP has claimed 47 attacks in Baydah, mostly in the city of Radaa
and its outskirts.

AQAP has also claimed a total of 27 attacks in Sana'a, 20 of which targeted
Houthi positions in the city. Most notably, AQAP carried out a suicide attack on
9 Oct at Tahrir Square in the capital against Houthi supporters who were
preparing for a demonstration, allegedly killing more than 50 Houthis. AQAP also
attacked state institutions in the province, shelling Sana'a airport with
mortars on 5 Nov in retaliation for US drone strikes in Yemen.

Even while AQAP maintains its campaign against the Houthi rebels, the group's
attacks against Yemeni government and military targets have continued, focused
mostly on the eastern and southern parts of the country. AQAP has claimed credit
for 21 attacks against the Yemeni military in Hadramout, primarily on the road
linking the cities of Tarim with al Qatn in Wadi Hadramout. Eleven more such
attacks were carried out in neighbouring Shabwa province, including a rocket
strike on the Yemen LNG company in Belhaf on 18 Dec.

While fighting both the Yemeni state and the ascendant Houthi rebels, AQAP has
also managed to carry out three attacks against US interests in Yemen. On 27
Sept, less than a week following the Houthi seizure of Sana'a, AQAP claimed to
have launched a "Lu-type" rocket at the US Embassy in Sana'a, allegedly wounding
some guards on the scene. Exactly two months later, on 27 Nov, AQAP claimed yet
another attack on the embassy, this time detonating two improvised explosive
devices (IEDs). A third IED attack, which targeted US Ambassador Matthew H.
Tueller as he left a meeting at the residence of Yemeni president Abd Rabbo
Mansour Hadi, failed when the explosives planted outside Hadi's residence were
allegedly discovered minutes before Tueller left the meeting.

American interests in Yemen were not the only international targets of AQAP's
attacks. On 3 Dec, AQAP claimed credit for a vehicle-borne explosive device
(VBIED) attack at the residence of the Iranian ambassador to Yemen in the Hadda
district of Sana'a. AQAP indicated that the attack came as a response to Iranian
support for the Houthis.

List of attacks by province since 21 Sept:

Abyan: 13

Amran: 2

Baydah: 47

al Dale': 1

Dhamar: 9

Hadramout: 21

Hodeidah: 2

Ibb: 10

Lahj: 1

Marib: 3

Sa'adah: 1

Sana'a: 27

Shabwa: 11

Taiz: 1

The Houthi rebel crisis in Yemen has breathed new life into Al-Qa'idah's Yemeni
branch, providing AQAP with a wide power vacuum in which to operate. The fact
that AQAP continues to challenge the Yemeni state, the Houthi rebels, and the US
in numerous provinces suggests that the group has been the primary beneficiary
of the Houthi rebellion that has rocked the country for nearly three months.

Source: Yemen Fox, Sanaa, in English 1710 gmt 20 Dec 14

LOAD-DATE: December 22, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2014 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              85 of 143 DOCUMENTS



                            i-Independent Print Ltd

                               December 22, 2014
                                 First Edition

Terror suspect shot dead after attack;
The News Matrix The day at a glance FRANCE

SECTION: FEATURES; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 45 words


Anti-terror police are investigating an attack at a police station where three
officers were slashed by an assailant with a knife before he was shot dead. The
attacker, identified as Bertrand Nzohabonayo, 20, of Burundian origin, struck in
Joué-lès-Tours, a suburb of Tours.

LOAD-DATE: December 21, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: III


                    Copyright 2014 Independent Print Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              86 of 143 DOCUMENTS



                               Independent.co.uk

                      December 22, 2014 Monday 6:38 PM GMT

Peshawar school attack: Pakistan 'to execute 500 terrorists' after lifting of
death sentence moratorium;
The Prime Minister announced the end of the moratorium after the Peshawar school
massacre that left 149 people, 133 of them children dead

BYLINE: Harry Davies

SECTION: ASIA

LENGTH: 298 words


Senior officials in Pakistan have confirmed that the government plans to execute
500 people convicted of terror offences over the coming weeks.

The order comes after Pakistan's Prime Minister announced an end to a six-year
moratorium on capital cases after the murder of 149 people, 133 of who were
children, at a school in Peshawar last Tuesday. The Pakistan Taliban has claimed
responsibility for the attack.

Nawaz Sharif's announcement, made last Friday, means that the 500 or so convicts
on death row now face being hanged. Six men convicted of terrorism offences have
been hanged in recent days since the ban was lifted following a clamour for the
reintroduction of the death penalty.

In the case of around 500 other convicts "their mercy petitions have been turned
down and their executions will take place in coming weeks", according to a
government official speaking to the AFP news agency.

READ MORE: Who are the Pakistani Taliban and what do they want?Children's
eyewitness accounts of school attackComment: When will Pakistanis stand up to
terrorists?

Five of the six executed so far were involved in the 2003 attempted
assassination of the then military ruler Pervez Musharraf. The other person was
part of an attack in 2009 on an army headquarters.

During the massacre in Peshawar, seven Taliban gunmen stormed a military run
school wearing explosives. The perpetrators were killed in the attack, although
phone transcripts indicate that the men were in touch with handlers.

Mr Sharif has also called for greater urgency in trials already going through
the court system, ordering his attorney-general's office "actively to pursue"
such cases. A spokesman said the Prime Minister had called that "appropriate
measures for early disposal of pending cases related to terrorism" be taken.

LOAD-DATE: December 22, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBI


           Copyright 2014 Independent Digital News and Media Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              87 of 143 DOCUMENTS



                               Independent.co.uk

                      December 22, 2014 Monday 1:25 PM GMT

The Isis reality TV show - Victims confront terrorists on controversial Iraqi TV
show;
'In the Grip of the Law' - in which terrorists recount their attacks before
facing down one of their victims - has been condemned by human rights groups

BYLINE: Zachary Davies Boren

SECTION: FRONTPAGE

LENGTH: 957 words


The confessions of convicted terrorists are being broadcast on an Iraqi reality
TV show in which they are also forced to face the relatives of victims.

"In the Grip of the Law", which is produced by the state-run Al Iraqiya channel
in cooperation with the Iraqi Ministry of Interior, has been launched as part of
a media effort to attack the Islamic extremist group Isis and garner public
support for the Iraqi forces that were humiliated by Isis this summer.

Every Friday the show's host, Ahmed Hassan, who has reportedly become a target
himself, quizzes convicted terrorists in shackles and bright yellow prison
jumpsuits.

The relatives of victims of terrorist attacks are then brought before the
prisoners, often either in a rage or on the verge of tears.

One of the men to feature on the programme is 21-year old Haider Ali Motar,
convicted one month ago for helping to carry out a string of Baghdad car
bombings on behalf of Isis.

The crew began filming at the scene of one of the attacks for which Motar was
convicted, with a sizeable military escort in tow. Soldiers shooed away
interested bystanders and drivers frustrated by the consequent traffic.

After being pulled from an armoured vehicle, a shackled Motar found himself
face-to-face with the seething relatives of the victims of the attack. "Give him
to me - I'll tear him to pieces," one of the relatives roared from behind a
barbed wire barrier.

A cameraman pinned a microphone on Motar's bright yellow prison jumpsuit as he
stood alongside a busy Baghdad highway looking bewildered by his surroundings.

"Say something," the cameraman said to him.

"What am I supposed to say?" a visibly panicked Motar asked.

"It's a mic check! Just count: 1,2,3,4..."

Host Hassan quizzed Motar, before bringing out one of the victims, a young man
in a wheelchair who lost his father in one of the attacks; the convict began
weeping, as the cameras rolled.

Iraq has seen near-daily car bombs and other attacks for more than a decade,
both before and after the withdrawal of U.S.-led troops at the end of 2011. But
the central message of the show, the filming of which began last year, is that
the security forces will bring perpetrators to justice.

The episodes often detail the trail of evidence that led security forces to make
the arrest. Police allow the camera crew to film the evidence - explosive belts,
bomb-making equipment or fingerprints and other DNA samples.

Hassan told The AP: "We wanted to produce a program that offers clear and
conclusive evidence, with the complete story, presented and shown to Iraqi
audiences.

"Through surveillance videos, we show how the accused parked the car, how he
blew it up, how he carries out an assassination.

"We show our audiences the pictures, along with hard evidence, to leave no
doubts that this person is a criminal and paying for his crimes."

All of the alleged terrorists are shown confessing to their crimes in one-on-one
interviews. Hassan said the episodes are only filmed after the men have
confessed to a judge, insisting it is "impossible" that any of them are
innocent.

"The court first takes a preliminary testimony and then they require a legal
confession in front of a judge," Hassan explained. "After obtaining the security
and legal permission, we are then allowed to film those terrorists."

Human rights groups have long expressed concern over the airing of confessions
by prisoners, many of whom have been held incommunicado in secret facilities.

"The justice system is so flawed and the rights of detainees, especially those
accused of terrorism (but not only) are so routinely violated that it is
virtually impossible to be confident that they would be able to speak freely,"
Donatella Rovera, of Amnesty International, told AP in an email.

"In recent months, which I have spent in Iraq, virtually every family I have met
who has a relative detained has complained that they do not have access to them,
and the same is true for lawyers."

In a September statement, Amnesty cited longstanding concerns about the Iraqi
justice system, "where many accused of terrorism have been convicted and
sentenced to long prison terms and even to death on the basis of 'confessions'
extracted under torture."

Such concerns are rarely if ever aired on Iraqi TV, where wall-to-wall
programming exalts the security forces. Singers embedded with the troops sing
nationalist songs during commercial breaks. In another popular program, called
"The Quick Response," a traveling correspondent interviews soldiers, aiming to
put a human face on the struggle against the extremists.

Read more:German journalist spends 10 days with Isis: 'They are much stronger
than we think'Kurdish fighters save Yazidis in SinjarBritish brothers fighting
Isis make death-pact

Iraqi forces backed by Shiite and Kurdish militias, as well as U.S.-led
coalition airstrikes, have clawed back some territory following the army's route
last summer, when commanders disappeared, calls for reinforcements went
unanswered and many soldiers stripped off their uniforms and fled. But around a
third of the country - including its second largest city, Mosul - remains under
the firm control of militants, and nearly every day brings new bombings in and
around the capital.

Timeline: The emergence of Isis

Back at the makeshift barricade set up for "In the Grip of the Law," security
officials insist they are nevertheless sending a message of deterrence.

"Many of these terrorists feel a lot of remorse when they see the victims," said
the senior intelligence officer overseeing the shoot, who declined to be named
since he often works undercover. "When people see that, it makes them think
twice about crossing the law."

Additional reporting by Associated Press

LOAD-DATE: December 22, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBI


           Copyright 2014 Independent Digital News and Media Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              88 of 143 DOCUMENTS



                                   MailOnline

                      December 22, 2014 Monday 7:57 PM GMT

'U.S. military shot down Mhl70 because they thought it had been hacked and was
about to be used in terror attack', claims former airline boss

BYLINE: SAM WEBB FOR MAILONLINE

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 413 words



     ·    Marc Dugain says U.S. Navy in Indian Ocean attacked the plane
     ·    He claims that islanders saw the plane fly close to a U.S. base
     ·    Also alleges that a spy told him to back away from his probe into Mhl0


A former airline boss and writer claims the U.S. downed Malaysia Airlines flight
Mhl0 because the military feared it had been taken over by hackers and was about
to be used in a 9/11-style attack.

Marc Dugain, the former chief executive of now-defunct Proteus Airlines, said
the jumbo jet was shot down near a U.S. military base on the remote island of
Diego Garcia in the Indian Ocean after it was hacked.

He told Paris Match that islanders in the Maldives near Diego Garcia told him
they saw the missing aircraft flying low.

Dugain spoke of a fisherman on a small island who spoke of a 'huge plane' in
Malaysie Airline's colours on March 8.

Scroll down for video

He also said islanders had found an empty fire extinguisher from the plane in
the water near Baarah island.

The Senegal-born Frenchman, who is now a successful novelist, also told a radio
station he was warned not to investigate Mhl0 by an intelligence source, who
spoke of 'risks' and counselled him to 'let time do its work'.

Last week grieving family members of Chinese passengers from a missing Malaysia
Airlines flight protested outside the foreign ministry in Beijing Friday
accusing the government of failing to provide them with regular updates on the
search for the aircraft.

About 30 people, many of them elderly, gathered at the gates of the ministry
with temperatures approaching freezing and were confronted by a line of police.

They demanded to speak to government officials in a bid to get more information
on the search for flight Mhl0. Police manhandled and pushed protesters that
attempted to enter the gate and warned passersby to leave the area immediately.

'My son is alive and I want to know what the government is doing to find him,'
said Liu Dianyun, the mother of one of the passengers.

Some drove for two hours to attend the demonstration, despite acknowledging that
their efforts were unlikely to produce results.

Chinese passengers account for about two-thirds of the 239 people who were
aboard the Boeing 777, which vanished on March 8 en route from Kuala Lumpur to
China's capital.

Dozens of their relatives were reportedly beaten and arrested earlier this year.

Australia has been spearheading the hunt for the plane, which is believed to
have crashed in the southern Indian Ocean off western Australia.

LOAD-DATE: December 22, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDM


                   Copyright 2014 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              89 of 143 DOCUMENTS



                                  mirror.co.uk

                      December 22, 2014 Monday 8:56 AM GMT

Flight Mhl70 was 'hacked and shot down by US Air Force' claims former airline
boss;
Mark Dugain believes the American military blasted the missing jetliner out of
the sky amid fears it had been hijacked remotely and could be used in a
9/11-style terror attack

BYLINE: By Chris Richards

SECTION: NEWS,WORLD NEWS

LENGTH: 362 words


Missing Flight Mhl0 was 'hacked and then shot down over the Indian Ocean by the
US Air Force,' it has been claimed.

The Malaysia Airlines plane was remotely hijacked by unknown persons before
being blasted out of the sky by the American military, fearing a terrorist
attack similar to 9/11, according to Mark Dugain.

The Frenchman, an author and the ex-head ofthe now-defunct Proteus Airlines,
believes the Boeing 777 was downed by US Air Force assets from the
British-controlled Indian Ocean island of Diego Garcia.

Mr Dugain said he hadtravelled to the Maldives and spoken to locals who claimed
tohave seen a "huge plane" flying overhead at low altitude in the direction of
Diego Garcia.

According to an article penned by Dugan in French weekly magazine Paris Match,
one fisherman told him: "I saw a huge plane fly over us at low altitude.

"Isaw red and blue stripes (the livery of Malaysia Airlines) on a white
background."

Dugain said the man's account wassupported by several other locals.

Mhl0: How it was lost

He also wrote how he had met the mayor of Baarah island, who showed him photos
of adevice seized by the Maldives military after it was found on a beach
twoweeks after the tragedy.

Dugain claimed the device was a fireextinguisher, citing two aviation experts
and a local militaryofficer, and pointed out that the extinguisher must have
been emptyto have floated.

This, Dugain claimed, was due to it beingautomatically triggered by a fire, even
as all passengers and crewmight have died from asphyxiation.

In a separate radio interview, Dugain  claimed that a British intelligence
officer had warned him ofthe "risks" in investigating Mhl0's disappearance,
suggesting instead that he "let time do its work".

Malaysia Airlines Flight Mhl0 disappeared on March 8 while en route from Kuala
Lumpur to Beijing with 239 passengers and crew on board.

The search for the vanished jet is focused on the Indian Ocean off the coast of
Australia.

Officials had hoped to conclude the mission by May 2015, however a technical
problem affecting equipment on board one of the search ships may mean that is no
longer achievable.

Mhl0 - The Story So Far

Do you believe Mhl0 was a conspiracy?

LOAD-DATE: December 22, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDMI


                      Copyright 2014 Trinity Mirror, Plc.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              90 of 143 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                      December 22, 2014 Monday 4:31 PM GMT

Pakistan to execute 500 Islamist terrorists after Taliban school attack;
Pakistan government announces plan to execute hundreds of terrorists after
Peshawar school attack left 133 children dead

BYLINE: By Taha Siddiqui in Islamabad and Dean Nelson in New Delhi

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 499 words


Pakistan announced on Monday that it planned to execute an estimated 500
Islamist terrorists in the coming days as part of a "decisive war" against the
Taliban in response to the massacre of 133 children at a school last week.

After the Peshawar school attack, Nawaz Sharif, the prime minister, ended the
six-year moratorium on the death penalty, reinstating it for terrorism-related
cases.

He has pledged an all-out war to rid the country of the Taliban and
al-Qaeda-linked groups responsible for a string of attacks on schools, churches
and members of the Shia Muslim minority.

The army's air and land offensive against Taliban bases in North Waziristan will
be expanded to include operations against to terrorists in villages and cities
throughout Pakistan.

"There will be a decisive war against terrorists now who were responsible for
attacking the Hazara town, Peshawar church and elsewhere", he said.

Earlier Nisar Ali Khan, his interior minister, confirmed that hundred of
convicted terrorists will face the gallows in the next few weeks.

"Around 500 prisoners convicted on terrorism-related charges will be executed in
the next two to three weeks. Interior ministry has cleared these prisoners for
execution and their mercy petitions have already been rejected by the
president", he said.

The decision to announce a "decisive war" emerged amid rare signs of military
cooperation between Islamabad and Kabul, with Afghan security forces killing 21
insurgents in a raid in Kunar province, where the Pakistan Taliban leader
Maulana Fazlullah - the man believed to be responsible for the Peshawar massacre
- is thought to be hiding.

Six have been hanged in total so far, one of them for 2009 attack on the
Pakistan army headquarters, in which nine soldiers and two civilians were
killed. Five of those executed were involved in the failed assassination plot
against the former dictator General Pervez Musharraf.

The government's decision to reinstate capital punishment has been widely
welcomed by a public that has finally tired of soft government responses to
terrorist advances, but it has been strongly criticised by human rights groups.

"Lifting the moratorium is a knee-jerk reaction. Our research shows that the
government is clueless on who is an actual terrorist on death row and who isn't.
Keeping that in mind, we're going to see some gross violations of rights", said
Sarah Belal, head of Justice Project Pakistan (JPP), a human rights organisation
that recently launched the report Terror on Death Row.

According to the report, 80 per cent of those on death row have not committed
acts of terror, but were wrongly convicted. "They have the wrong people and
terrorists roam free", Ms Belal added.

The Pakistani Taliban has also accused the Pakistani military of killing those
in custody. "They have killed over a 120 people who are in military's secret
prisons, and they are dumping their bodies," Mohammad Khurasani,
Tehrik-e-Taliban Pakistan spokesman claimed in a statement to The Telegraph.

LOAD-DATE: December 22, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTNS


                  Copyright 2014 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              91 of 143 DOCUMENTS



                                 thetimes.co.uk

                     December 22, 2014 Monday 12:11 AM GMT

France hit by two separate terror attacks

BYLINE: Charles Bremner, Paris

SECTION: EUROPE

LENGTH: 212 words


French anti-terrorist police stepped up their surveillance of home-grown
Islamists yesterday after a 20-year-old man attacked a police station and a
driver ploughed into pedestrians. Both shouted Allahu Akbar (God is great).

Bertrand Nzohabonayo, a Muslim convert born in Burundi, struck officers in the
Loire valley town of Joué-lès-Tours on Saturday with a knife. He cut the throat
of one and slashed two others before being shot dead by police.

Eleven people were injured when a man aged 40 drove a Renault Clio into a crowd
in Dijon, injuring 11 people, two of them seriously. It was not clear if the two
incidents were linked, and the driver was described by police sources as
mentally unstable.

Bernard Cazeneuve, the interior minister, nevertheless pledged new efforts to
track Islamists who have been inspired by internet propaganda.

Nzohabonayo had convictions for petty crime and had posted the black flag of
Islamic State (Isis) on Facebook.

About 300 French citizens are fighting with Isis in Syria and Iraq. In May last
year, a French Islamist stabbed a soldier in Paris. In March 2012, seven people
were shot dead in Toulouse by Mohamed Merah. In May this year, Mehdi Nemmouche,
29, a Frenchman of Algerian origin, shot dead four people at the Brussels Jewish
museum.

LOAD-DATE: December 22, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBTTO


                     Copyright 2014 News International Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                              92 of 143 DOCUMENTS



                            Belfast Telegraph Online

                     December 23, 2014 Tuesday 10:04 PM GMT

News Digest: Appeal for calm after terror attacks

SECTION: WORLD

LENGTH: 537 words


Prime Minister Manuel Valls has urged France to remain calm after a series of
terror attacks.

The government has denied any links between three attacks in as many days,
including two nearly identical rampages by drivers who ploughed into holiday
crowds, but announced plans to further raise security in public spaces.

He said the attacks were unrelated to terrorism. Lamenting "the ravages of
propaganda on fragile minds," he urged France to remain calm and avoid
overreacting to isolated incidents.

In the western city of Nantes on Monday, a van burst into a Christmas market,
injuring 10 people before the driver began stabbing himself. The night before,
in the eastern city of Dijon, a driver reportedly shouting "God is great" in
Arabic ran down several people, injuring 13 before coming to a stop.

Those incidents came after an attacker knifed three police on Saturday before he
was shot dead by one of the officers. The man's brother was arrested the same
day in Burundi, their homeland. French counter-terrorism investigators were
called in to the case.

"These three events have no link," French president Francois Hollande said.

150 Taliban fighters killed in clashes

At least 150 Taliban fighters have been killed by government forces in
Afghanistan during 12 days of fighting near the border with Pakistan, officials
said.

More 100 more were wounded in the fighting in Dangam district, according to
General Abdul Habib Sayedkhaili, the police chief in Kunar province.

Dangam is less than three miles from the porous border and Gen Sayedkhaili said
insurgents can easily cross back and forth to regroup and resupply.

He said 17 foreign fighters were among the dead.

The Taliban denied it had lost so many fighters. Gen Sayedkhaili said there were
five dead and 12 wounded among Afghan forces and civilians.

Taliban attacks have escalated since international forces withdrew from Kunar
four months ago. Gen Sayedkhaili said the Pakistani Taliban and Lashkar-i-Taiba
- responsible for the attack on Mumbai in 2008 in which more than 160 people
were killed - took part.

"That 17 foreign fighters that were killed during the battle proves that
foreigners are supporting local insurgents in the area," he said.

Archaeological treasures are damaged in civil war

Satellite imagery shows that at least 290 cultural heritage sites have been
damaged by Syria's civil war, a UN agency has said.

Syria is home to archaeological treasures that span thousands of years of
written history, from the Roman ruins in the desert oasis of Palmyra to the
towering Crusader castle known as the Crac des Chevaliers near the Mediterranean
coast.

The nation's capital, Damascus, is one of the oldest continually inhabited
cities in the world.

Russia in economic accord with ex-Soviet countries

Russia and four other ex-Soviet nations have set up an ambitious new alliance
intended to bolster their economic integration.

The Eurasian Economic Union, which includes Russia, Belarus, Kazakhstan, Armenia
and Kyrgyzstan, comes into existence on January 1.

In addition to free trade, it aims to co-ordinate financial systems and regulate
industrial and agricultural policies along with labour markets and
transportation networks.

LOAD-DATE: December 23, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBBELT


           Copyright 2014 Independent News & Media (Northern Ireland)
                              All Rights Reserved

                              93 of 143 DOCUMENTS



                         The Evening Standard (London)

                           December 23, 2014 Tuesday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

French downplay terror link after attacks

BYLINE: David Churchill

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 26

LENGTH: 245 words


THE French government today said that two rampaging drivers who injured 23
people in nearly identical attacks were apparently mentally ill and downplayed
links to terrorism.

Prime Minister Manuel Valls said there was "no link" between attacks in three
cities but added that he understood the public's "strong concerns" and urged
"vigilance". President Francois Hollande today called an emergency cabinet
meeting.

At least 10 people were injured last night when a man drove a van into a crowded
Christmas market in Nantes. The country is on high alert after calls from
Islamist militants to attack French citizens in retaliation for army strikes on
strongholds in the Middle East and Africa. In two previous incidents over the
weekend, assailants were reportedly heard shouting "Allahu Akbar" - "God is
great". According to officials in Nantes, the van driver stabbed himself several
times after the crash, which left four badly injured and one critical.

It came after a man on Sunday rammed a car into crowds in the eastern city of
Dijon, injuring 13. On Saturday, another man was shot after he stabbed and
wounded three officers at a police station in central France. Prime Minister
Manuel Valls today called for "cool-headedness", adding: "Never before have we
faced such a high danger of terrorism." The Dijon driver was said to have
received psychiatric care more than 150 times.

'Never before have we faced such a higher danger of terrorism' Prime Minister
Manuel Valls

LOAD-DATE: December 23, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: EST


                    Copyright 2014 Evening Standard Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              94 of 143 DOCUMENTS



                                getsurrey.co.uk

                     December 23, 2014 Tuesday 4:37 PM GMT

Woking pays respects to Pakistan terror attack victims;
The Woking community congregated in Jubilee Square on Monday (December 22) to
remember the recent school tragedy in Pakistan

BYLINE: By Rebecca Shepherd

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 599 words


Woking pays respects to Pakistan school terror attack

Hundreds of people gathered in Woking on Monday (December 22) to pay tribute to
the 141 staff and school children who were killed in one of Pakistan's deadliest
terror attacks.

Residents, reverends, and council dignitaries united to attend a candlelit vigil
where flowers were laid and prayers were said for the 132 children and nine
members of staff who were killed in the Army Public School, in Peshawar, on
December 16.

Tahir Aziz, who helped organise the service, said: "We are all here to condemn
this atrocious attack on innocent school children and the nine teaching staff
that were killed.

"There are a couple-hundred people here and it just shows how people are
standing together after this act of terrorism against the innocent staff and
school children who lost their lives.

"Even though it may not have happened in this country, we are all paying our
respects."

Just over a week ago, nine Taliban gunmen stormed the military-run school in the
north-western city, while around 500 children and teachers were believed to be
inside, with many students taking exams at the time.

Inside the school's walls children and teachers were massacred by the
Tehreek-e-Taliban - a Pakistani militant group trying to overthrow the
government - who fired bullets aimlessly at pupils and staff.

The attack left more than 100 wounded and 141 dead - making it the deadliest
incident inside Pakistan since October 2007.

Woking remembrance event for Pakistan terror attack

On Monday, members of the Asian Business Forum joined the hour-long event,
people from the Baha'i community attended, and Imam Hashmi from the Shah Jahan
Mosque, and Dr Syed Naqvi of the Al-Asr Mosque, said a prayer and reading.

Mr Aziz said: "Everybody was showing their sadness and support with the members
of the Muslim community as the people who are killing are using the Muslim name
wrongly.

"We do not support this and we are fully against these attacks. People who are
doing this don't have any religion."

Reverend Jonny Blair from St Paul's Church was in Peshawar for three years and
also conducted a reading at the vigil, and reverend Phil Simpson from Christ
Church paid his respects.

The leader of Woking Borough Council, John Kingsbury, Knaphill councillor Saj
Hussain and Councillor Tony Branagan and his wife Mary also attended the
service.

Speaking at the event, Cllr Branagan said: "It's very important that non-Muslims
members of the society show sympathy for the 141 school children and staff who
have been killed because these are victims of terrorism."

Sheerwater councillor Ilyas Raja also helped to organise the event to show his
solidarity, and make sure the 141 victims were honoured.

Cllr Raja said: "If a wife loses her husband she becomes a widow, if a husband
loses his wife he becomes a widower, if a child loses their parents they are
called orphans.

"But when parents lose their child, there is no word or description in the
English dictionary that can define this grief. It's such an awful loss.

"When this sort of thing happens anywhere in the world we always condemn it and
this is the teaching of Islam. If you kill one innocent person you kill all of
humanity."

Looking towards the future, Cllr Raja said that something has to be done to stop
the terrorists from doing this again. He said: "The people who are killing have
such powerful technology and they have a lot of money to carry out these
attacks.

"We are all urging the super powers to do something about this and to make sure
that this doesn't happen again, and stop them from killing the innocent people."

LOAD-DATE: December 24, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBSUR


                      Copyright 2014 Trinity Mirror, Plc.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              95 of 143 DOCUMENTS



                                  The Guardian

                     December 23, 2014 Tuesday 7:10 AM GMT

Tony Abbott warns terrorism chatter has increased and attack remains 'likely';
Prime minister says Australians should be on alert, but celebrate the festive
season as normal

BYLINE: Shalailah Medhora

SECTION: AUSTRALIA NEWS

LENGTH: 274 words


There has been an increased level of "terrorist chatter" in the wake of last
week's Sydney cafe siege and a terrorist attack remains likely, Tony Abbott
says.

"The terror threat remains high," Abbott told reporters on Tuesday afternoon.
People "with evil intentions" were willing and able to "do us harm", he said.

A high alert level means an attack is considered "likely".

Abbott reiterated that warning, but urged people to go about their lives as
normal during the festive season.

"[Be reassured] that security agencies will be working around the clock to keep
us as safe as possible," he said.

Agencies were "doing every thing they can to monitor and disrupt" threats to
national security.

Members of the national security committee of cabinet (NSC) met for the first
time since the new ministry was sworn-in on Tuesday morning.

Abbott briefed new members of the committee, including the new defence minister,
Kevin Andrews, and the new immigration minister, Peter Dutton, on the
"heightened level of terrorist chatter" following the siege by gunman Man Haron
Monis.

The prime minister refused to link the siege with Islam in the days following
the attack, but on Tuesday labelled the siege, which ended in the death of Monis
and two hostages, "the Martin Place brush with terrorism".

An inquiry is under way to investigate how Monis got hold of his weapon, and how
he fell off Asio watchlists.

"All of our agencies are asking themselves, how could this person have slipped
through the net?" Abbott said.

Monis carried out the attack while on bail for being an accessory to the violent
murder of his former wife, and numerous sexual assault allegations.

LOAD-DATE: December 23, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBGNS


  Copyright 2014 The Guardian, a division of Transcontinental Media Group Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              96 of 143 DOCUMENTS



                               Independent.co.uk

                     December 23, 2014 Tuesday 10:41 AM GMT

France 'terrorism': Three 'lone wolf' attacks in three days - so should the
country be worried?;
Latest attack saw a van driver ram into a Christmas market in Nantes

BYLINE: John Lichfield

SECTION: FRONTPAGE

LENGTH: 713 words


France was torn between fear and incomprehension today after three random knife
attacks on police and pedestrians in three days.

In the latest incident, a van driver rammed shoppers at a Christmas market in
Nantes on Monday night, injuring 17 people.

The driver, who stabbed himself in the chest after the attack, was identified as
a 37-year-old white Frenchman, with a history of petty crime. A similar attack
on pedestrians in Dijon 400 miles away on Sunday night was carried out by a
40-year-old man of Arab origin with a long history of psychological troubles.

Investigators believe that there was a "copycat" connection between the two
ramming incidents.

They have dismissed all links with a knife attack on a police station near Tours
in central France on Saturday evening. In that incident, a 20-year-old Frenchman
of African origin, a recent convert to Islam, was shot dead after slashing three
police officers with a foot-long knife.

In both the Dijon and the Tours incidents, the attacker is reported to have
shouted "Allahu Akbar" (God is great).

The assault on the police station is being treated as an isolated attack with
terrorist overtones, carried out by a disturbed individual. Sunday's Dijon van
ramming attack, in which 11 pedestrians were injured, has been declared by the
local prosecutor to be a "non-terrorist"  act by a "confused" man who has made
157 visits to psychiatric units in the last 13 years.

The Socialist-led government called for "calm" and "vigilance" yesterday and
insisted that the three incidents should be treated separately. The Prime
Minister Manuel Valls said such a "series of dramas" was disturbing but there
was no cause for "panic".

He had, himself, been accused of ratcheting up fears on Monday by saying that
"France has never been in such danger from terrorism".

The far-right political leader Marine Le Pen has accused the government and
media of deliberately "minimising" the first two incidents which she insisted
were Islamist "terrorist attacks".

Ms Le Pen was uncharacteristically silent about the third incident on Monday in
which a 37-year-old white man, with no known political or religious
affiliations, drove his van into a crowded Christmas market in Nantes. The man,
named only as Sebastien S, stabbed himself several times in the chest after the
attack. He was seriously ill in hospital today.

Police believe that this was a copycat act, possibly influenced by the constant
repetition of the Dijon ram attack on 24-hour news channels.

The French media has also been torn between hysteria and calm.

The newspaper Le Parisien carried a banner front-page headline today "Peur sur
Noel" (Fear at Christmas). The newspaper said that it was irrelevant whether the
attacks were a "low cost" terrorist campaign or a series of random acts by
psychologically disturbed individuals. Either way, the attacks were all the more
terrifying because they were so unpredictable and impossible for the authorities
to forestall.

The centre-right newspaper Le Figaro bundled both the Tours and Dijon attackers
together as the work of "fous de Dieu" (religious crazies) - despite the
insistence of the state prosecutor in Dijon, Marie-Christine Tarrare, that the
van attack on Sunday was not motivated by politics or religion.

Read more:Car driver mows down pedestrians in DijonMan shot dead by police in
jihadist attack in Tours

Ms Tarrare said that the attacker - identified only as Mohammed -told
investigators that he had shouted "Allahu akbar" only to "give himself courage".
She said that he had spoken "incoherently" of taking revenge for "Chechen and
Palestinian children" but had no links or sympathies with extremist islamist
groups. He had not been "self-radicalised" on the internet because he did not
even have an internet connection at home.

The man who attacked the suburban police station near Tours on Saturday is
proving more difficult for investigators to define. Bertrand Nzohabonayo, 20,
born in Burundi, converted to Islam a couple of years ago.

He is described by his parents and friends as a gentle, depressive, sporty man
who - unlike his radical brother - had no known interest in jihadist movements.
Investigators found, however, that he had posted the Islamic State flag on his
Facebook site two days before his attack.

LOAD-DATE: December 23, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBI


           Copyright 2014 Independent Digital News and Media Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              97 of 143 DOCUMENTS



                                   MailOnline

                     December 23, 2014 Tuesday 9:29 AM GMT

'There has been a heightened level of terrorist chatter after the Martin Place
siege': Tony Abbott warns a terrorist attack is 'likely'

BYLINE: LILLIAN RADULOVA FOR DAILY MAIL AUSTRALIA and AUSTRALIAN ASSOCIATED
PRESS

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 297 words



     ·    The national security committee of cabinet received intelligence from
          ASIO and the Australian Federal Police Commissioner on Tuesday
     ·    Mr Abbott stated the briefing 'indicated there has been a heightened
          level of terrorist chatter in the aftermath of the Martin Place siege'
     ·    He said a terror attack on Australia was 'likely' but didn't identify
          a possible target


Tony Abbott has announced that a terror attack on Australia is 'likely' after
revealing there had been a heightened level of 'terrorist chatter' in the
aftermath of the Sydney siege.

The Prime Minister said the national security committee of cabinet's meeting on
Tuesday received intelligence from ASIO and the Australian Federal Police
Commissioner of the increased 'chatter' amongst terrorist sympathisers, the ABC

 reports.

'The briefing from the security agencies today indicated there has been a
heightened level of terrorist chatter in the aftermath of the Martin Place
siege,' he said.

Scroll down for video

'That's why it's important that people remain alert and aware as well as
reassured that our police and security agencies are doing everything they
humanly can to keep us safe.'

He didn't identify a possible target.

The terror threat level hasn't been lifted, and remains at high.

'At this level an attack is likely,' Mr Abbott said.

'We don't know when and how an attack may come, but we do know there are people
with the intent and capability to carry out further attacks.'

Mr Abbott assured the public that police and security agencies would be highly
active and visible during the Christmas holiday period.

But general public should be aware of the 'reality of these times', he said.

'There are people out there with evil intentions and we will do everything we
humanly can to protect you from them,' Mr Abbott said.

LOAD-DATE: December 23, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDM


                   Copyright 2014 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              98 of 143 DOCUMENTS



                                   MailOnline

                     December 23, 2014 Tuesday 7:57 AM GMT

Is ISIS plotting a terrorist attack in MEMPHIS? FBI warns it has received a
'credible threat' that terror group plans to bomb bridge

BYLINE: ZOE SZATHMARY FOR MAILONLINE

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 317 words



     ·    Law enforcement have been warned of an ISIS bombing conspiracy by the
          FBI
     ·    A warning was issued by the agency to the Memphis Police Department
          and the Shelby County Sheriff's Office
     ·    The Memphis-Arkansas Bridge was reportedly the intended target
     ·    An agency spokesman has said 'there is no actionable intelligence
          regarding an attack on the bridge'


Law enforcement in the Memphis area have been warned of an ISIS bombing
conspiracy by the FBI, local media reported.

A warning was issued by the agency to the Memphis Police Department and the
Shelby County Sheriff's Office, among others, according to MyFoxMemphis.

The affiliate station, which obtained a copy of the warning, said the
Memphis-Arkansas Bridge was the intended target.

The warning stated that 'According to an anonymous complainant, as of December
2014, ISIS instructed an ISIS member, a presumed USPER [US person] in Memphis,
with a direct order to blow up the Memphis-Arkansas bridge on an unknown date,
activating ISIS terror cells in the United States.'

Scroll down for the video

The Memphis-Arkansas Bridge is in close vicinity to both the Frisco Bridge and
Harahan Bridge.

Federal agents on a Joint Terrorism Task Force are investigating, MyFoxMemphis
reported.

FBI spokesperson Joel Siskovic told the affiliate station 'Although we received
an anonymous threat, there is no actionable intelligence regarding an attack on
the bridge.

'We take every threat seriously and whenever we receive a threat like this we
take steps to inform all of our law enforcement partners.'

Memphis police officers are keeping guard in the vicinity of the
Memphis-Arkansas Bridge, a Memphis Police spokesperson told MyFoxMemphis.

The affiliate station also pointed out that there is round-the-clock
surveillance cameras on the bridge.

Almost 56,000 vehicles drive on the bridge between Tennessee and Arkansas each
day, MyFoxMemphis reported.

FOX13 News, WHBQ FOX 13

LOAD-DATE: December 23, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDM


                   Copyright 2014 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              99 of 143 DOCUMENTS


                                 Scottish Star

                           December 23, 2014 Tuesday
                                   Edition 1;
                                    Scotland

CARNAGE AT XMAS SHOPS;
Huge bang like terror attack then dustbin ; lorry knocked people down 'like
skittles'

BYLINE: ROD MILLS ; GREG CHRISTISON

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 4,5

LENGTH: 901 words


SIX Christmas shoppers were dead last night after an out-of-control bin lorry
ploughed into crowds in Glasgow.

Eyewitnesses said they feared the city had been targeted by terrorists as the
huge vehicle knocked people down "like skittles".

It is believed the driver of the Glasgow City Council refuse truck was taken ill
at the wheel outside the Gallery of Modern Art in Royal Exchange Square.

It mounted the kerb and hit several pedestrians - killing one woman outright -
before careering at "high speed" for more than 300 metres along the pavement,
crossing two busy junctions, crushing people on George Square as they tried to
flee.

The 20-tonne truck narrowly missed two young children, and a woman with a baby
in a buggy. It eventually came to a halt in a narrow entrance next to the
Millennium Hotel, its wheels still spinning, and the driver was taken to
hospital by ambulance.

Packed Witnesses said the driver appeared to suffer a heart attack or seizure as
he weaved through George Square, which was packed with shoppers and kids on
their Christmas holidays.

One woman claimed her daughter witnessed the horror and said she saw a another
woman and her baby in a pram hit by the lorry.

She said: "My daughter saw them both hit and said they were dead. She has given
a statement to the police.

"She said it was the most horrifying thing she has ever seen and is completely
traumatised."

Anjan Luthra, 23, from Paisley, who works in the nearby G1 building, said: "I
was in Greggs and heard a crashing noise which I thought was something falling
from the building site next door.

"When I went out on the street I saw this big lorry going along the pavement,
flattening everything in sight.

"It was sheer panic everywhere. "I saw body parts lying on the street and one
man with his leg up at his face.

"I couldn't believe what I was seeing; it was disgusting, I will never forget
it.

"There was blood everywhere.

"People were being treated on the street and other people were running to help."

Sarah Smith, 21, from Glasgow, was working in a tea kiosk in George Square when
she heard the crash.

At the scene she saw paramedics trying desperately to resuscitate a young
pregnant woman.

She said: "They were over her doing mouth-to-mouth. Trying to get her round. She
was just lying there. She had a clear bump so she was pregnant. It was awful.

"All the security guards and first aid people working in the square had run to
the crash to help. It was terrible. People were just crying. It didn't seem
real."

Findlay Mair, 23, said: "We heard a huge bang followed by lots of screaming. The
lorry went straight into them and scattered them like skittles. It was awful.

"The screaming just kept going on. Suddenly it was chaos. Some people were
running towards the scene, others were just standing still, in shock.

"I saw one girl who had been hit, lying on the ground. She got up, and blood was
pouring from her mouth. Then she went down again.

"She was young, of student age. She just screamed, and screamed, and then fell
down again. She had terrible injuries. There was Christmas shopping littered
everywhere, among the bodies and bits of the vehicle. And there was blood
everywhere.

"It was difficult to take in. One minute the square was a typical Christmas
scene, with people enjoying their Christmas shopping and the next moment it was
just carnage."

Student Lewis Irvine, 17, said: "I was out doing my Christmas shopping and was
walking across George Square when it happened.

"The lorry went swerving along the road and it went up on to the pavement and
into a load of people. It must have hit at least half a dozen people. Then it
went into the Millennium Hotel."

He added: "I could see the driver at the wheel. It looked like he was having a
fit or something."

Cinematographer Alan McLaughlin, 24, was just behind the bin lorry when the
incident happened.

He said: "I was going to visit my mum and was heading back to the station and
then this bin lorry just completely lost control and mounted the pavement.

"The next thing you could see was bodies go up in the air as the lorry crashed
into the Millennium Hotel.

"There was a lot of blood, so much blood. It was crazy."

Stand-up comedian Janey Godley, who witnessed the horror unfold, said: "There
are people on the ground getting CPR and there were bodies still on the road
when I approached.

"And the whole surrounding area of George Square and the streets leading into it
are absolutely hammered with the emergency services getting there.

"It's the busiest time of year and it's also going to be the saddest time of the
year for those families."

Bodies Anjan Luthra said staff from a nearby Pizza Express were "helping to
cover up bodies". "Pedestrians were doing mouth-to-mouth to numerous injured."

David Lyon, from Newcastle, who was in Queen Street shopping with his
girlfriend, said he managed to pull her into a doorway behind him moments before
the lorry tore past.

He said: "It was horrible - unreal. I was literally seconds away from being
crushed by the garbage lorry coming towards me. Somehow I got out of the way."

Eyewitness Melanie Greig said: "The lorry just lost control. It just went along
the pavement knocking people down like pinballs.

"There was a baby in a buggy - there were two little kids. It travelled for 150
or 200 yards."

Supt Stewart Carle said eight people had been seriously injured and warned that
the death toll could rise.

scotnews@dailystar.co.uk

LOAD-DATE: December 23, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: HORROR: The driver was taken to hospital¦ CASUALTIES: Ambulance crews
and police help the injured¦ HORRIFIC: The scene in George Square as the bin
wagon comes to rest after the disaster that claimed six lives

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DSTscot


                       Copyright 2014 Express Newspapers
                              All Rights Reserved

                              100 of 143 DOCUMENTS



                                 Yorkshire Post

                           December 23, 2014 Tuesday

Three attacks not terrorism, French government insists

LENGTH: 273  words


The French government has denied any links between three attacks in as many
days, including two nearly identical rampages by drivers who ploughed into
holiday crowds, but announced plans to further raise security in public spaces.

Prime minister Manuel Valls said the attacks were unrelated to terrorism.

Lamenting "the ravages of propaganda on fragile minds," he urged France to
remain calm and avoid overreacting to isolated incidents.

In the western city of Nantes on Monday night, a van burst into a Christmas
market, injuring 10 people before the driver began stabbing himself. The night
before, in the eastern city of Dijon, a driver reportedly shouting "God is
great" in Arabic ran down several people, injuring 13 before coming to a stop.

Those incidents came after an attacker knifed three police on Saturday before he
was shot dead by one of the officers. The man's brother was arrested the same
day in Burundi, their homeland. French counter-terrorism investigators were
called in to the  case.

"These three events have no link," French President Francois Hollande said.

The drivers in the attacks in Nantes and Dijon had long histories of mental
illness, officials said.

Mr Valls said there were no ties with terrorism in the attacks, but announced
that security would be increased in public spaces during the holidays.

In Nantes, bystanders ran toward the attacker as he was stabbing himself, said
Mohammed Bader Ghegate, one of the witnesses who ended up at the man's side. He
denied reports that the attacker said "God is great" in Arabic.

"I said that to myself: Allahu Akbar, help us so there is no bloodshed'," Mr
Ghegate said.

LOAD-DATE: December 23, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: NLYP


                       Copyright 2014 Johnston Press Plc
                              All Rights Reserved

                              101 of 143 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring South Asia - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                          December 24, 2014 Wednesday

Pakistan Army refutes reports of 11 terrorists involved in Peshawar attack

LENGTH: 91 words


Text of report by official Pakistani news agency Associated Press of Pakistan
(APP)

Rawalpindi, 23 Dec: The Director General Inter Services Public Relations (ISPR)
on Tuesday [23 December] refuted the involvement of 11 terrorists in the
Peshawar school attack and termed the rumour baseless.

The DG ISPR, in a tweet message, said that seven terrorists, who had carried out
the barbaric act on the school, were killed and their dead bodies were in the
custody.

Source: Associated Press of Pakistan news agency, Islamabad, in English 1805gmt
23 Dec 14

LOAD-DATE: December 24, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2014 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              102 of 143 DOCUMENTS


                            BBC Monitoring Kiev Unit
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                          December 24, 2014 Wednesday

Ukrainian law enforcers probe Odessa railway blast as terrorist attack

LENGTH: 230 words


Text of report by Russian state-owned TASS news agency (formerly ITAR-TASS)

Odessa, 24 December: The explosion at the station Zastava-1 on the Odessa
railway has been recognized as a terrorist attack, a representative of the
Odessa directorate of the Security Service of Ukraine [SBU], Anna Shevchuk, has
said.

The explosion occurred on the Odessa railway today when the freight train was
moving. No casualties were reported.

"The criminal act has been recognized as a terrorist attack under the criteria
of Part 1 Article 258 of the Criminal Code of Ukraine," she said.

Shevchuk said the joint investigative and operational group, which includes the
officers of the SBU and Interior Ministry regional directorates, is conducting
the investigation.

"The explosion occurred just under the train when the train was moving at the
entrance to Odessa in the area of Zastava-1. No casualties were reported. Two
concrete sleepers were damaged and a meter-deep hole appeared," the transport
police representatives, working at scene of the accident, reported.

The explosion occurred when the freight train with coal was moving.

The workers are currently repairing the railroad.

On Tuesday [23 December], a railway bridge over the river Kalchyk in Mariupol
[Donetsk Region] was blown up, which resulted in disruptions of the train
service.

Source: TASS news agency, Moscow, in Russian 1337 gmt 24 Dec 14

LOAD-DATE: December 24, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2014 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              103 of 143 DOCUMENTS



                            Belfast Telegraph Online

                    December 24, 2014 Wednesday 2:11 PM GMT

Vehicle terror attack fears raised

SECTION: UK

LENGTH: 329 words


Fears have been raised that Islamist extremists could launch opportunist attacks
in crowded spaces over Christmas following three incidents in France in the past
four days.

A van burst into a Christmas market in the western city of Nantes on Monday
night, injuring 10 people before the driver reportedly began stabbing himself.

On Sunday night, in the eastern city of Dijon, a driver reportedly shouting "God
is great" in Arabic ran down several people, injuring 13 before coming to a
stop.

Those incidents came after an attacker knifed three police in Tours on Saturday
before he was shot dead by one of the officers. The French government has denied
any links between the attacks but announced plans to further raise security in
public spaces, including the deployment of around 300 soldiers.

British security services have been in close contact with the French, according
to sources quoted in The Times.

A senior Whitehall source told the newspaper the police focus, until the
incidents in France, had been on terrorists opening fire with weapons in public
space but now vehicle-based attacks had moved to the top of the agenda.

The Joint Terrorism Analysis Centre raised the threat level in August against a
backdrop of increasing concerns over hundreds of aspiring British jihadis
travelling to Iraq and Syria to learn terrorist ''tradecraft''.

Fears of a terrorist attack on Britain's streets have heightened in the wake of
the rise of Islamic State (IS), the extremist group that has taken over large
swathes of Iraq and Syria and attracted thousands of foreign jihadists to its
cause, including more than 500 Britons.

IS spokesman Abu Mohammad al-Adnani recently urged supporters to use all means,
including their own vehicles, to try to kill westerners. A new Counter-terrorism
and Security Bill, containing a range of powers including new orders that can
block suspected British fighters from returning to the UK, was introduced to
Parliament last month.

LOAD-DATE: December 24, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBBELT


           Copyright 2014 Independent News & Media (Northern Ireland)
                              All Rights Reserved

                              104 of 143 DOCUMENTS



                               Belfast Telegraph

                          December 24, 2014 Wednesday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

Appeal for calm after terror attacks

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 24

LENGTH: 190 words


FRANCE: Prime Minister Manuel Valls has urged the country to remain calm after a
series of terror attacks.

The government has denied any links between three attacks in as many days,
including two nearly identical rampages by drivers who ploughed into holiday
crowds, but announced plans to further raise security in public spaces.

He said the attacks were unrelated to terrorism. Lamenting "the ravages of
propaganda on fragile minds," he urged France to remain calm and avoid
overreacting to isolated incidents. In the western city of Nantes on Monday, a
van burst into a Christmas market, injuring 10 people before the driver began
stabbing himself. The night before, in the eastern city of Dijon, a driver
reportedly shouting "God is great" in Arabic ran down several people, injuring
13 before coming to a stop.

Those incidents came after an attacker knifed three police on Saturday before he
was shot dead by one of the officers. The man's brother was arrested the same
day in Burundi, their homeland. French counter-terrorism investigators were
called into the case.

"These three events have no link," French president Francois Hollande said.

LOAD-DATE: December 24, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: BTT


                Copyright 2014 Belfast Telegraph Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              105 of 143 DOCUMENTS


                          Bradford Telegraph and Argus

                          December 24, 2014 Wednesday

Help support the victims of terror attack

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 90 words


FUND-RAISING will start in the New Year in Keighley to support victims of the
Taliban attack on a school in Pakistan.

Bradford councillor Khadim Hussain hopes to bring businesses and residents
together to raise a "sizeable amount" for survivors and families affected by the
atrocity.

Cllr Hussain (pictured), a former Lord Mayor of Bradford, hoped Keighley's
response would build on the united front condemning the incident.

Cllr Hussain (pictured) said: "I may get in touch with the Consul General of
Pakistan to see where there is the most need."

LOAD-DATE: December 24, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2014 NewsQuest Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              106 of 143 DOCUMENTS



                                 Express Online

                    December 24, 2014 Wednesday 12:00 AM GMT

Attacks put France on Islamist terror alert

BYLINE: Natalie Chalk

LENGTH: 412 words


FRENCH forces stepped up security for Christmas yesterday after three separate
acts of violence in three days left around 30 wounded and reignited fears of
attacks by islamist radicals.

REUTERS

French police investigators working near the van

Late on Monday, a man rammed a van into a crowded Christmas market in Nantes,
west France, wounding 10 shoppers including two seriously, before stabbing
himself. He survived and is being questioned by police.

The previous day a man shouting "allahu akbar" injured 13 in a similar attack in
Dijon in the east.

On Saturday, an attacker, also yelling allahu akbar, was shot dead after
stabbing three police officers in Tours in central France.

"What we are seeing with events in Dijon and Nantes is that they are creating
copycat reactions," said Prime Minister Manuel Valls after ordering the
deployment of 200 to 300 extra soldiers for patrols in zones such as Paris's
Champs-Elysees and main shopping districts.

REUTERS

Bernard Cazeneuve speaking to the media following the incident

Some 780 soldiers have been deployed to security patrols.

The Dijon attacker had been hospitalised for mental illness 157 times since
2001, said prosecutor Marie-Christine Tarrare.

Similarly, the attack at the nantes Christmas market "seems to be that of an
unbalanced mind", said interior Minister Bernard Cazeneuve.

France is on high alert after calls earlier this year from militants to attack
its citizens and interests after French military strikes on islamist strongholds
in the Middle East and Africa.

A terrorist investigation into Saturday's attack began after police found a
"religious testament" written by the suspect.

Authorities are not treating the other two incidents as terrorism, saying those
attackers both had mental health problems.

Nevertheless, Mr Valls said on Monday that France had "never before faced such a
high threat linked to terrorism".

Mr Cazeneuve said this week there had been 118 arrests in the crackdown on
French nationals who fight alongside jihadists in iraq and syria and then
return.

The Far-Right National Front has accused the socialist government of playing
down the islamist threat and has called for deportations of radical preachers
and tighter border controls.

Police in Cannes said a man with two pump-action shotguns and a knife had been
arrested near a market yesterday.

brightcove.createExperiences; Related articles 'Unbalanced' man screams 'Allahu
Akbar' as he drives into crowds of people

LOAD-DATE: December 24, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDE


              Copyright 2014 Northern and Shell Media Publications
                              All Rights Reserved

                              107 of 143 DOCUMENTS



                                  The Guardian

                    December 24, 2014 Wednesday 5:27 AM GMT

Man arrested in counter-terrorism operation 'breached control order';
Two men refused bail after one is charged with possessing documents designed to
facilitate a terrorist attack, and one with breaching a control order

BYLINE: Paul Farrell

SECTION: AUSTRALIA NEWS

LENGTH: 626 words


One of two men arrested in Tuesday's counter-terrorism raids breached the terms
of a control order by calling his mother and an associate, a Sydney court has
heard.

A second man, Sulayman Khalid, 20, was refused bail in Parramatta local court on
Wednesday after being charged with possession of documents designed to
facilitate a terrorist attack.

There is no suggestion that the two cases are directly linked.

The magistrate in the same court rejected the application for bail of the first
man, who cannot be identified, saying there was an "unacceptable risk" the man
would commit further offences if he were released.

Counsel for the director of public prosecutions told the court the breaches of
the order occurred when the man made two unauthorised phone calls - one from a
mobile phone and the other from a pay phone.

The conditions of the order specified that he was prohibited from using a public
phone except in case of emergency.

"The second was a mobile phone which was not a mobile phone he was approved to
use," he said.

But the man's lawyer, Arjun Chhabra, told the court the breach was "technical"
and bail should be granted.

"There must be a factual, evidentiary basis that this was done to evade, given
that the court has before us the contents of those phone calls... the
alternative and reasonable inference the court must draw is that there was
nothing nefarious discussed," he said.

He told the court that one of the alleged breaches related to one phone call
made to an associate about fitness training.

The second alleged breach occurred when the man was phoning his mother, and that
the restrictions imposed by the control order were "incredibly restrictive,
proscriptive and prohibitive".

"There is no suggestion that anything nefarious was discussed during those phone
calls. Indeed in one of those phone calls the contents went to exercise ...
getting together to exercise, nothing more," Chhabra said.

A further hearing for the matter will be set down in February.

The AFP assistant commissioner personally sought control orders against two men
last Thursday.

The two men were served with notices on Friday putting the orders in place. The
court notices told the men to "seek legal advice about this application" and
gives them the opportunity to file a response in anticipation for an upcoming
hearing to determine whether the control orders will be confirmed.

Khalid - whose case is not related to the that of the man who breached the
control order - was arrested at his home in Regent's Park on Tuesday afternoon.
He did not apply for bail on Wednesday and it was formally refused. He was
remanded in custody and is due to appear in court again in February.

The Australian Federal Police said the arrests were made by members of the joint
counter-terrorism team with NSW police as part of Operation Appleby.

The AFP said it was monitoring a group of about 15-20 people.

AFP deputy commissioner Michael Phelan told reporters on Wednesday morning the
group had been having "conversations and activity" for a year.

In September more than 800 police were involved in raids that led to 15 people
being detained and one charged.

Phelan said a "significant amount" of material had been seized in the September
raids that gave rise to concern for law enforcement and intelligence agencies,
and resulted in Wednesday's charges.

He said police believed the group was involved in supporting terrorism "through
funding or otherwise", and had been involved in facilitiating the travel of
people to foreign states to engage in fighting.

On Tuesday the prime minister, Tony Abbott, warned that intelligence agencies
had picked up increased terrorism "chatter" and reiterated that the security
threat level remained high, meaning a terrorist attack was "likely".

LOAD-DATE: December 24, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBGNS


  Copyright 2014 The Guardian, a division of Transcontinental Media Group Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              108 of 143 DOCUMENTS



                               Independent.co.uk

                    December 24, 2014 Wednesday 8:27 AM GMT

Australia anti-terror police charge man with being in possession of documents
'designed to facilitate a terrorist attack';
Tony Abbott said security officials had intercepted heightened level of
'terrorist chatter' in days after Sydney siege

BYLINE: Heather Saul

SECTION: FRONTPAGE

LENGTH: 373 words


Anti-terror police in Sydney have arrested two men, charging one of the men with
being in possession of documents 'designed to facilitate a terrorist attack'.

The Australian Prime Minister Tony Abbott said security officials had
intercepted a heightened level of "terrorist chatter" in the eight days after
the Sydney siege, but there were no specific threats of attacks.

One man, 20, was charged on Tuesday with possession of documents designed to
facilitate a terrorist attack. A second 21-year-old was charged with breaching a
control order, police said.

The documents had mentioned potential government targets but were not directed
at the Prime Minister, Australian Federal Police Deputy Commissioner Michael
Phelan told a media conference in Sydney.

Australia is on high alert for attacks by sympathisers of the radical group Isis
and from home-grown militants returning from fighting in the Middle East.

Police said they had now arrested and charged 11 people with terrorism-related
offences since launching massive raids in Sydney and Brisbane in September, soon
after raising the terror threat to "high" for the first time.

Sydney siege: Australia mourns with sea of flowers at site of Martin Place
terror attack

The most recent arrests came after the monitoring of a group of 15 to 20 people
who police believed may have shared an ideology similar to that of Isis.

"There is nothing that indicates at all that (there were) any specific targets
or time frame in relation to this particular activity at all," Mr Phelan added.

Man Haron Monis, a self-styled sheikh who was facing numerous charges for
violent crimes, held 17 hostages at gunpoint at the Lindt Chocolate Cafe in
Martin Place, a central Sydney shopping and office precinct for 16 hours on
Monday morning last week.

Two hostages, cafe manager Tori Johnson and lawyer Katrina Dawson, were killed
along with Monis when police stormed the cafe.

Monis, who came to Australia as a refugee from Iran, complained of being
tortured in prison for his political beliefs and said he was fighting for Islam
and for peace.

An official investigation into the final moments of the siege and the deaths of
all three is underway.

Additional reporting by agencies

LOAD-DATE: December 24, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBI


           Copyright 2014 Independent Digital News and Media Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              109 of 143 DOCUMENTS



                                   MailOnline

                    December 24, 2014 Wednesday 7:13 AM GMT

Police seize rifle and shotguns in terrorism raids and charge man who wore ISIS
flag on national TV over 'plotting terror attack on government target and
guerrilla warfare in the Blue Mountains'

BYLINE: LUCY THACKRAY, DANIEL PIOTROWSKI and SALLY LEE FOR DAILY MAIL AUSTRALIA

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 629 words



     ·    Sulayman Khalid, 20, charged with possessing documents listing targets
          for a terrorist attack
     ·    It is also alleged he planned to carry out guerrilla warfare in Blue
          Mountains
     ·    Khalid stormed off the set of an SBS talk show earlier this year after
          being grilled for his support of the Islamic State terror group
     ·    Another 21-year-old man was charged with breaching a Control Order
     ·    Dramatic events follow warning of 'heightened terror chatter' from
          Prime Minister Tony Abbott


A man who stormed off the set of a television program while wearing an Islamic
State symbol is behind bars after he was charged with possessing documents
listing potential targets for a terrorist attack.

Sulayman Khalid, 20, from Regents Park in Sydney's west, was formally refused
bail in Parramatta Local Court today after he and a 21-year-old Marsfield man
were arrested in counter-terrorism raids overnight.

The Marsfield man, who cannot be named, was charged with breaching a Control
Order. He refused bail after a magistrate deemed him an 'unacceptable risk to
the community'.

It is also alleged he had plans to carry out guerrilla warfare in the Blue
Mountains, the  Sydney Morning Herald reports.

The arrests followed raids around 1.30pm last Thursday where police seized a
large number of documents outlining possible Federal and State government
targets, a rifle and two shotguns.

Scroll down for video

Deputy NSW Police Commissioner Catherine Burn said the men were arrested as part
of an ongoing investigation into an apparent ring of 15 to 20 people.

She said 11 people have been charged so far under the counter-terrorism
operation, known by the codename Appleby.

The same investigation conducted the largest raids in the nation's history on
September 18, which involved more than 800 NSW and Federal Police.

AFP Deputy Commissioner Michael Phelan told reporters the men shared the
'ideology' of the Islamic State terror group.

'It is a group of people here in Sydney who we've been actively monitoring for a
long time,' he said. 'Certainly their ideology is linked to [Islamic State].'

Adam Houda, Khalid's lawyer, told Daily Mail Australia his client has been
charged with a very serious offence.

'But I want to remind you that the authorities have got it wrong in the past
many times,' Mr Houda said.

'I ask that the court process be respected and for this matter to be determined
on the evidence and not by politicians and the media.'

Under the name Abu Bakr, Khalid appeared on the SBS program Insight earlier this
year for a forum about the Federal government's cancellation of terror suspect's
passports. The part-time labourer had his passport suspended last December.

He stormed off the set after facing a grilling over his support for the Islamic
State terror group.

In a separate hearing, prosecutors alleged today that the Marsfield man breached
the conditions of his control order by using a public telephone and a mobile
phone which did not belong to him in the space of an hour on Monday evening.

His lawyer, Arjun Chhabra, told the court the mobile belonged to his mother and
said his age should be taken into consideration.

Today's arrests follow an extraordinary pre-Christmas message from Prime
Minister Tony Abbott, where he warned a terrorist attack remains 'likely'.

'The briefing from the security agencies today indicated there has been a
heightened level of terrorist chatter in the aftermath of the Martin Place
siege,' he said.

He said security agencies would be 'highly visible' as the nation moves into the
festive season.

On December 15, crazed gunman Man Haron Monis held 18 people hostage for more
than 16 hours at the Martin Place cafe.

Barrister Katrina Dawson, hospitality worker Tori Johnson and Monis were killed
on Tuesday morning as the siege came to a bloody end.

LOAD-DATE: December 24, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDM


                   Copyright 2014 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              110 of 143 DOCUMENTS



                                   MailOnline

                    December 24, 2014 Wednesday 3:01 AM GMT

Police seize rifle and shotguns in terrorism raids and charge man who wore ISIS
flag on national TV over 'plotting terror attack on government target'

BYLINE: DANIEL PIOTROWSKI and LUCY THACKRAY FOR DAILY MAIL AUSTRALIA

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 596 words



     ·    Sulayman Khalid, 20, charged with possessing documents listing targets
          for a terrorist attack
     ·    Khalid stormed off the set of an SBS talk show earlier this year after
          being grilled for his support of the Islamic State terror group
     ·    Another 21-year-old man was charged with breaching a Control Order
     ·    Dramatic events follow warning of 'heightened terror chatter' from
          Prime Minister Tony Abbott


A man who stormed off the set of a television program while wearing an Islamic
State symbol is behind bars after he was charged with possessing documents
listing potential targets for a terrorist attack.

Sulayman Khalid, 20, from Regents Park in Sydney's west, was formally refused
bail in Parramatta Local Court today after he and a 21-year-old Marsfield man
were arrested in counter-terrorism raids overnight.

The Marsfield man, who cannot be named, was charged with breaching a Control
Order. He refused bail after a magistrate deemed him an 'unacceptable risk to
the community'.

The arrests followed raids around 1:30pm last Thursday where police seized a
large number of documents outlining possible Federal and State government
targets, a rifle and two shotguns.

Scroll down for video

Deputy NSW Police Commissioner Catherine Burn said the men were arrested as part
of an ongoing investigation into an apparent ring of 15 to 20 people.

She said 11 people have been charged so far under the counter-terrorism
operation, known by the codename Appleby.

The same investigation conducted the largest raids in the nation's history on
September 18, which involved more than 800 NSW and Federal Police.

AFP Deputy Commissioner Michael Phelan told reporters the men shared the
'ideology' of the Islamic State terror group.

'It is a group of people here in Sydney who we've been actively monitoring for a
long time,' he said. 'Certainly their ideology is linked to [Islamic State].'

Adam Houda, Khalid's lawyer, told Daily Mail Australia his client has been
charged with a very serious offence.

'But I want to remind you that the authorities have got it wrong in the past
many times,' Mr Houda said.

'I ask that the court process be respected and for this matter to be determined
on the evidence and not by politicians and the media.'

Under the name Abu Bakr, Khalid appeared on the SBS program Insight earlier this
year for a forum about the Federal government's cancellation of terror suspect's
passports. The part-time labourer had his passport suspended last December.

He stormed off the set after facing a grilling over his support for the Islamic
State terror group.

In a separate hearing, prosecutors alleged today that the Marsfield man breached
the conditions of his control order by using a public telephone and a mobile
phone which did not belong to him in the space of an hour on Monday evening.

His lawyer, Arjun Chhabra, told the court the mobile belonged to his mother and
said his age should be taken into consideration.

Today's arrests follow an extraordinary pre-Christmas message from Prime
Minister Tony Abbott, where he warned a terrorist attack remains 'likely'.

'The briefing from the security agencies today indicated there has been a
heightened level of terrorist chatter in the aftermath of the Martin Place
siege,' he said.

He said security agencies would be 'highly visible' as the nation moves into the
festive season.

On December 15, crazed gunman Man Haron Monis held 18 people hostage for more
than 16 hours at the Martin Place cafe.

Barrister Katrina Dawson, hospitality worker Tori Johnson and Monis were killed
on Tuesday morning as the siege came to a bloody end.

LOAD-DATE: December 24, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDM


                   Copyright 2014 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              111 of 143 DOCUMENTS


                                Scottish Express

                          December 24, 2014 Wednesday
                                   Edition 1;
                                    Scotland

Attacks put France on Islamist terror alert

BYLINE: Natalie Chalk

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 19

LENGTH: 377 words


FRENCH forces stepped up security for Christmas yesterday after three separate
acts of violence in three days left around 30 wounded and reignited fears of
attacks by Islamist radicals.

Late on Monday, a man rammed a van into a crowded Christmas market in Nantes,
west France, wounding 10 shoppers including two seriously, before stabbing
himself. He survived and is being questioned by police.

The previous day a man shouting "Allahu Akbar" ("God is greatest" in Arabic)
injured 13 in a similar attack in Dijon in the east. On Saturday, an attacker,
also yelling Allahu Akbar, was shot dead after stabbing three police officers in
Tours in central France.

Security "What we are seeing with events in Dijon and Nantes is that they are
creating copycat reactions," said Prime Minister Manuel Valls after ordering the
deployment of 200 to 300 extra soldiers for patrols in zones such as Paris's
Champs-Elysees and main shopping districts.

Some 780 soldiers have been deployed to security patrols.

The Dijon attacker had been hospitalised for mental illness 157 times since
2001, said prosecutor Marie-Christine Tarrare. Similarly, the attack at the
Nantes Christmas market "seems to be that of an unbalanced mind", said Interior
Minister Bernard Cazeneuve.

France is on high alert after calls earlier this year from militants to attack
its citizens and interests after French military strikes on Islamist strongholds
in the Middle East and Africa.

A terrorist investigation into Saturday's attack began after police found a
"religious testament" written by the suspect. Authorities are not treating the
other two incidents as terrorism, saying those attackers both had mental health
problems.

Nevertheless, Mr Valls said on Monday that France had "never before faced such a
high threat linked to terrorism".

Mr Cazeneuve said this week there had been 118 arrests in the crackdown on
French nationals who fight alongside jihadists in Iraq and Syria and then
return.

The far-Right National Front has accused the Socialist government of playing
down the Islamist threat and has called for deportations of radical preachers
and tighter border controls.

Police in Cannes said a man with two pump-action shotguns and a knife had been
arrested near a market yesterday.

OPINION: PAGE 14

LOAD-DATE: December 24, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: The van that ploughed into a Christmas market in Nantes, injuring 10
people, is examined by police

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DXPscot


                       Copyright 2014 Express Newspapers
                              All Rights Reserved

                              112 of 143 DOCUMENTS



                                 thetimes.co.uk

                    December 24, 2014 Wednesday 1:33 AM GMT

France orders troops on streets to halt lone-wolf terror attacks

BYLINE: Charles Bremner, Paris

SECTION: EUROPE

LENGTH: 874 words


Hundreds of troops were ordered on to the streets of French cities last night
and the country was placed on terror alert for Christmas after a spate of
lone-wolf attacks that have killed one person and injured dozens more.

Manuel Valls, the prime minister, urged the public to remain calm and said he
had deployed up to 300 more soldiers to add to the 780 already on public duty,
as fears grew of further copycat attacks.

"Never have we faced such danger in matters of terrorism. We have over 1,000
individuals who are involved in jihad in Syria and Iraq. The string of tragedies
that we have been faced with is worrying for all of us," he said.

At least two of the attacks were the work of Islamic extremists.

Islamic State (Isis), the jihadist army spreading terror in Syria and Iraq, has
called on its followers abroad to kill civilians. "Run him over with your car,"
urged one Isis video. There have been three attacks on consecutive days on
French citizens, two of them involving men who drove vehicles at pedestrians.

President Hollande, on a visit to French islands off the coast of Canada, said
yesterday that an unnamed 25-year-old man who was one of about 20 pedestrians
run down at a Christmas market in Nantes on Monday had died from his injuries.
Nine people were injured. "We must not panic, lump things together, give in to
fear," he said.

Tension was raised further yesterday when a 43-year-old man armed with two
pump-action shotguns and a large knife was arrested by police in Cannes. Later
reports, however, suggested the arrest was linked to a road-rage incident.

The government has been criticised for its response to the crisis, which began
with a knife attack on police officers in Tours on Saturday. Bertrand
Nzohabonayo, 20, a Muslim convert from Burundi, was shot dead after he wounded
three officers.

He claimed allegiance to Isis and left a testament citing the organisation,
police said. He was not on a domestic intelligence watch list, but his brother,
Brice, was known for his radical views and has been arrested in Burundi.

On Sunday, a 40-year-old man named only as Nacer B, of Algerian origin and with
a history of mental illness, mowed down 14 pedestrians in Dijon with a Renault
Clio. He was charged yesterday with attempted murder.

His mother said he had taken an interest in religion and started wearing a
djellaba, the long robe common in Muslim countries, barely a week ago.

The attacker who ploughed into shoppers at the market in Nantes was last night
named as Sébastien Sarron, 37, a reclusive alcoholic who recently lost his job
as a gardener. He had no obvious connection to Islam, although he appeared to be
imitating the previous day's assault. He stabbed himself repeatedly with a knife
after the attack and was not yet well enough to be questioned, prosecutors said.

"What we are seeing with events in Dijon and Nantes is that they are creating
copycat reactions," Mr Valls said after a special cabinet meeting. "The best
response is to continue to live peacefully, with the necessary vigilance, of
course. The French are a mature people. We cannot offer the victory of fear to
those who want to weaken our democracy."

However, the centre-right opposition accused Mr Valls of failing to take firm
action. "He reduces the matter of the fight against terrorism to a struggle
against racism and discrimination," said a spokesman for the Union for a Popular
Movement, which is led by Nicolas Sarkozy.

The far-right National Front poured scorn on suggestions that the vehicle
rampages were not religiously or politically motivated. "This is obviously
terrorism," said Florian Philippot, the party's deputy leader. "I wish they
would stop playing politics and ideology, telling us that there are
systematically isolated acts by disturbed people."

Marine Le Pen, the party leader, had said earlier that the government was "in
denial" over terrorism.

The National Front believes that the government is fearful of confronting the
large, Muslim-dominated population of suburban council estates where sympathy
for jihad and Isis is rife among teenagers and young men.

Support for the National Front's view was extensive on social networks yesterday
and the spectre of wider terrorism was also invoked in the media. "Fear over
Christmas" was the headline on the front page of Le Parisien.

"It does not matter whether these criminal acts were the deeds of fanatics or
individuals with psychiatric problems," the newspaper said. "The question that
we ask today is how many madmen are there at large who are going to reproduce
such horrors?"

Le Figaro worried about "enemies from within" and wondered whether a French
jihadist recently seen beheading a captive in Syria was also merely mentally
disturbed. "From now on it is time to track down those people in France who are
attacking us in the name of radical Islam," it said.

Since Saturday's attack, police have been ordered to wear their protective vests
and keep their weapons within reach at all times, even inside their stations, Le
Monde reported last night.

Bernard Cazeneuve, the interior minister, said that police had made 118 arrests
recently in the campaign to stop French nationals who had fought for extremists
in Iraq and Syria staging terrorist acts on their return.

LOAD-DATE: December 24, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBTTO


                     Copyright 2014 News International Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                              113 of 143 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring South Asia - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                           December 25, 2014 Thursday

Pakistan president says Peshawar attack "major setback" to fight against terror

LENGTH: 419 words


Text of report published by private Pakistani news channel Geo News website on
25 December

Quetta: President Mamnoon Hussain while addressing a gathering at the
Quaid-e-Azam Residency in Ziarat, on the occasion of the birth anniversary of
the founder of Pakistan, said that the Peshawar tragedy has deeply hurt the
whole nation and caused a major setback.

He went on to say that everyone must unite against the terrorists as now it was
the time to make things right. He said that Pakistan will be at peace once we
have eliminated all traces of terrorism and that the nation has complete faith
in its armed forces.

The president further said that Pakistan must stand up again bravely and show no
fear to the terrorists and provide moral support to the armed forces so that the
enemy is weakened to the core as soon as possible.

With regards to the Quaid-e-Azam Residency attack of last year, he said that
terrorists tried their best to destroy it to the ground but it we can still
overcome such incidents in the light of knowledge and guidance provided by the
founder of the nation.

He went on to say that the Balochistan government restored the Residency back to
its original condition through its efforts. The president also said that very
soon Balochistan would be the key corridor for the economy to flourish further
in Pakistan and the Gwadar port would also be very active soon as well as a
Gwadar airport will be developed.

Earlier on Thursday, while addressing a Christmas congregation at Holy Rosy
Church in Cantonment area, the president said that terrorists have no religion
and that the Peshawar school attack is as horrifying as the deadly church
bombing of last year in Peshawar.

Commander Southern Command, Lieutenant General Nasir Khan Janjua and Khalil
Bhutto, minority affairs member of National Assembly were also present on the
occasion.

The President further said that he was highly hounoured to be present at this
congregation, while wishing the Christian community well on the occasion of
Christmas.

He went on to say that the people of Pakistan want to live peacefully and
happily as individuals and as a nation and it is only a handful of terrorists
that have made everyone's lives miserable.

With regards to last year's Peshawar church bombing as well as the ill-fated Kot
Radha Kishan incident in which a Christian couple were burnt alive, he said that
it is extremely disheartening that the Christian community was targeted in both.

Source: Geo News TV website, Karachi, in English 0000gmt 25 Dec 14

LOAD-DATE: December 25, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2014 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              114 of 143 DOCUMENTS


                            BBC Monitoring Kiev Unit
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                           December 25, 2014 Thursday

Ukrainian steelworks change export routes after terror attack

LENGTH: 167 words


Excerpt from report by Interfax-Ukraine news agency

Kiev, 25 December: The steelworks Azovstal and Illich based in Mariupol as well
as Donetskstal and Zaporizhstal asked the Berdyansk seaport to ship a part of
their output following a terror attack which damaged a bridge leading to the
Mariupol seaport.

The acting director of the Berdyansk seaport Mykola Ilyin said that the seaport
is prepared to ship 25,000 tonnes of steel billets from Metinvest, 15,000 tonnes
of cast iron from Zaporizhstal, 20,000-40,000 tonnes of cast iron and 5,000
tonnes of coke from Donetskstal.

[Passage omitted: Ilyin praises his seaport]

The Berdyansk seaport has launched preparations for shipping metal which is
ready to be dispatched via Berdyansk. Deputy director Andriy Fishchenko said
that the Berdyansk seaport is prepared to process 230-260 carloads and that the
first ship will arrive for loading on 31 December.

[Passage omitted: more on this]

Source: Interfax-Ukraine news agency, Kiev, in Russian 1040 gmt 25 Dec 14

LOAD-DATE: December 25, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2014 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              115 of 143 DOCUMENTS


                            BBC Monitoring Kiev Unit
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                           December 25, 2014 Thursday

Ukrainian security official warns of terrorist threat after Kiev grenade attack

LENGTH: 293 words


Excerpt from report by Interfax-Ukraine news agency

Kiev, 25 December: The secretary of the National Security and Defence Council
[NSDC], Oleksandr Turchynov, sees the attempt on the life of the first deputy
spokesman of the parliament, Andriy Parubiy, as an indicator of the increased
terrorist threat and an attempt to destabilize the situation inside the country.

"The attempt on the life of the first deputy chairman of the Supreme Council,
the People's Front party member, Andriy Parubiy, is another element of the
danger of the growth of the terrorist threat and the attempt to destabilize the
situation inside the entire country," Turchynov's press secretary, Hanna
Vapotska, quoted him as saying. "The agressors constantly violate the cease-fire
agreements. Every day they try and fail to breach the defence of our Armed
Forces in the east. That is why they decided to transfer the treacherous
terrorist war to all the regions of the country."

She further quoted Turchynov as saying that the SBU [Security Service of
Ukraine], Interior Ministry and all the law enforcement units should ensure not
only that all terrorist attempts are cleared up, but also "build an operative
system for the protection of our citizens from terrorism as well".

Among the priority tasks in this area, Turchynov sees "the need to block the
opportunity for terrorist and sabotage groups to infiltrate from the occupied
territories of Donetsk, Luhansk regions and Crimea".

"The number of check points on the defensive lines will be reduced. Everyone who
goes through them will be subject to thorough checks, while all detour routes
will be completely closed," Turchynov said.

[Passage omitted: background]

Source: Interfax-Ukraine news agency, Kiev, in Russian 1002 gmt 25 Dec 14

LOAD-DATE: December 25, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2014 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              116 of 143 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring Middle East - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                           December 25, 2014 Thursday

Syrian news agency reports "terrorist" mortar attacks in Damascus

LENGTH: 127 words


Text of report in English by state-run Syrian news agency SANA website

Damascus, SANA - Terrorist mortar attacks on Harasta suburb and al-Wafideen Camp
in Damascus on Thursday [25 December] left material damage only, according to a
Police Command source.

The source told SANA reporter that terrorists fired five mortar shells on
Harasta district, north of Damascus, which fell in separate areas, causing
material damage to a number of houses, shops and cars.

In the same context, terrorists targeted al-Majd area in al-Wafideen Camp
neighbourhood with two mortar shells that caused material damage where they
landed. The source confirmed to the reporter that no one was hurt in the two
attacks.

Source: SANA news agency website, Damascus, in English 1715 gmt 25 Dec 14

LOAD-DATE: December 25, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2014 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              117 of 143 DOCUMENTS



                                  mirror.co.uk

                     December 25, 2014 Thursday 8:35 AM GMT

The Interview finally sees the light of day - but reviews are mixed: See
reaction to controversial comedy;
The comedy that led to a massive cyber-attack and terrorist threats was released
on Christmas Eve

BYLINE: By Tufayel Ahmed

SECTION: TV,TV NEWS

LENGTH: 575 words


The Interview Final Trailer - Meet Kim Jong-Un

Sony Pictures finally released its bawdy new comedy The Interview online on
Christmas Eve despite terrorist threats - but was it worth the wait?

The comedy, starring Seth Rogen and James Franco, depicts an assassination plot
against North Korean leader Kim Jong-un, so it was always going to be
controversial.

However, no-one could have predicted its impending release would lead to a
massive cyber-attack on Sony's servers, with tons of embarrassing emails from
studio heads Amy Pascal and Michael Lynton leaked in the process, and threats of
a 9/11-style attack if it was allowed in cinemas. Sony subsequently pulled the
release after large cinema chains in the US opted against screening it, but now
200 independent cinemas have come forward to show the movie from Christmas Day.

Last week the FBI pointed the finger at North Korea as the culprit of the hack,
carried out by a mysterious group calling themselves the Guardians of Peace, and
everyone from Nick Clegg to US President Barack Obama has had their say on what
has gone from a simple piece of entertainment to a very real, international
incident.

James Franco talks on playing madcap Dave Skylark in The Interview

But now the general public has been able to get their hands on The Interview
(through YouTube Movies, Google Play and Sony's own dedicated website),
reactions are beginning to pour in and the consensus seems to be that it's OK at
best.

Read on for reaction to 2014's most talked-about film release:What the critics
are saying

The critical reaction to The Interview has been split down the middle, rating
50% fresh on review aggregator RottenTomatoes.com. That's slightly better than
Angelina Jolie's Unbroken and Night at the Museum 3 (both are 48% fresh), which
are also released around Christmas, and a lot better than Annie (30%) and
biblical epic Exodus: Gods and Kings (28%).

Films that were reviewed more generously include Tim Burton's Big Eyes (71%),
Disney musical Into the Woods (73%) and The Hobbit: The Battle of the Five
Armies (60%).

The critical rating could continue to decline, however, as more ratings pour in.

The Los Angeles Times said, "Characterising it as satire elevates the creative
execution of the film's very silly faux assassination of North Korea's leader
Kim Jong Un far beyond what it merits."

A lot of the praise for the film went, rather ironically to, Randall Park, the
man who portrays Kim Jong-um. The Independent wrote, "Randall Park, who plays
Kim, is a riot throughout."What casual viewers are saying

The Twittersphere was equally torn - deeming The Interview everything from an
offensive mess to highly funny.

The Interview tweet 1

The Interview tweet 2

The Interview tweet 3

The Interview tweet 4

The Interview tweet 5

The Interview tweet 6How can I watch it?

Sadly, the online Video on Demand service is only available in the US at the
moment.

YouTube Movies, Google Play, Microsoft's Xbox Video are all hosting  the film
alongside Sony's own website seetheinterview.com.

The movie is available for rent at $5.99 or for purchase in HD for $14.99.

The UK release date was expected to be February 6, 2015. We await confirmation
from Sony that the film will be released on that date.

 Will you watch The Interview?

Will you be watching The Interview?

Like this? Did you know we have a dedicated TV and Film page on Facebook?

Mirror TV Facebook Promotion

Sony CEO says considering options to release "The Interview"

LOAD-DATE: December 25, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDMI


                      Copyright 2014 Trinity Mirror, Plc.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              118 of 143 DOCUMENTS



                               Independent.co.uk

                      December 26, 2014 Friday 6:30 PM GMT

Trillion-dollar war in Afghanistan achieved its goal, says Barack Obama;
Afghanistan is 'not going to be a source of terrorist attacks again,' says US
president

BYLINE: Tim Walker

SECTION: FRONTPAGE

LENGTH: 378 words


A week before the official end of the long US combat mission in Afghanistan,
President Barack Obama has thanked troops at a Marine Corps base in Hawaii,
telling them that the conflict has made the world "safer", and that Afghanistan
is "not going to be a source of terrorist attacks again."

The President and his wife, Michelle, interrupted their annual holiday to visit
troops and their families at the ocean-front base in Kanoehe Bay on Christmas
Day, where Mr Obama told an audience of more than 400 people: "Because of the
extraordinary service of the men and women in the American armed forces,
Afghanistan has a chance to rebuild its own country." Mr Obama has long promised
to bring the war in Afghanistan to a close, and his confirmation that the combat
mission was almost over was greeted by the traditional Marine cheer of "Hooah".

Mrs Obama has focused her attention on military families, and, in a joint
Christmas radio address with her husband, she said: "As our troops continue to
transition back home... it's up to all of us to serve them as well as they have
served us."

Camp Bastion: Last soldiers leave military base

US troops first arrived in Afghanistan less than a month after the 9/11 attacks
on New York and Washington DC, unseating the Taliban before bedding in for a
conflict, which has claimed the lives of more than 2,000 US military personnel.
Some 13 years later, and after spending more than $1 trillion on the war, the US
is preparing to pull most of its combat troops out before the end of this year.

READ MORE: Much of southern Afghanistan already in Taliban handsShooting for fun
in AfghanistanEditorial: Afghanistan's challenges ahead

In 2010, there were 140,000 US and Nato troops in Afghanistan. By 2015 there
will be just 13,500, including around 10,000 Americans, who will move from
combat roles to training and battlefield support for the Afghan security forces.
But 2014 has been the bloodiest year of the entire war, with Afghan military
casualties rising in line with their increased responsibility.

More than 4,000 Afghan soldiers and police have been killed in the past 12
months. Insurgent groups have occupied large swathes of  Afghanistan, raising
fears that Islamic radicals may reclaim control when the US and its allies exit.

LOAD-DATE: December 26, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBI


           Copyright 2014 Independent Digital News and Media Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              119 of 143 DOCUMENTS



                                   MailOnline

                      December 26, 2014 Friday 3:21 PM GMT

'I think in the next 12 months something else will happen': Terror expert's
warning over future attacks as Sydney steps up security measures for New Year's
Eve celebrations

BYLINE: SALLY LEE FOR DAILY MAIL AUSTRALIA and AUSTRALIAN ASSOCIATED PRESS

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 521 words



     ·    Police are working with event organisers to improve security measures
          in the lead up to New Year's Eve
     ·    It comes after Prime Minister Tony Abbott warned of heightened
          terrorist 'chatter'
     ·    A terror expert also believes 'in the next 12 months something else
          will happen'
     ·    The Boxing Day Test and Sydney to Hobart yacht race have started with
          plenty of security in place


Police are working closely with event organisers to increase security measures
in the lead up to one of Sydney's biggest celebrations - New Year's Eve - just
days after Prime Minister Tony Abbott warned of heightened terrorist 'chatter'.

It comes as a terror expert told the Sydney Morning Herald  he believes another
attack will transpire 'in the next 12 months'.

'I wouldn't want to put a percentage on it, but I think in the next 12 months
something else will happen, either in Australia or in Indonesia directed at
Australians,' claimed Jeff Lewis, terrorism expert at RMIT.

Mr Abbott warned on Christmas Eve of heightened terrorist chatter following the
Martin Place siege nearly two weeks ago.

'We do need to be conscious of the fact that the terror threat remains high.
There are people who would do us harm and who can do us harm,' Mr Abbott said,
the Sydney Morning Herald reports.

'I do want to reassure you though that our law enforcement agencies and our
police forces and our security agencies will be working around the clock to keep
you as safe as possible over the holiday season, as they do at all times.'

The City of Sydney Council is anticipating more than a million revellers to
attend its major New Year's Eve event.

Assistant commissioner for NSW Police, Mick Fuller, further told the Sydney
Morning Herald he is unaware of details surrounding any threats to Sydney on the
last day of the year.

But in an interview with the Herald yesterday, a terrorism expert from RMIT
University in Melbourne said another attack is likely next year.

Although Jeff Lewis was reluctant to make any predictions he said: 'I think in
the next 12 months something else will happen, either in Australia or in
Indonesia directed at Australians.'

Less than a fortnight after the Martin Place siege tragedy, there was plenty of
visible security around the MCG and Sydney Harbour on Friday for two of
Australia's iconic sporting events - The Boxing Day Test and Sydney to Hobart
yacht race.

Security at the MCG was at a level usually only seen for the AFL grand final or
the Anzac Day blockbuster.

There were added checkpoints on Brunton Ave and car boots were searched before
entering Yarra Park.

The police presence in and around the ground seemed normal for a major event.

'We are in regular contact with police and the relevant authorities to ensure we
have the most appropriate security measures in place,' a Cricket Australia
spokesman said.

'The safety of players, officials and fans is our highest priority.'

On Sydney Harbour, there was the usual obvious presence of police and NSW
Maritime officers to keep vessels outside the race exclusion zone as the fleet
set off for Hobart.

However, event organisers said there were no extra security measures in place
for the start.

LOAD-DATE: December 26, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDM


                   Copyright 2014 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              120 of 143 DOCUMENTS



                                   MailOnline

                      December 26, 2014 Friday 1:48 PM GMT

'I think in the next 12 months something else will happen': Terror expert's
warning over future attacks as Sydney steps up security measures for New Year's
Eve celebrations

BYLINE: SALLY LEE FOR DAILY MAIL AUSTRALIA and AUSTRALIAN ASSOCIATED PRESS

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 508 words



     ·    Police are working with event organisers to improve security measures
          in the lead up to New Year's Eve
     ·    It comes after Prime Minister Tony Abbott warned of heightened
          terrorist 'chatter'
     ·    A terror expert also believes 'in the next 12 months something else
          will happen'
     ·    The Boxing Day Test and Sydney to Hobart yacht race have started with
          plenty of security in place


Police are working closely with event organisers to increase security measures
in the lead up to one of Sydney's biggest celebrations - New Year's Eve - just
days after Prime Minister Tony Abbott warned of heightened terrorist 'chatter'.

It comes as a terror expert told the Sydney Morning Herald  he believes another
attack will transpire 'in the next 12 months'.

Since the Lindt Cafe siege in Martin Place, there's been a boost in security
being implemented in two major Boxing Day sporting events.

Mr Abbott warned on Christmas Eve of heightened terrorist chatter following the
Martin Place siege nearly two weeks ago.

'We do need to be conscious of the fact that the terror threat remains high.
There are people who would do us harm and who can do us harm,' Mr Abbott said,
the Sydney Morning Herald reports.

'I do want to reassure you though that our law enforcement agencies and our
police forces and our security agencies will be working around the clock to keep
you as safe as possible over the holiday season, as they do at all times.'

The City of Sydney Council is anticipating more than a million revellers to
attend its major New Year's Eve event.

Assistant commissioner for NSW Police, Mick Fuller, further told the Sydney
Morning Herald he is unaware of details surrounding any threats to Sydney on the
last day of the year.

But in an interview with the Herald yesterday, a terrorism expert from RMIT
University in Melbourne said another attack is likely next year.

Although Jeff Lewis was reluctant to make any predictions he said: 'I think in
the next 12 months something else will happen, either in Australia or in
Indonesia directed at Australians.'

Less than a fortnight after the Martin Place siege tragedy, there was plenty of
visible security around the MCG and Sydney Harbour on Friday for two of
Australia's iconic sporting events - The Boxing Day Test and Sydney to Hobart
yacht race.

Security at the MCG was at a level usually only seen for the AFL grand final or
the Anzac Day blockbuster.

There were added checkpoints on Brunton Ave and car boots were searched before
entering Yarra Park.

The police presence in and around the ground seemed normal for a major event.

'We are in regular contact with police and the relevant authorities to ensure we
have the most appropriate security measures in place,' a Cricket Australia
spokesman said.

'The safety of players, officials and fans is our highest priority.'

On Sydney Harbour, there was the usual obvious presence of police and NSW
Maritime officers to keep vessels outside the race exclusion zone as the fleet
set off for Hobart.

However, event organisers said there were no extra security measures in place
for the start.

LOAD-DATE: December 26, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDM


                   Copyright 2014 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              121 of 143 DOCUMENTS


                            BBC Monitoring Kiev Unit
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                           December 27, 2014 Saturday

Ukrainian police investigate Lviv shooting, Odessa blast as terror attacks

LENGTH: 136 words


The Lviv police have qualified the grenade launcher attack on the house of Lviv
city mayor Andriy Sadovyy which took place on 26 December as a terror attack,
the UNIAN news agency reported at 1030 gmt on 27 December, quoting the Lviv
Region police.

A grenade smashed windows and damaged the ground floor in the building. There
were no casualties. Sadovyy and his family were at a ski resort at the time, the
agency said.

The Odessa police have qualified the bomb explosion which took place early on 27
December as a terror attack, UNIAN said at 1339 gmt on 27 December. The only
victim of the blast was the likely perpetrator who was carrying the bomb, the
Odessa police chief was quoted as saying.

Sources: UNIAN news agency, Kiev, in Ukrainian 1030 gmt 27 Dec 14; UNIAN news
agency, Kiev, in Ukrainian 1039 gmt 27 Dec 14

LOAD-DATE: December 27, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2014 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              122 of 143 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring Middle East - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                           December 27, 2014 Saturday

Several residential houses in Syria's Idlib damaged in "terrorist attacks"

LENGTH: 136 words


Text of report by Rasha Raslan/Haifa Said published in English by state-run
Syrian news agency SANA website

Idlib - A series of terrorist attacks with mortar rounds on several residential
neighbourhoods in Idlib city caused material damage to several houses and public
properties.

A source at the Police Command in the province told SANA reporter that the
terrorists fired a number of mortar rounds yesterday evening which fell in the
Al-Mualimin residential area, near the Post building and in the surrounding of
the Social Insurance Establishment building.

The source added that the attacks caused huge material damage to a number of
houses, shops, cars, services institutions and public utilities, noting that no
human casualties were reported.

Source: SANA news agency website, Damascus, in English 1520 gmt 27 Dec 14

LOAD-DATE: December 27, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2014 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              123 of 143 DOCUMENTS



                                   MailOnline

                    December 27, 2014 Saturday 10:10 PM GMT

Retreating of the Queen's Guard: End of an era as palace sentries fall back in
face of mounting fears of new 'lone wolf' terrorist attack

BYLINE: ABUL TAHER AND MARK NICOL FOR THE MAIL ON SUNDAY

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 1230 words



     ·    Security bosses have withdrawn Royal Guards from posts outside palaces
          amid fears of a 'lone wolf' terror attack
     ·    Elite soldiers of the Queen's Guard no longer allowed on sentry duty
          alone and are accompanied by armed police
     ·    But the measures have been described as a 'retreat' for the Guards,
          known the world over for their bearskin caps
     ·    Changes confirmed at sites including Clarence House, St James's
          Palace, Windsor Castle and Horse Guards Parade


Security chiefs have taken the dramatic step of withdrawing Royal Guards from
their high-profile posts outside palaces amid mounting fears of 'lone wolf'
terrorist attacks.

Elite soldiers of the Queen's Guard have pulled back from public positions at
many landmarks in response to possible threats from Islamic extremists.

For the first time since the height of the IRA's terror campaign, the soldiers
are also no longer allowed on sentry duty alone, and are now accompanied by
armed police.

The move to more secure positions behind gates or railings is a direct response
to attacks such as the murder of Fusilier Lee Rigby and the killing of a sentry
by a lone gunman at the Canadian Parliament two months ago.

But the measures have been described as a 'retreat' for the Guards, known the
world over for their bearskin caps.

Retired officer Major Iain Dalzel-Job of the Scots Guards told The Mail on
Sunday: 'I think this is a big shame.

'The reason people know we're around is because they can see us. But I suppose
the changes are necessary as there is a significant threat.'

This newspaper has confirmed the changes to the Guards' security at sites
including Clarence House, St James's Palace, Windsor Castle and Horse Guards
Parade.

At Clarence House, the official residence of Prince Charles, the guardsmen who
used to stand in front of the gates on The Mall, a public road, have now been
relocated, along with their sentry boxes, behind metal gates.

Tourists, who love to pose with the Guards, can now barely see them. Police
officers confirmed changes had been made for security reasons.

At St James's Palace, the London home of Princess Anne and Princesses Beatrice
and Eugenie, two Guardsmen used to perform sentry duties beneath its famous
clock tower on Pall Mall.

These guards and their sentry boxes have now been moved into a secluded
courtyard inside the perimeter, leaving no visible presence at the clock tower
gate.

In Horse Guards Parade, two sentries still stand guard where tourists can pose
for photographs with them. But four armed police officers now guard the
soldiers.

The officers carry Heckler and Koch carbine rifles, pistols and Taser guns - in
contrast to the Guards, who just carry ceremonial swords.

A Metropolitan Police officer on duty there told our reporter: 'Yes, we are a
recent addition here. It's us guarding the Guards. I think there's a Latin
phrase for that.'

At Windsor Castle, up to three armed officers now stand next to the lone sentry
on guard duty on the Western side of the castle.

The tightening of security to levels unseen since the height of the IRA terror
campaign comes in the wake of fanatics from the so-called Islamic State based in
Iraq and Syria threatening Britain.

Al-Qaeda groups have also called on would-be terrorists to launch 'lone wolf'
attacks against UK soldiers and police.

On Christmas Eve, Al-Qaeda in the Arabian Peninsula (AQAP) encouraged Muslims to
launch attacks in the West on their own.

It published a magazine that gave instructions for a home-made bomb, and urged
its readers to use such a device to blow up an airliner or other Western target.

Former soldiers said last night that the changes were needed as sentries felt
vulnerable to attack.

One Guards insider said: 'We're fully in favour as if an attack on a sentry can
happen in Canada it can happen here. By moving behind the railings we've got a
chance to respond, most likely saving lives.

'The changes were introduced in response to the Canadian attack and because
there's been a sharp rise in people armed with mobile phones trying to wind up
the sentries and make them lose their temper.'

Former Welsh guardsman and former Met police officer Terry O'Shea said: 'Moving
the Guardsmen back to a more secure area seems an honourable retreat given the
danger posed by the terrorists.

'We have got to strike a balance between not compromising our traditions and
protecting our soldiers.

'Unfortunately this is a sign of the times and how unpredictable the current
situation is.

'We've seen horrific incidents across the world and in our capital city, so some
action had to be taken to reduce the risk, even if it can never be eliminated.

'You could argue that there should be a defiant stand but how do you protect the
soldiers on parade in a bright suit, shiny boots and a furry hat?

'Where do we draw the line? Do you allow these soldiers to be armed? I think
that could cause a greater problem.

'The terrorists know that a Guardsman is a higher profile target than an
ordinary soldier and they're looking for publicity, something spectacular, so
the Guards would suit their agenda.'

Although there have not been any successful terror attacks in Britain since Lee
Rigby was killed outside Woolwich Barracks in May last year, intelligence
services say they have foiled a number of plots this year.

Last month, police stopped an alleged plot to launch an attack on Remembrance
Sunday, after arresting four men in London and High Wycombe, Buckinghamshire.

Also last month, police chiefs warned officers not to wear their uniforms to and
from work as Islamic terrorists were looking to target officers.

In October, Muslim convert Michael Zehaf-Bibeau, 32, shot dead sentry Nathan
Cirillo, 24, outside the National War Memorial in Ottawa, Canada, then stormed
into the nearby Parliament building before being shot dead by security guards.

The soldiers currently performing ceremonial duties outside the Royal palaces
are drawn from the 1st Battalion Welsh Guards, F Company of the Scots Guards and
7 Company of the Coldstream Guards.

These Guardsmen carry rifles equipped with bayonets but as a rule their rifles
are not loaded with live ammunition.

The Guardsmen may carry up to six rounds in a belt pouch and may load their
rifles in event of a terrorist attack, but that would take valuable time.

The two sentries beneath the clock tower at St James's were temporarily
withdrawn during the 1980s when the IRA threat level peaked, but The Mail on
Sunday understands that this is the first time they have been redeployed
permanently.

Ken Wharfe, Princess Diana's former bodyguard, said: 'These officers are always
stagnant, so an attack on them is very easy.

'Although the Queen's Guards are there to protect the Royals, the actual
security is done by the Met Police.

'But the Palace has always resisted getting rid of the Guards as they are part
of the tradition. The Palace would have been consulted on this.'

Lord Carlile, the former Government watchdog on counter-terrorism, said: 'I
think the changes are measured and not an over-reaction.'

Chloe Howard, deputy editor of the popular Royal Central blog, said: 'It is a
shame, as it denies the public the chance of seeing these well-known uniforms
that are part of the British identity. Some may think it is a retreat.'

Buckingham Palace and the Met Police would not comment on security matters,
while the Ministry of Defence said: 'We routinely review security arrangements.'



LOAD-DATE: December 27, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDM


                   Copyright 2014 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              124 of 143 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring Middle East - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                            December 28, 2014 Sunday

Camp belonging to "terrorist" group in southern Libya attacked

LENGTH: 435 words


Text of report in English by Libya Herald staff headlined: "Militants' camp in
Traghen attacked: report," published by Libyan privately-owned online news
website Libya Herald on 28 December

A camp used by jihadists near Traghen, south of Sebha [Sabha], is reported to
have been attacked this morning, but it is unclear by whom. There were said to
have been huge explosions at ammunition store at the camp. One report speaks of
a helicopter being involved in the attack and a number of militants captured.
The incident apparently happened at 03:00 local time.

The camp is thought to be that being used by militants linked to Mokhtar
Belmokhtar the Algerian former commander of Al-Qa'idah in the [Land of the
Islamic] Maghreb (AQLIM) and now heading the group Al-Murabitoun. The camp has
been the focus of intense US and French military interest.

One report claimed that French forces were involved. However, a French military
specialist focusing on the area said it was extremely unlikely that French
forces would be operating so far from the border with Niger and Chad. If there
had been an attack he said, it was more likely to have involved US drones.

Nonetheless, there have been persistent reports this month of French forces,
part of the six-nation anti-jihadist Operation Barkhane, gathering on the
Chadian side of the border. It has even been alleged that some of them,
accompanied by Chadian forces, had crossed into Libya, although this has been
denied by French diplomats.

In Paris, in an interview published today in the Journal du Dimanche and
indicating increased French concern about southern Libya, France's Defence
Minister Jean-Yves Le Drian said that the area had become a "terrorist hub" and
that dealing with it was a priority. Although a military operation by itself
would be "sterile" without a political solution, Al-Qa'idah and Da'ish were
merging into one in Libya, he said, and the United Nations and the African Union
would have to take action on it in 2015. The world was entering into a new
situation, he said. With an abundance of funds and weapons, the terrorists were
becoming militarized. "It demands a military response".

Meanwhile Khalid al-Sharif, who has retained the position of deputy defence
minister in Umar al-Hasi's Tripoli-based "government", is reported today
claiming that 67 Chadian military vehicles had crossed the border and accusing
Chad of interfering in Libya's internal affairs. The former commander in the
Libyan Islamic Fighting Group was also reported saying that his forces would
respond in due course.

Source: Libya Herald, Tripoli, in English 0001 gmt 28 Dec 14

LOAD-DATE: December 29, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2014 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              125 of 143 DOCUMENTS


                                  Daily Mirror

                            December 28, 2014 Sunday
                                   Edition 1;
                                Northern Ireland

ISIS PLOT TO KILL QUEEN'S GUARDS;
Islamic terror attack fear at Royal homes

BYLINE: NICK DORMAN

SECTION: Pg. 1

LENGTH: 52 words


AN Islamic State plot to kill guards at Royal palaces has been uncovered.

"Elite troops at key Royal homes have been re-posi-tioned behind fences and
given armed back-up in a big security shake-up amid terror warnings about a
"lone wolf " trophy hunter.

A senior source said: "The threat is acute."

SEE PAGES 4 & 5s

LOAD-DATE: December 28, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: SMR


                            Copyright 2014 MGN Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              126 of 143 DOCUMENTS



                                 Express Online

                      December 28, 2014 Sunday 6:46 PM GMT

Buckingham Palace guards withdrawn amid fears of 'lone wolf' terror attack

BYLINE: Anil Dawar

LENGTH: 630 words


ROYAL guards are being withdrawn from high-profile sentry posts outside palaces
amid mounting fears of a "lone wolf" terrorist attack.

TONY SAPIANO

Sentries at Prince Charles' Clarence House have been moved inside the gates

Soldiers of the Queen's Guard have been pulled back from public positions at
many landmarks in response to possible threats from Islamic extremists.

And for the first time since the height of the IRA's terror campaign in the
1980s, the elite soldiers are no longer allowed on sentry duty alone and are
being shadowed by armed police.

The drastic move is thought to have come in response to the killing of Fusilier
Lee Rigby and the recent shooting of a Canadian forces sentry by a lone gunman
at the country's National War Memorial.

Last month the police and intelligence services revealed they had foiled an
Islamist plot to mount a possible attack on serviceman and civilians on
Remembrance Sunday.

The national terror threat level in the UK was raised from substantial to severe
earlier this year, meaning a terrorist attack is "highly likely."

But the move to put the Guards, famed for their bearskin hats, out of public
reach have been described as a "retreat."

Major Iain Dalzel-Job, a retired Scots Guards officer, said that the
repositioning of soldiers at Clarence House and St James's Palace was "a big
shame".

He said: "The reason people know we're around is because they can see us. But I
suppose the changes are necessary as there is a significant threat."

Former Welsh guardsman and ex-Met police officer Terry O'Shea said: "Moving the
Guardsmen back to a more secure area seems an honourable retreat given the
danger posed by the terrorists. We have got to strike a balance between not
compromising our traditions and protecting our soldiers. Unfortunately this is a
sign of the times. We've seen horrific incidents across the world and in our
capital city, so some action had to be taken to reduce the risk, even if it can
never be eliminated.

"The terrorists are looking for something spectacular, so the Guards would suit
their agenda."

Lord Carlile, the former Government watchdog on counter-terrorism, called the
changes "measured and not an over-reaction."

The repositioning of members of the Coldstream, Welsh and Scots Guards - which
provide all the Royal Guards - has happened across the capital and Windsor
Castle

At Prince Charles' official residence, Clarence House, the sentry boxes which
once stood in front of the gates on The Mall have now been repositioned, along
with their occupants, behind metal gates.

While at St James's Palace, the London home of Princesses Anne, Beatrice and
Eugenie, two Guardsmen have now been moved into a secluded courtyard inside the
perimeter, leaving no visible presence at its famous clock tower gate.

Related articles Fears Princess Beatrice computer HACKED by North Koreans
working for Kim Jong-un Regal highs! Magic mushroom found in Buckingham Palace
garden Prince George has Christmas dinner with granny as Kate and Wills take him
to see the Queen

At Horse Guards Parade members of the Household Cavalry, armed only with
ceremonial swords, still occupy their usual posts in Whitehall but they are
being protected by up to four Scotland Yard officers.

Armed police have also been on duty outside Windsor Castle alongside the
traditional guardsmen.

The tightening of security to levels unseen since the height of the IRA terror
campaign comes in the wake of fanatics from the Islamic State based in Iraq and
Syria threatening Britain.

Al-Qaeda groups have also called on would-be terrorists to launch "lone wolf"
attacks against UK soldiers and police.

Buckingham Palace and the Met Police would not comment on security matters, but
the Ministry of Defence said: "We routinely review security arrangements."

LOAD-DATE: December 28, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDE


              Copyright 2014 Northern and Shell Media Publications
                              All Rights Reserved

                              127 of 143 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring South Asia - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                            December 29, 2014 Monday

Terror attacks in India's north east displaces 10,000 tribal people

LENGTH: 474 words


Text of report published by Indian newspaper The Hindu website on 29 December

Saralpara (India-Bhutan Border): The terror attacks by the National Democratic
Front of Bodoland (Songbijit) on Adivasi villages on the night of December 23
have triggered a humanitarian crisis, displacing over 10,000 Bodos and Adivasi
forest dwellers from 35 villages within an eight-km radius from this settlement
in Kokrajhar district for the third time.

After being displaced during ethnic clashes between the Bodos and the Adivasis
in 1996 and 1998, most of them started rebuilding their lives only about eight
years ago.

The border settlement, with Bodo, Adivasi and Nepalese populations, is about 65
km from Kokrajhar town, the headquarters of the Bodoland Territorial Council.

The number of people in the relief camps continues to swell as panic gripped
inhabitants of the Ultapani reserve forests, who do not possess land rights.

On Sunday, scores of people were seen flocking to the relief camps, leaving
behind their granaries full of paddy harvested just before the trouble broke out
and taking along whatever little belongings - utensils, solar plates, buckets,
clothes and so on - they could carry on their bicycles and pull carts or in
their hands.

Miscreants torched the abandoned houses of some who shifted to the camps
earlier, reducing their paddy stock and other goods and properties to ashes.
Authorities said the number of people in the relief camps in the violence-hit
Kokrajhar, Sonitpur, Chirang and Udalguri districts swelled to 1,76,440. They
include 1,15,337 displaced Adivasis taking shelter in 72 camps and 61,003 Bodos
in 64 camps.

"The NDFB(S) militants, some 20 of them and all in black attire, came to our
village when the sun had just turned red. They fired indiscriminately for long.
I had gone to fetch water and fled into the jungle after hearing gunshots. I
came out much after the rattle of gunfire stopped, returned home after the Army
arrived at night. I found my sister Sumila Hasda (14) lying dead and younger
sister Phulmoni (3) crying in pain with a bullet wound," Durga Hasda told The
Hindu at the Saralpara relief camp in which over 8,000 displaced Adivasi forest
dwellers from 26 villages have taken shelter. The attack left 14 dead and three
injured.

The 39-km road connecting the National Highway passing through Kokrajhar
district with this small border settlement and those of Bodo and Adivasi forest
dwellers on patches inside the reserve forests under the Haltugaon forest
division on both sides of the road wore a deserted look. The porous India-Bhutan
border just near the border pillar witnessed a flurry of activity on Sunday
afternoon with inmates of the Naharani Bodo camp, opened on the campus of SSB
camp, being shifted to a new one about two km away.

Source: The Hindu website, Chennai, in English 29 Dec 14

LOAD-DATE: December 29, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2014 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              128 of 143 DOCUMENTS



                              birminghampost.co.uk

                      December 29, 2014 Monday 4:53 PM GMT

Birmingham Airport is 'ideal target' for terror drone attack;
Security expert says airport has several factors which could make it ideal for
terrorists attempting to fly a drone into a plane's engines

BYLINE: By Ben Hurst

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 675 words


Birmingham Airport is "highly likely" to be targeted by terrorists using drones
to try to bring down aircraft, an expert has claimed.

Prof David H Dunn, of the University of Birmingham, said there was a growing
risk of extremists using the flying devices to try to crash into the engines of
planes taking off.

And he said powerful drones capable of bringing down an airliner were becoming
increasingly widespread and could be bought by terrorists for as little as £500
- £1,000.

Prof Dunn is author of a recent report, in collaboration with Sir David Omand,
the former head of GCHQ, which called for "urgent" measures to protect British
airspace from attack.

The calls follow a near miss when a drone flew within 20ft of a packed Airbus
A320 as it landed at Heathrow Airport in July.

According to Prof Dunn, the best way to carry out a deliberate attack would be
to try to co-ordinate a "screen" of drones on the flightpath which the pilots
would not see until too late.

He revealed the location of Birmingham Airport made it ideal for such an attack.

Prof Dunn said: "There are three things which make Birmingham Airport a target
for a terrorist drone attack.

"First, it is in quite a rural location, so that anyone controlling the drones
could make a quick getaway - somewhere like Heathrow you're surrounded by things
like the M25.

"At Birmingham the flight path is also beneficial - it goes directly over
heavily populated areas so there would be a huge opportunity to cause the
maximum number of casualties.

"Finally there is also the fact that most of the jets using the airport have two
engines - this makes them much easier to bring down than the bigger aircraft
with four engines.

"Taking all these together Birmingham has a large number of factors which, it
might be said, make it highly likely to be attacked."

The professor said the "robotics revolution" meant the use of drones was going
to become increasingly widespread.

He revealed farmers would use them to patrol their land, spot animals in
difficulty, broken fences and crops needing watering.

He explained technology advances meant they could be programmed to follow flight
paths using global positioning systems.

He added that simply crashing into aircraft was not the only way terrorists
could use drones for an attack.

One chilling scenario feared by Prof Dunn is a chemical agent sprayed on large
gatherings of people using technology on farming drones normally used to spray
crops.

He said: "The same technology could be used to attack a large number of people
in, for example, the Birmingham City stadium during a football match.

"The terrorist could get the drone to hover over one section of the supporters
and spray them with chemicals.

"Another way of doing it could also be to use petrol and then ignite it - with
so much vapour it would explode in a fireball."

Prof Dunn believes the UK should introduce anti-drone defence systems at
airports.

A spokeswoman for Birmingham Airport said air security issues were a matter for
the Civil Aviation Authority (CAA).

The CAA can prosecute people who fly drones to aircraft, crowds or buildings.

A spokesman said the CAA's focus on drones was purely safety.

He added: "If people have concerns about a drone being flown in public, they
should call the police.

"Local police can assess the situation in real time and, if there is any
evidence of breaching the air navigation order, they will pass any information
on to us."

The European Aviation Safety Agency is developing EU-wide safety standards which
it says will be as high as those for manned aircraft.

The British Airline Pilots Association (Balpa) has called for police and the CAA
to enforce the law better and has said larger, commercial drones should be as
tightly regulated as manned aircraft.

Jim McAuslan, Balpa's general secretary, said some form of registration and
licensing scheme for drones and their owners - along the lines of the system
already in place for model aircraft or motorised gliders - was "something that
is going to have to be done" because so many people were buying drones.

LOAD-DATE: December 29, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBBP


                         Copyright 2014 Trinity Mirror
                              All Rights Reserved

                              129 of 143 DOCUMENTS



                              birminghammail.co.uk

                      December 29, 2014 Monday 1:10 PM GMT

Birmingham Airport drone attack fears;
Anti-terror exports demands safety upgrade to protect passengers

BYLINE: By Ben Hurst

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 390 words


Birmingham Airport is "highly likely" to be targeted by terrorists using drones
to try to bring down aircraft, an expert has suggested.

Prof David H Dunn, of the University of Birmingham, said there was a growing
risk of extremists using the devices to target plane engines.

Powerful drones capable of bringing down an airliner were becoming increasingly
widespread and were available for as little as £500, he added.

Prof Dunn said: "Three things make Birmingham Airport a target.

"First, it is in quite a rural location so anyone controlling the drones could
make a quick getaway.

"The flight path is also beneficial - it goes directly over heavily-populated
areas so there would be a huge opportunity to cause the maximum number of
casualties.

"Finally, most of the jets using the airport have two engines - making them much
easier to down than bigger craft with four engines.

"Taking all these together Birmingham has a large number of factors which, it
might be said, make it highly likely to be attacked."

Prof Dunn is the author of a recent report, in collaboration with Sir David
Omand, the former head of GCHQ, which called for "urgent" measures to protect
British airspace from attack.

The calls followed a near miss when a drone flew within 20ft of a packed Airbus
A320 as it landed at Heathrow in July.

Prof Dunn said he believed the UK should introduce anti-drone defence systems at
airports.

A Birmingham Airport spokeswoman said air security issues were a matter for the
Civil Aviation Authority (CAA).

It can prosecute those who fly drones near aircraft, crowds or buildings.

A CAA spokesman said: "If people have concerns about a drone being flown in
public they should call the police.

"Local police can assess the situation in real time and, if there is any
evidence of breaching the air navigation order, they will pass on any
information on to us."

The European Aviation Safety Agency is developing EU-wide safety standards,
which it said would be as high as those for manned aircraft.

The British Airline Pilots Association has called for police and the CAA to
better enforce the law, and has said that larger, commercial drones should be as
tightly regulated as manned aircraft.

Jim McAuslan, Balpa's general secretary, said a registration and licensing
scheme for drones and their owners was needed because of their growing
popularity.

LOAD-DATE: December 29, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBEM


                         Copyright 2014 Trinity Mirror
                              All Rights Reserved

                              130 of 143 DOCUMENTS


                                  Daily Mirror

                            December 29, 2014 Monday
                                   Edition 1;
                                    Ireland

MUM WAS KNIFED TO DEATH AS SHE TRIED TO SAVE HER DAUGHTER'S LIFE;
HORROR AS MAN KILLS WIFE AND HIMSELF 21-yr-old girl in hospital after stab
attack by her father Sister's terror as she finds parents' bodies at home

BYLINE: GARRETH MacNAMEE

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 4,5

LENGTH: 719 words


A MUM was stabbed to death trying to protect her daughter from her
knife-wielding dad yesterday.

Gardai believe Valerie Greaney lost her life at the hands of husband Michael
after he pulled a blade on 21-year-old Michelle.

It is understood the mum of two rushed to protect her daughter but Michael then
turned the knife on his wife, stabbing her to death at the family home in Cobh,
Co Cork.

The dad then stabbed himself as Valerie lay on the floor in their house on
O'Neill's Place.

Michelle, who had recently graduated from University College Cork, ran from the
house and was found collapsed in a nearby graveyard.

The couple's younger daughter raised the alarm after she discovered the
bloodbath.

She was unhurt but has been left extremely traumatised.

Emergency services arrived at the scene at around 3.30pm yesterday.

They began CPR on Michelle as she was rushed to Cork University Hospital with
critical injuries.

She was operated on and was fighting for her life last night.

Businessman Michael had suffered mental health issues in the past. It is
understood he was admitted to the Central Mental Hospital in South Dublin
following an incident in May last year involving his daughter.

A barring order was placed against the respected physical therapist in the
aftermath of the incident but it is believed that was removed at the request of
the family.

A security source told the Irish Mirror: "The father had a serious mental health
issue. It's not a case at all that he lost his temper and lashed out violently.

"That's something that is being stressed by those who knew him.

"The Greaneys are a very well respected and popular family in Cobh.

"An incident like this, especially at Christmas, will shock the community."

The family had suffered a tragedy four weeks previously when Valerie's mother
passed away.

The younger daughter, who raised the alarm in the early afternoon, is receiving
specialist psychological treatment.

The insider added: "Everything will be done for this young girl. She has been
through something most of us thankfully will never see.

"There would have been blood everywhere. It doesn't bear thinking about really.
It's horrific."

Michael was a keen rower in his youth and won three All-Ireland medals in the
sport for coastal rowing. He set up his physical therapy business with his wife
after suffering various injuries throughout his sporting career.

The business, based in Cobh, has been open and thriving since 1998.

Michael had also been a tutor at the Irish Institute of Physical Therapy for the
past 11 years.

Valerie was a receptionist in the physical therapy business for a number of
years but recently started working in Gills chipper in Cobh.

Michael was involved in the church in the town and served communion at Cobh
Cathedral on Christmas Day in his role as a eucharistic minister.

Shocked neighbours gathered around the family home yesterday as the community
was united in grief. Gardai had confirmed to them that they were not looking for
anyone else in relation to the tragedy.

Local Fine Gael councillor Sinead Sheppard said locals have been left devastated
by the horrific incident.

She added: "We are a very tight-knit community here so the news is absolutely
shocking.

"It's a very quiet place in general where everyone would know everyone.

"It's just a devastating thing to hit the area. You hear about this kind of
thing happening everywhere else but you don't expect it to arrive at your
doorstep.

"This is a time of year when you should be celebrating with your family. For
something like this to happen on our doorsteps here is nothing short of
shocking.

I would like to take this chance to extend my sincerest sympathies to all those
who knew the deceased."

The scene of the killings was sealed off as forensic teams conducted a full
Garda technical examination.

The office of the State Pathologist was also notified of the tragic incident and
Deputy State Pathologist Margot Bolster arrived at the scene last night.

The community in Cobh had also been left reeling after the brutal knife murder
of Jack Barry in London.

The builder, who was in his 50s and originally from the town, was stabbed to
death by a gang trying to access his apartment block earlier this month.

garreth.macnamee@irishmirror.ie

The sister would've seen her parents lying there dead SECURITY SOURCE CO CORK
YESTERDAY

LOAD-DATE: December 29, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: SCENE Gardai cordon off area Cobh, Co CorkDEAD Valerie killed trying to
help MichelleDEAD Michael had serious mental health issuesCRITICAL Michelle
Greaney on her graduation day and, below, on holiday

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DMR


                            Copyright 2014 MGN Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              131 of 143 DOCUMENTS



                                  The Guardian

                      December 29, 2014 Monday 3:07 PM GMT

The Super Bowl doesn't need terrorism insurance. Here's why;
The Terrorism Risk Insurance Act provides protection in case of a 9/11-style
terror attack - and it expires 31 December. Good riddance, writes David Dayen,
who says the bill lines the coffers of big business, big banks and a handful of
insurersNew $40bn terrorism insurance law is full of gifts to corporations

BYLINE: David Dayen

SECTION: BUSINESS

LENGTH: 1164 words


In its final week, the 113th US Congress managed to pass a spending bill loaded
with policy giveaways to special interests, and a year-long extension of mostly
corporate tax breaks.

But they couldn't finish off the lobbyist Triple Crown. There was one task
Congress couldn't tackle: approve an extension of the Terrorist Risk Insurance
Act, known as TRIA. The bill provides lucrative government bailout protection
for the insurance industry in case of a terrorist attack like 9/11 or, as
Hollywood has feared, retribution for American entertainment choices by North
Korea.

Although both Democrats and Republicans, motivated by fear of terrorism and
support for commercial real estate developers and insurance companies, mostly
favored extending TRIA, it failed to get through the Senate. That's partly due
to unrelated policy changes attached to the bill, and partly because - get this
- Congress wanted to go home early for the holidays.

This means that on 31 December, TRIA will expire.

Good riddance.

TRIA was sold as a temporary program and not a permanent bailout guarantee for a
wealthy industry with lots of clout in Washington. For the most part, only
conservatives opposed to "crony capitalism" have raised questions about TRIA.
But everyone should question the need for giant subsidies that the insurance
industry doesn't even have to pay for.

Unfortunately, both the insurance industry and big businesses, who pay lower
premiums because of the bailout guarantee, support TRIA. And you can be sure
they will flood the new Congress with lobbyists to demand a restoration of the
program.

Big developers and insurers have freaked out over losing this cushion, warning
even of a cancellation of the Super Bowl, but we may soon find that life can go
on without the government guaranteeing a market for a large, profitable business
sector.

Maybe some good old-fashioned American innovation will ensure that TRIA,
initially sold as a temporary program, stays expired.

I explained TRIA for the Guardian back in June. Under the program, insurers must
offer terrorism policies for commercial developments like skyscrapers and
arenas, but they don't have to pay damages above a certain threshold. The
government can then recoup those costs later with a 3% surcharge on annual
premiums.

In the 12 years since its inception in 2002, insurers have made roughly $40bn
from government-guaranteed terrorism insurance, without having to pay a dime on
any claim or give the government anything in exchange for that backstop.

Before the final machinations, it looked like TRIA would be fast-tracked for
extension, as it has been twice before. The House and Senate crafted bipartisan
coalitions to extend TRIA, and this month the House financial services committee
chairman, Jeb Hensarling of Texas, and Senator Chuck Schumer of New York came
together in principle on compromise legislation.

The deal would have maintained the program for six more years and would have
raised the threshold for the government to begin paying out terrorism insurance
claims from $100m to $200m. Fiscally conservative Republicans like Hensarling
had sought a threshold as high as $500m, to reduce government's exposure to
claims. But he accepted the compromise.

Negotiators were all set to stick the TRIA extension into the must-pass
CRomnibus budget bill. But Hensarling decided to attach to TRIA another rollback
of the Dodd-Frank law, which would relieve non-financial companies of having to
follow the same rules as banks on the derivatives they purchase, including the
posting of collateral for every trade.

Hensarling described this as a technical change and pointed out how Democrats
once supported it. But Schumer blasted the inclusion of an unrelated policy
rider - not unlike those that filled the CRomnibus.

The House passed the Hensarling version of TRIA with the Dodd-Frank change
before it left town, dropping extension in the Senate's lap. Despite Senate
Democrats' insistence that they would not put Hensarling's version up for a
vote, the majority leader, Harry Reid, did try to quickly pass the bill on 17
December.

But outgoing Republican senator Tom Coburn of Oklahoma objected to unanimous
consent to advance the bill in opposition to an entirely different provision
which maintained a national insurance agent licensing board. Instead of
fighting, Reid decided to drop the bill, and wrapped up the congressional
session for the year.

Coburn could not kill TRIA by himself. His objection merely meant that the
Senate would have had to go through the time-consuming process of cloture votes
to break filibusters, as they do on other legislation. The House version of TRIA
passed the chamber 417-7; it's highly likely that 60 votes were available to
pass it in the Senate.

So Coburn didn't really stop TRIA - Democrats chose not to pursue it: because
they were peeved about the Dodd-Frank rider, because it would take too much
time, and because everyone really wanted to get back home for the holidays. If a
terrorism insurance backstop were of such monumental importance to the country,
one would think the Senate would delay its vacation a few days.

At the time Reid said: "Senator McConnell can bring TRIA up on the first day of
the new Senate, and I hope he will since there is no time to waste." But perhaps
a better solution would be to see how the insurance industry adapts to losing
the government guarantee.

For example, reinsurers - the companies that insure insurance companies - could
actually try to model the risk of a terrorist attack, as they said they would in
2002, and price terrorism coverage accordingly.

Or states could band together to create risk pools that would kick in to handle
the issue. Or the program could be taken out of the hands of the industry and
made completely public, with the federal government taking in premiums and
paying out claims themselves, eliminating the middleman.

Regardless, trade groups have already stepped up the pressure. Thomas Bisacquino
of the Commercial Real Estate Development Association said in a statement on
Wednesday: "We hope the President and the new Congress will make renewal of TRIA
the first order of business when they return in January."

But perhaps the expiration of TRIA can shed some light on its necessity.

Supporters claim new real estate development will collapse without affordable
terrorism coverage; let's see if that's the case. They argue that the economy
will suffer; we can certainly find out. They claim that no other solution but a
government guarantee exists; we can test that theory.

In fact, we already have some evidence that the industry caterwauling is
overblown: the NFL has said they will not need to cancel the Super Bowl in the
wake of the failure to pass TRIA, despite news reports to that effect.

Congress rarely gets the chance to run a natural experiment on whether the
policies they enact make sense in the real world. The bungling of TRIA provides
that opportunity. It's up to them whether or not they seize it.

LOAD-DATE: December 29, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBGNS


  Copyright 2014 The Guardian, a division of Transcontinental Media Group Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              132 of 143 DOCUMENTS



                              The Herald (Glasgow)

                            December 29, 2014 Monday

Royal guards withdrawn behind gates amid fears of a 'lone wolf' terror attack

BYLINE: Caroline Woollard

SECTION: Pg. 2

LENGTH: 347 words


SECURITY chiefs and Buckingham Palace have withdrawn Royal Guards behind
railings and fences, amid fears of a "lone wolf" terror attack on one of the
ceremonial troops responsible for manning positions at the Royal Palaces.

The guards are trained soldiers, but their weapons are usually unloaded and they
are believed to be potentially vulnerable to a terror attack. The move comes in
the wake of calls by Islamic State representatives for strikes against Britain
by followers, while groups linked to Al Qaeda have encouraged supporters to take
part in individual actions against the UK.

It is believed intelligence agencies may have picked up internet chatter about
the highly visible Royal Guards, with their bearskin hats and scarlet uniforms,
and they are thought to be at risk as terrorists may see them as relatively
unprotected, yet high profile targets.

Guards have been moved from the front gates of St James's palace in London to a
courtyard within the palace, while others at Prince Charles' official residence
Clarence House have been relocated to a new site within the gates.

Meanwhile armed police unit have now been installed to guard the guards at other
locations, including Windsor Castle, where Life Guards on foot and horseback are
now protected by up to four Metropolitan Police officers armed with assault
rifles and pistols.

In most cases the changes have significantly reduced the visibility of the
troops to tourists and other visitors.

The move is thought to be in response to the killing of soldier Lee Rigby
outside Woolwich Barracks in May last year as well as the shooting of Canadian
sentry Nathan Cirillo, 24, outside the Ottawa National War Memorial, by mentally
disturbed drug user Michael Zehaf-Bibeau, who had recently converted to Islam.

Chloe Howard, deputy editor of royal family blog Royal Central, said: "It is a
shame as it denies the public the chance of seeing these well-known uniforms
that are part of the British identity. Some may think it is a retreat."

A spokesman for the Ministry of Defence said: "We routinely review security
arrangements."

LOAD-DATE: March 26, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: HER


                      Copyright 2014 Newsquest Media Group
                              All Rights Reserved

                              133 of 143 DOCUMENTS



                                  M2 PressWIRE

                            December 29, 2014 Monday

U.S. Condemns Terrorist Attack in Iraq

LENGTH: 129 words


December 24, 2014

Jen Psaki

Department Spokesperson Washington, DC

The United States strongly condemns the suicide attack today in Madaen, Iraq,
which took the lives of a number of anti-ISIL fighters as they gathered to
receive government salaries. We extend our condolences to the families of the
victims and hope for a rapid recovery for those who were injured.



As Iraqis unite against ISIL and turn the tide on the battlefield, ISIL will
continue to resort to such vicious and desperate acts as cowardly suicide
attacks and other atrocities to try to maintain its reign of fear.

The United States will continue to stand with the Government of Iraq and the
Iraqi people against violent extremists, and to support their continued progress
towards building a unified Iraq.

LOAD-DATE: December 29, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newswire

JOURNAL-CODE: M2PW


                      Copyright 2014 Normans Media Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              134 of 143 DOCUMENTS



                                   MailOnline

                      December 29, 2014 Monday 9:54 PM GMT

Invasion of the SKUNKS: Upscale neighborhood terrorized by furry critters who
are attacking residents

BYLINE: MAILONLINE REPORTER

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 288 words



     ·    Just one homeowner in Granite Bay, California, has managed to capture
          more than 10 skunks in his property
     ·    Others baited the little menaces with eggs and peanut butter to trap
          them
     ·    Animal control says the skunks need to find new food sources after the
          dry summer and heavy rainfall greatly diminished their usual stocks


A gang of stinking skunks has been terrorizing an upscale California
neighborhood, destroying lawns and spraying residents as they try to get the
animals away from their posh homes.

Homeowner Vince Matranga says he's trapped several skunks using eggs and peanut
butter as bait  - and one neighbor has managed to capture more than 10 just in
his Granite Bay property.

'When you think you catch them all then another wave of skunks come in,' Vince
Matranga told CBS Sacramento.

'They're digging up my grass,' he added. 'They're looking for grubs and insects
and making a big mess.'

Matrangas says the animals are fierce and won't back down from a fight.

'I got a little too close a few times and got sprayed...just threw those clothes
away,' the frustrated resident told CBS Sacramento.

And when Matranga manages to get rid of one skunk, it seems another is just
around the corner.

'There's one here looking right at me,' he told CBS Sacramento.

Brandt Jordan, of Spiderman Pest Control, told the station that the skunks are
spreading out.

'Folsom, Granite Bay - a lot of outlying areas, Loomis,' he told CBS Sacramento.
'Anywhere where there's open pastures, we're getting calls for that.'

Jordan says the invasion could be a result of California's dry summer followed
by heavy rainfall, which greatly diminished food stocks for the animals.

Animal control is picking up cages with the trapped skunks throughout this week.



LOAD-DATE: December 29, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDM


                   Copyright 2014 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              135 of 143 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                      December 29, 2014 Monday 2:11 PM GMT

Watch: Queen's Guard move behind palace gates due to terror risk;
Soldiers guarding key Royal residences in London have been withdrawn from their
high-profile posts amid fears they could be targeted in terror attacks

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 66 words


The Queen's Guards have been moved from their traditional posts outside the
country's palaces as fears grow over Islamist fanatics' plans to target them.

Royal Guards have been removed from their sentry boxes, now standing behind
locked gates or fences.

Buckingham Palace, along with the police, decided to move the guards to make
them less of an easy target for potential Isil-inspired attackers .

LOAD-DATE: December 29, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTNS


                  Copyright 2014 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              136 of 143 DOCUMENTS


                                Birmingham Post

                           December 30, 2014 Tuesday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

Airport is 'ideal target' for terror drone attack;
Unique position could attract extremists to use drones as planes take off

BYLINE: Ben Hurst

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 698 words


BIRMINGHAM Airport is "highly likely" to be targeted by terrorists using drones
to try and bring down aircraft, an expert has claimed.

Prof David H Dunn, of the University of Birmingham said there was a growing risk
of extremists using the flying devices to try and crash into the engines of
planes taking off.

And he said powerful drones capable of bringing down an airliner are becoming
increasingly widespread and could be bought by terrorists for as little as £500
- £1,000.

Prof Dunn is author of a recent report, in collaboration with Sir David Omand,
the former head of GCHQ, which called for "urgent" measures to protect British
airspace from attack.

The calls follow a near miss when a drone flew within 20ft of a packed Airbus
A320 as it landed at Heathrow Airport in July.

According to Prof Dunn, the best way to carry out a deliberate attack would be
to try and co-ordinate a "screen" of drones on the flightpath which the pilots
wouldn't see until too late.

He revealed the location of Birmingham Airport makes it ideal for such an
attack.

Prof Dunn said: "There are three things which make Birmingham Airport a target
for a terrorist drone attack.

"First, it is in quite a rural location, so that anyone controlling the drones
could make a quick getaway - somewhere like Heathrow you're surrounded by things
like the M25.

"At Birmingham the flight path is also beneficial - it goes directly over
heavily populated areas so there would be a huge opportunity to cause the
maximum number of casualties.

"Finally there is also the fact that most of the jets using the airport have two
engines - this makes them much easier to bring down than the bigger aircraft
with four engines.

"Taking all these together Birmingham has a large number of factors which, it
might be said, make it highly likely to be attacked."

The professor said the "robotics revolution" meant the use of drones was going
to become increasingly widespread.

He revealed farmers would use them to patrol their land, spot animals in
difficulty, broken fences and crops needing watering.

He explained technology advances meant they could be programmed to follow flight
paths using global positioning systems.

He added that simply crashing into aircraft wasn't the only way terrorists could
use drones for an attack.

One chilling scenario feared by Prof Dunn is a chemical agent sprayed on large
gatherings of people using technology on farming drones normally used to spray
crops.

He said: "The same technology could be used to attack a large number of people
in, for example the Birmingham City stadium during a football match.

"The terrorist could get the drone to hover over one section of the supporters
and spray them with chemicals.

"Another way of doing it could also be to use petrol and then ignite it - with
so much vapour it would explode in a fireball."

Prof Dunn believes the UK should introduce anti-drone defence systems at
airports.

A spokeswoman for Birmingham Airport said air security issues were a matter for
the Civil Aviation Authority (CAA).

The CAA can prosecute people who fly drones to aircraft, crowds or buildings.

A spokesman said the CAA's focus on drones was purely safety.

He added: "If people have concerns about a drone being flown in public they
should call the police.

"Local police can assess the situation in real time and, if there is any
evidence of breaching the air navigation order, they will pass any information
on to us."

The European Aviation Safety Agency is developing EU-wide safety standards,
which it says will be as high as those for manned aircraft.

The British Airline Pilots Association (Balpa), has called for police and the
CAA to better enforce the law, and has said that larger, commercial drones
should be as tightly regulated as manned aircraft.

Jim McAuslan, Balpa's general secretary, said some form of registration and
licensing scheme for drones and their owners - along the lines of the system
already in place for model aircraft or motorised gliders - was "something that
is going to have to be done" because so many people were buying drones.

Birmingham has a large number of factors which, it might be said, make it highly
likely to be attackedProfessor David H Dunn, right

LOAD-DATE: December 30, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Birmingham <B Airport has several factors which could make it ideal for
terrorists attempting to fly a drone into a plane's engines

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: BMP


               Copyright 2014 Midland Independent Newspapers plc
                              All Rights Reserved

                              137 of 143 DOCUMENTS


                     Daily Echo (Newsquest Regional Press)

                           December 30, 2014 Tuesday

'Night terrors' attacker threatened to kill girlfriend's brother

BYLINE: John Hoskins

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 288 words


A Hampshire man crashed through banisters at his home in a middle-of-the-night
fracas with his sister's boyfriend.

Adam Swan and his partner had been having a barbecue with the other couple and
all had been drinking before they went to bed.

But Southampton Crown Court heard Mr Swan was woken by noises from an adjoining
bedroom and found Roy Fletcher, who suffers from night terrors, on top of Mr
Swan's sister, Lara.

Prosecutor Eleanor Fargin said Mr Swan pulled Fletcher away but Fletcher then
rugby-tackled him and Mr Swan, from Romsey, went through the banisters.

He went back upstairs where Fletcher was holding a screwdriver.

Fletcher shouted at his girlfriend "It's all your fault", the court heard,
before he threw it towards her and went downstairs, arming himself with a pair
of scissors.

Locking himself in a bathroom, the court was told he shouted: "If you come in,
I'll kill you."

Ms Fargin said Fletcher was arrested, handcuffed and put in a police car, but
ran off. Officers chased him for 150 yards before he was recaptured.

The court heard he had caused more than £1,100 damage to the carpet and other
fittings in the house and that Mr Swan received four stitches at Southampton
General Hospital for a cut face.

Fletcher, 26, of Cherry Tree Court, Eastleigh, admitted affray and obstruction.

He received a 14-month suspended sentence coupled with an 18-month supervision
order, and was told to pay £339 compensation to Mr Swan.

In mitigation, Richard Martin told the court that a psychiatric assessment
revealed Fletcher suffered from post-traumatic stress disorder. He was also
dealing with his drink and cannabis misuse.

Passing sentence, Judge Peter Henry told Fletcher he needed therapy for his
psychological problems.

LOAD-DATE: December 30, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2014 NewsQuest Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              138 of 143 DOCUMENTS



                                   MailOnline

                     December 30, 2014 Tuesday 4:27 PM GMT

Pakistani 'mastermind' bailed over Mumbai terror attacks is rearrested for
kidnapping - days after country hit out at U.S. TV show Homeland for being
portrayed as a haven for terrorists

BYLINE: CHRIS PLEASANCE FOR MAILONLINE

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 519 words



     ·    Zaki-ur-Rahman Lakhvi was due to be released on bail earlier today
     ·    Judge ruled there was not enough evidence to hold him over Mumbai plot
     ·    But police rearrested him this morning as he was accused of kidnap


Police in Pakistan have re-arrested the terrorist leader believed to be behind
the Mumbai terror attacks in 2008 which left 166 people dead.

Zaki-ur-Rahman Lakhvi had been due to leave jail today after a judge granted him
bail on December 18, but was immediately rearrested by authorities on another
case, his lawyer said.

Lakhvi is one of seven suspects being tried by Pakistan in connection with the
attacks, which involved four days of bombings and gunmen taking hostages in the
city's Taj Mahal Hotel.

He was due to be released just days after Pakistani officials rebuked the makers
of U.S. series Homeland for depicting the capital Islamabad as a 'hellhole' full
of terrorists.

Scroll down for video

Officials scenes showing bombs going off in Islamabad and bodies scattered
through the streets were an 'insult', adding that 'nothing could be further from
the truth'.

Over the weekend Indian officials also branded Pakistan as a 'haven for
terrorists' as news of Lakhvi's immediate release from jail spread, saying
officials had 'strong concerns' over the decision.

Appearing in court in Islamabad amid tight security, Lakhvi today told reporters
that he would accept whatever God intended for him.

Police inspector Mohammed Arshad told the court that someone had filed a
complaint at a police station on the Islamabad outskirts saying that Lakhvi had
abducted his brother-in-law to wage 'jihad' six and a half years ago.

The judge granted a police request for time to investigate the accusation,
extending Lakhvi's detention for two days.

However, Rizwan Abbasi, Lakhvi's lawyer, called it a tactic to '....deprive my
client of the fundamental right of liberty.'

On December 18 a judge at the country's anti-terror court had agreed to grant
Lakhvi bail saying there was a lack of evidence to justify holding him.

The move had angered and embarrassed government officials as they had just vowed
to crack down on terror groups following the Peshawar school attack days
earlier.

The fresh assault, in which 132 schoolchildren died, provoked a harsh
condemnation from India, which has repeatedly said Pakistan is not doing enough
to stop terror groups.

Despite efforts by Pakistan's legal chiefs to keep Lakhvi behind bars, a judge
on Monday said there was no reason to detain him, and asked him to post bail.

Pakistani television reported that senior officials met last night at the
Interior Ministry to discuss the case, before Lakhvi was arrested hours later.

Lakhvi is one of the leaders of Lashkar-e-Taiba, a terror group whose name
translates as Army of the Righteous, which accepted responsibility for the
Mumbai attacks.

Over the course of four days members of Lashkar-e-Taiba detonated bombs at busy
locations around the city, while gunmen took hostages inside the iconic Taj
Mahal Hotel.

In total 166 people were killed, while another 300 were wounded, dramatically
worsening relations between India and Pakistan.

LOAD-DATE: December 30, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDM


                   Copyright 2014 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              139 of 143 DOCUMENTS


                            Manchester Evening News

                           December 30, 2014 Tuesday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

Boxing champ prays at massacre horror school;
Sportsman vows to help rebuild the school which was devastated by recent
terrorist attack .

BYLINE: Todd Fitzgerald

SECTION: LETTERS; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 372 words


BOXER Amir Khan paid a visit to the site of the Peshawar massacre after vowing
to help rebuild the Army Public School devastated by a terrorist attack. Khan
flew to Pakistan to lend his support before Christmas, condemning the attacks as
'absolutely horrific and sickening'.

Yesterday he visited the school, praying at the site of the attack and talking
to young survivors, whom he encouraged to return to school. Last week he donated
to the school the pair of shorts - worth £30,000 with a waistband made from
24-carat gold threading - he wore in his recent victory against American Devon
Alexander.

The former world light welterweight champion and Olympic silver medallist, who
is of Pakistani heritage, has promised to do all he can to help rebuild the
school where 148 pupils and staff died at the hands of the Pakistani Taliban
earlier this month.

Khan, 28, told Pakistan's Dawn News: "I have come here to help and show my
support.

I want to help rebuild the school and strengthen security around the area.

"I also want to give people hope in Pakistan, give them support in education and
in sport. Children must be scared to go back to school.

The onus is on us to instil confidence in them.

"It's very upsetting to see so many children's pictures up on the walls that
were killed. These are innocent children who haven't done anything to anybody.

"Talking about this stuff could be threatening for me, but I just want to speak
the truth and tell people what is happening is wrong.

"I think it will send a statement to a lot of people that Amir Khan has come
here to make a difference. For now, all we can do is pray for the victims'
families and hope terrorist attacks do not happen again."

Before the visit, Khan met the Pakistan Army's chief of army staff, General
Raheel Sharif, at the General Headquarters in Rawalpindi.

He commended the army for its efforts to fight terrorism in the country.

The Bolton favourite also announced he is set to build a boxing academy in
Lahore.

He tweeted: "Big announcement - the 1st Amir Khan Academy will be in Lahore
Pakistan.

It will be ready in July 2015."

Khan's wife Faryal has said she aims to teach her husband Urdu ready for his
next visit to Pakistan.

www.manchestereveningnews.co.uk SEE VIDEO AT?

LOAD-DATE: December 30, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Boxer Amir Khan in Pakistan.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: MEN


                     Copyright 2014 Manchester Evening News
                              All Rights Reserved

                              140 of 143 DOCUMENTS



                                  The Guardian

                    December 31, 2014 Wednesday 2:45 PM GMT

2014 revealed the insecurity behind China's economic might;
Hong Kong protests, terrorist attacks and a crackdown on corruption by Xi
Jinping characterised the year for China

BYLINE: Jonathan Kaiman

SECTION: WORLD NEWS

LENGTH: 967 words


On Sunday 28 September, Hong Kong exploded. Pro-democracy protesters barricaded
major roads, as riot police tried in vain to disperse them with teargas. The
former British colony had been tightly wound for months over Beijing's rising
influence. Still, the protests' scale and intensity came as a shock to many. All
it took was one decree - the central government announcing that it would
restrict nominations for the city's next top leader - for the city to unravel.

Hong Kong's so-called Umbrella Movement raged for more than two months, as
umbrella-wielding protesters clashed with riot police. But for many
China-watchers, those first few days offered one of the year's clearest signs:
that the country's economic might and ruthless political machinery mask a deeper
insecurity.

"A single spark can light a prairie fire," Mao Zedong wrote in 1930. Xi Jinping,
China's president, sees sparks everywhere: in the country's ubiquitous
corruption, its polluted water and air, its slowing economy. Whereas Mao kindled
them, Xi has spent much of his early tenure trying to stamp them out.

This year, Xi cemented a reputation as China's most powerful ruler since Deng
Xiaoping, primarily by way of his sprawling anti-graft campaign. By September,
anti-corruption authorities had netted hundreds of officials for taking bribes,
promoting friends and keeping mistresses. Earlier this month they arrested the
former security tsar Zhou Yongkang - the highest-ranking official to be
investigated for graft in party history.

Simultaneously, Xi presided over the biggest crackdown on freedom of speech in
recent memory, posing an important question: can a political system that
fostered endemic corruption also root it out? Authorities arrested scores of
activists, including the prominent legal scholar Xu Zhiyong. Xu led the New
Citizens' Movement, a grassroots organisation that promoted government
transparency. His four-year sentence held a chilling lesson: that nothing
trumped the party's obsession with control, even its own ideals.

Xi also positioned himself as a foreign policy president, often to his
neighbours' chagrin, as China aggressively asserts its territorial claims in the
South and East China seas. On 1 May, China placed an oil rig close to Vietnam's
coast, triggering a tense maritime standoff. Weeks later, Vietnamese workers
rioted, killing five people and scorching Chinese-owned factories. Relations
between the two countries have yet to recover.

China found itself at the centre of another international incident when, in the
early hours of 8 March, the Beijing-bound Malaysia Airlines flight Mhl0 vanished
an hour after taking off from Kuala Lumpur. Around two-thirds of the 227
passengers on board were Chinese. Nine months later, despite a massive
international search effort, people are still waiting for answers.

China will remember 2014 as a year of terror. On 1 March, black-clad assailants
killed 29 people with knives and machetes at a train station in the
south-western city of Kunming. The attackers were Muslim Uighurs from
north-western Xinjiang. It was - although the region is frequently beset by
ethnic violence - the first time Uighurs had been accused of orchestrating a
major attack outside the province's borders.

The country was horrified - state media called the incident "China's 9/11".
Authorities responded by declaring a "people's war" against terror, putting much
of Xinjiang under virtual martial law. Beijing tightened restrictions on what it
considered symbols of religious extremism: beards, veils, fasting during the
holy month of Ramadan. Since then, violence has only worsened - in May, an
attack on a market in Xinjiang's capital, Urumqi, killed 45 people. Attacks in
Xinjiang's Shache county killed nearly 100 people on 28 July, and another 15 in
November. On 21 September, another attack in dusty Luntai county left another 50
people dead.

In September, authorities sentenced Ilham Tohti, a former economics professor at
the prestigious Minzu University of China, to life imprisonment on charges of
"separatism"; they confiscated his assets, leaving his wife and two children
penniless. Human rights groups called the prosecution of a leading Uighur
academic a "travesty of justice" that underscores the government's unwillingness
to field even moderate forms of dissent.

China also cracked down on foreign businesses, raising fears of xenophobia and
economic nationalism. Authorities raided many firms, ostensibly for violating a
six-year-old anti-monopoly law: Microsoft, Qualcomm, Daimler, Audi, Mercedes
Benz, and a dozen Japanese auto-parts makers. They fined the British
pharmaceuticals giant GlaxoSmithKline $465m for bribing Chinese doctors and
hospital officials to sell its drugs.

Meanwhile, Chinese firms flourished abroad. In October, an obscure Chinese
insurance company bought New York's famous Waldorf Astoria hotel. The Chinese
tech giant Alibaba floated on the New York Stock Exchange the month before - the
biggest debut in history, with the company valued at $230bn. "We want to be
bigger than Walmart," Jack Ma, the company's English-speaking founder, said as
he rang the NYSE's opening bell.

June marked the 25th anniversary of the crackdown on pro-democracy protest in
Tiananmen Square. Authorities scrubbed all mention of the incident from the
internet and detained more than 40 journalists, lawyers, scholars and activists
for commemorating the event. Among them was Pu Zhiqiang, the human rights lawyer
who once represented the dissident artist Ai Weiwei. Perhaps he and the many
other Chinese dissidents detained in 2014 would find some solace in Ma's words:
"Today is cruel," the entrepreneur famously said in 2004. "Tomorrow will be
crueller. But the day after tomorrow will be beautiful. Most people can't see
the day after tomorrow."

LOAD-DATE: December 31, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBGNS


  Copyright 2014 The Guardian, a division of Transcontinental Media Group Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              141 of 143 DOCUMENTS



                                    Scotsman

                          December 31, 2014 Wednesday

North Sea counter-terror attack plan revealed

BYLINE: David Maddox

LENGTH: 391  words


CONCERNS over a terrorist attack on a North Sea platform led the UK Government
to organise a full scale rehearsal of taking back an oil rig with special forces
called "Operation Smoked Salmon" newly released government papers have revealed.

The papers from 1979 released today under the 25 year rule by the National
Archive reveal that there was also a memorandum on joint security with the
Norwegians.

CONNECT WITH THE SCOTSMAN

o {http://bit.ly/1yHJ7dx| Subscribe to our daily newsletter (requires
registration) | Link to newsletter sign up} and get the latest news, sport and
business headlines delivered to your inbox every morning

o You can also follow us on {http://on.fb.me/1yHJHb5 | Facebook | Link to The
Scotsman's Facebook page}, {http://bit.ly/1zJcWhW | Twitter | Link to The
Scotsman's Twitter page} and {http://bit.ly/1pYaV87 | Google + | Link to The
Scotsman's Google+ page}

The papers should that Mrs Thatcher decided not to attend Operation Smoked
Salmon although she was present for another test run at an atomic power station
called Exercise Martock.

o
{http://www.scotsman.com/news/uk/tories-used-scotland-as-poll-tax-guinea-pig-1-3
646489 | Tories used Scotland as poll tax guinea pig' | link to article}

In a minute on 3 December 1979 to the Prime Minister, Smoked Salmon was
described as "a series of command and control exercises designed to test counter
terrorist contingency arrangements for use in any incident involving offshore
oil and gas installations".

In another letter dated 23 February 1983 from the Foreign Office to Downing
Street, it noted that talks on security cooperation with Norway began at the end
of 1978.

It noted that "the Norwegian Government have been particularly anxious to
improve cooperation."

The two governments were studying "legal and political aspects of cooperation,
particularly cooperation involving the use of armed forces or police of one
country within the jurisdiction of the other."

SCOTSMAN TABLET AND IPHONE APPS

o Download your free 30-day trial for our {http://bit.ly/RIA37r | iPad | Link to
iTunes}, {http://bit.ly/1wFFxkF | Android | Link to the Android store} and
{http://amzn.to/1wCOXwp | Kindle | Link to Amazon store} apps

o {http://bit.ly/ZqN0Hr | Keep up to date with all aspects of Scottish life with
The Scotsman iPhone app, completely free to download and use | Link to iTunes}

LOAD-DATE: December 31, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: STTS


                       Copyright 2014 Johnston Press Plc
                              All Rights Reserved

                              142 of 143 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring Middle East - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                            January 1, 2015 Thursday

Yemeni government denounces Ibb terrorist attack

LENGTH: 145 words


Text of report in English by state-run Yemeni news agency Saba website

Aden, 31 December - The government strongly denounced the terrorist bombing took
place in Ibb city Wednesday [31 December] and killed around 23 people and
injured other 48.

In it cabinet meeting held in Aden on Wednesday, the government listened t
clarification from interior minister on the criminal attack targeted people in
the Cultural Centre while celebrating the Prophet Muhammad's Birthday.

The cabinet noted that the security forces, which have started measures to
unearth the aftermaths of the terrorist attack, will ultimately reach the
perpetrators and those who stand behind them.

The government expressed condolences to families of the victims and injured
people and asserted to do its duty towards the injured.

Source: Yemen News Agency Saba website, Sanaa, in English 2025 gmt 31 Dec 14

LOAD-DATE: January 1, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2015 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              143 of 143 DOCUMENTS



                                  The Guardian

                     January 1, 2015 Thursday 11:00 AM GMT

When it comes to surveillance, there is everything to play for;
Against a backdrop of hacks and terror attacks, it's possible that surveillance
powers will be further strengthened

BYLINE: James Ball

SECTION: COMMENT IS FREE

LENGTH: 415 words


Looking back at 2014 from the perspective of a surveillance reformer is a short
and dispiriting task: almost nothing good happened.

The UK passed "emergency" legislation, referred to as the Drip Act, expanding
mass surveillance powers in the wake of European court judgments. In the US,
modest reforms to domestic mass surveillance failed to pass Congress. Ireland
retrospectively made legal UK mass surveillance efforts related to the country,
while even Germany - one of the most outspoken nations on surveillance - has
challenged Der Spiegel's reporting of the tapping of Angela Merkel's phone.

On surveillance, 2014 was the year the administration struck back. But while the
Conservative party in the UK has made it clear it would like to further extend
surveillance powers, both sides of the Atlantic might find next year a closer
fight than they would think. Two key pieces of legislation authorising
surveillance are coming up for renewal. Most important is the Patriot Act, which
must be renewed by 1 June, or else go out of force - taking with it the NSA's
collection of US phone details.

In the UK, the major parties have pledged to re-examine the critical Ripa
legislation, which authorises most UK mass-surveillance programmes, after the
election - and have to renew the Drip legislation by the end of 2016. The other
key place to watch will be the courts: there are multiple challenges in UK
tribunals, the Organisation for Economic Cooperation and Development, the
European court of justice, and several cases attempting to get the US supreme
court to make its first surveillance rulings since Edward Snowden's leaks.

The technological backdrop is similarly mixed: in the immediate wake of Snowden,
a flurry of new companies promising privacy arose, but there's not yet a
definitive app, while incumbents such as Tor have revealed several attacks and
security breaches (since fixed). Conversely, though, major players are starting
to regard privacy as a selling point: Google and others are encrypting ever more
of their traffic, and even enhancing privacy controls over which information the
search and social giants store.

So it's all to play for in the year ahead. Against a backdrop of high-profile
hacks and terror attacks in western cities, it's conceivable that surveillance
powers will be strengthened. But the post-Snowden reform movement still has
momentum, and there's every chance that documents from Snowden or some other
whistleblower could influence the debate in 2015.

LOAD-DATE: January 1, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBGNS


  Copyright 2015 The Guardian, a division of Transcontinental Media Group Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved



---- End of Request ----
Download Request: Select Items: 1500-1642
Time Of Request: Wednesday, February 21, 2018  23:28:18

