



Download Request: Select Items: 1501 - 1751
Time Of Request: Wednesday, February 21, 2018  22:15:59
Send To:







Terms: terror!


Source: UK Publications
Project ID: None



                               1 of 251 DOCUMENTS



                                   The Mirror

                            November 5, 2001, Monday

WAR ON TERROR: WHERE'S FACTS ON ATTACKS

BYLINE: Allison Bray

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 17

LENGTH: 209 words

HIGHLIGHT: NO SHOW: Joe Jacob


ENERGY minister Joe Jacob still hasn't come up with a nuclear emergency
factsheet - despite being ordered to do so by the Taoiseach last month.

The blundering minister had promised the information on how to cope with a
nuclear or chemical catastrophe would be available within weeks of the September
11 attacks.

Yet almost two months after the atrocity, the public is still in the dark.

A spokeswoman for his department said: " We have an emergency plan in existence
and it's now in the final draft stages."

But she could not say when the plan will be made public.

She added: "It will be soon but I can't pinpoint a date. But what is more
important is that we have a plan that can be put in place."

She was also silent on what advice the government would give to people to
protect themselves before the factsheet is published.

She said: "People would be advised on radio, television, newspapers and the
Internet on how to deal with it."

However, she said the plan takes into account all the latest medical, scientific
and meteorological breakthroughs since the last nuclear accident plan in 1992.

It will be field-tested during a simulated accident next Saturday at the
Radiological Protection Institute of Ireland.

LOAD-DATE: November 5, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                            Copyright 2001 MGN Ltd.

                               2 of 251 DOCUMENTS

                                 Bath Chronicle

                                November 6, 2001

US Commandos injured in raid on Taliban HQ;
 STRONG RESISTANCE: Delta Force troops face counter-attack - War On Terrorism

BYLINE: Tom Kelly PA News

SECTION: News, Pg.6

LENGTH: 515 words


A COMMANDO raid on the home of Taliban leader Mullah Mohammed Omar ended in near
disaster with three American soldiers seriously injured, it was reported today.

Elite Delta Force soldiers met a ferocious counter-attack from Taliban troops
outside Kandahar, forcing them to fight their way to safety, it was claimed.

The Pentagon later boasted that the October 20 raid was a success and had shown
that special forces were able to "deploy manoeuvre and operate" inside
Afghanistan with only light resistance.

But, according to a report in the New Yorker magazine, the commandos were
ambushed by Taliban troops leaving 12 hurt, three seriously, and causing a major
rethink of the US-led Afghan campaign.

The commandos ran into heavy fire from well-armed Taliban soldiers as they
emerged from a house used by Mullah Omar, on a complex outside Kandahar in
southern Afghanistan.

They were forced to retreat to waiting helicopters and had to abandon plans to
put an undercover team into the area.

Meanwhile, US helicopter gunships have reportedly attacked Taliban military
positions near the Afghan capital Kabul.

American military chiefs have not confirmed that helicopters have been used at
any point in the campaign and refused to comment on the claims.

But residential areas were hit along with military installations, according to
the Taliban-aligned Afghan Islamic Press.

Washington confirmed a "couple more" teams of US ground troops had been deployed
in Afghanistan to help the rebel Northern Alliance and guide US bombing raids.

As heavy bombers continued to pound Taliban frontlines, the Northern Alliance
staged a show of strength but there was no mention of when the major offensive
it had promised would come.

American military planners are concerned the force will get bogged down with the
onset of winter in the weeks ahead. Bad weather will soon make roads impassable,
obstructing the resupply of frontline troops.

Elsewhere the Russian scientist in charge of one of the world's last deposits of
smallpox called today for mass vaccinations against the disease to restart in
the wake or recent anthrax attacks in the US.

"Smallpox is a very dangerous weapon in the hands of terrorist and you don't
need some clever way of delivering it, " Dr Lev Sandakhchiyev, director of
Russia's Vector Institute, told the Telegraph.

The US government has vaccinated 140 doctors and nurses against smallpox. They
will act as shock troops if there are any outbreaks.

Capturing or killing Osama bin Laden will not prevent his al Qaida network
launching fresh terrorist outrages, Jack Straw has warned.

The dissident Saudi terror suspect "will get caught in the end", the Foreign
Secretary told The Times today.

But despite bin Laden's importance, that alone would not shut down the network
believed to be behind the September 11 attacks in America, Mr Straw said.

The Foreign Secretary compares the cult of personality built around the al Qaida
chief with that built around Hitler, describing it as "similar to the Nazi
phenomenon".

LOAD-DATE: November 9, 2001

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                      Copyright 2001 Bristol United Press

                               3 of 251 DOCUMENTS

                     Belfast News Letter (Northern Ireland)

                           November 6, 2001, Tuesday

AMERICA SHOWS REAL INTEREST;
 AFTER THE US TERROR ATTACKS LED TO THE POSTPONEMENT OF THE IDRC WORLD CONGRESS
IN BELFAST LAST MONTH, THIS SATURDAY SEES THE EVENT GOING AHEAD. PAUL MCKILLION
REPORTS ON WHY BELFAST WAS CHOSEN AND WHAT THE CITY'S PROPERTY PEOPLE HOPE TO
GAIN FROM IT

BYLINE: Paul Mckillion

SECTION: BUSINESS; Pg. 8,9

LENGTH: 1065 words

HIGHLIGHT: FUTURE: Sean McCourt; FLAGSHIP: The new Odyssey Complex has becomes
the latest addition to Belfast's waterfront; TRANSFORMATION: New developments
are constantly changing the face of Belfast; Brendan Mullan;; FEEL: The re
-development of Belfast's waterfront has given a new feel to the city


SEAN McCourt, president of the IDRC World Council, admits that Belfast is not on
the radar of corporate America, but nevertheless is looking forward to seeing
what's on offer.

He says that it was the European arm of the organisation that pushed Belfast as
a host.

"The decision was based on Belfast moving relatively quickly to try and attract
more industry and new business. It is appropriate for real estate members to be
exposed to those different areas.

"Part of the IDRC is several economic development organisations and it is the
desire of IDRC to look for areas that are proceeding, focusing on the economic
development of their areas, and we like to contribute to the development of
those areas and the knowledge and recognition within the real estate industry."

IDRC is the world's leading professional association for executives managing
corporate assets. These assets range from real estate, facilities and
information technology to human resources and finance.

An indication of the power of the IDRC is that nearly half its membership are
corporate vice presidents, directors or business unit executives.

These people have a big say in where their business locates, and the economic
benefits which will flow from such a decision.

Mr McCourt's primary responsibilities at Ford Land include overseeing the real
estate division and ensuring the implementation of strategies. Currently, his
main objective is to reduce the $ 4 billion-per-year operational cost of the
real estate.

This is a common aim as corporations across the US trim spending to increase
total profits, and real estate directors find they are holding a big piece of
the puzzle.

The Ford portfolio consists of more than 275 million square feet - 18 million
square feet of corporate offices, 186 million square feet of manufacturing, and
nearly 71 million square feet of leased space used for engineering and
administration.

Ford Land brought the previously separate real estate services together to
provide a one-source solution to managing these assets.

An advanced method of doing this is one of the themes of the Belfast congress -
how hi-tech applications can streamline estate management and reduce costs.

While Mr McCourt says a total solution for the industry has not been found yet,
companies are working hard to service customers in improved ways.

"You ask where is the market itself in providing real estate solutions on the
web. Can we really do business on the web with site selection, negotiation etc?
No, because we are not there yet.

"Because there is not one consistent service provider, one solution shop, all
the properties for sale or lease are not available on the web. There isn't a
market solution there yet.

"But when we look internally in our companies and our customers there are a
couple of examples that companies have focussed on.

"One thing is a universal project management system, which you can use within a
company to manage a real estate project with customers, service providers and
internal service providers.

"Another is a computer aid facility management programme - where you have all
your space planning, facilities and number of staff on a common system to manage
much more effectively."

Mr McCourt adds that although some general information - employment, availabilty
and infrastructure - is on the websites of economic development agencies, it
does not beat 'pressing the flesh' and actually looking at locations for
oneself.

So while the hi-tech future to be discussed in Belfast will eventually lead to
the scenario where men like Sean McCourt don't have to leave their shores,
Belfast's property people will still be able to take advantage of the old
networking system, and put the city's regeneration on a global platform.

It is good news for local business figure Brendan Mullan (see 'Changing the
perspective'), who says Northern Ireland has to get away from being only as good
as its last CNN headline.

Mr McCourt says it is a huge bonus for Belfast to host the event and give senior
global business figures a glimpse of what it can offer.

"You got members attending with global and regional responsibiltiy and without
question one of the biggest advantages of these congresses is networking -
pressing flesh, meeting people, gaining knowlege of different areas and seeing
for yourself where Belfast is.

"Personally speaking, we are constantly looking to expand our market and my
knowledge of an area where we might be interested in expanding, prior to that
expansion request, is really helpful."

Changing the perspective

BRENDAN Mullan is confident that his city can meet the Sean McCourt test in
juding whether the congress is a succcess or not.

The IDRC President believes that "at the end of the day, it is the attendance
which really drives whether our decision was a success" - Mr Mullan says all 250
spaces for the event have been taken up.

Pleased with the full attendance, he says it's crucially important they get
first-hand experience of the city.

"When you think the only other exposure they get of Belfast is the latest CNN
headlines and you just think of what some of those headlines might have been,
this is an absolutely invaluable opportunity to re-position Belfast as an
excellent investment opportunity to business leaders.

"This conference gives us an easy reason for people to see the city themselves
and get a real feel for the confidence that is growing."

Belfast's selling points will be hammered home to the delegates - skilled and
available people, available office space at low operating costs, and good
telecoms infrastructure.

"We are very well positioned but it is all to no avail if people think it is an
unsafe place to be," says Mr Mullan.

He is especially keen to promote the confidence here which has led to
speculative office developments, built in anticipation of inward investment.

"11 months ago, 500,000 sq. ft of office space was completed - it was a sign of
confidence in the development community. There is 300,000 sq. ft still to let,
and because international investment is very mobile, it will go where people can
provide space for them to do business in three to six months time.

"Because you can't put a building up in that time you need speculative
development - and that is what we have in Belfast."

LOAD-DATE: November 6, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

                   Copyright 2001 Century Newspapers Limited

                               4 of 251 DOCUMENTS

                            Daily Post (North Wales)

                           November 6, 2001, Tuesday

SECRET CIA STATION 'DESTROYED IN TERROR ATTACKS'

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 229 words


A SECRET office operated by the United States Central Intelligence Agency was
destroyed in the terrorist attacks on the World Trade Centre, seriously
disrupting intelligence operations, according to a report.

The undercover CIA station was in 7 World Trade Centre, a smaller office tower
that fell several hours after the collapse of the twin towers on September 11, a
US government official said.

The official said that immediately after the attack, a special CIA team scoured
the rubble in search of secret documents and intelligence reports stored in the
station, either on paper or in computers.

It was not known whether the efforts were successful.

A CIA spokesman declined to comment on the existence of the office, which was
first reported in Sunday's editions of The New York Times.

A small Yemeni honey shop, a German appliance dealer and a Middle Eastern bakery
that churns out sweet pastries are being added to the same State Department
terrorist list that includes Osama bin Laden's al-Qaida network - making them
the first overseas businesses to be branded as foreign terrorist organisations.

Experts say the additions to the list will make it easier to disrupt terrorist
funding, but that success would require complete co-operation from foreign
governments that so far have turned up little evidence to shut down the
businesses.

LOAD-DATE: November 6, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

               Copyright 2001 The Liverpool Daily Post & Echo Ltd

                               5 of 251 DOCUMENTS

                              Gloucestershire Echo

                                November 6, 2001

Jobs go after terror attacks

SECTION: Pg.1

LENGTH: 135 words


COTSWOLD engineering firm British Autogard is shedding 16 jobs.

The company, based in Cirencester, relies heavily on trading in the US and has
seen a downturn since the terrorist attacks in September.

Company chairman Derek Gold also blamed the strength of the pound for the
decision to cut staff numbers.

He said: "We're extremely reliant on America and our big customers are reluctant
to produce the contracts and are apprehensive about business."

"It's very sad because we're dealing with people's lives and I feel for them,
but we are optimistic about bouncing back."

British Autogard was formerly known as GIB precision and moved to Cirencester
during the Second World War.

The business employs around 100 people and manufactures torque control and
transmission equipment and clutches.

LOAD-DATE: November 9, 2001

LANGUAGE: English

                      Copyright 2001 Gloucestershire Echo

                               6 of 251 DOCUMENTS

                             The Gloucester Citizen

                                November 6, 2001

Man's 'terror in attack'

SECTION: AGENCY: AGENCY, Pg.5

LENGTH: 244 words


A MAN has told of his terror when four men hurled him to the floor and rained
down kicks and punches to his head and body.

David Rolf said he was verbally abused by the group on leaving Jumping Jacks
nightclub in Gloucester at about 1am on January 13.

He told Gloucester Crown Court how, after responding, he was pulled from behind
and beaten up, suffering a one-and-half -inch gash to the forehead.

"I remember being hauled backwards and being kicked and punched. I fell to the
ground. Once on the ground I was kicked and punched some more," he said.

The four Coleford men said to have carried out the attack near Argos, in
Eastgate Street, Gloucester are: Ian Bell, aged 34, of Chestnut Close, Jonathan
Gwynne, aged 25, of Joyford Farm, David Ireland, aged 25, of Joyford Farm, and
Jason Revill, aged 19, of Roman Way. They have all pleaded not guilty to affray.

Toby Halliwell, prosecuting, had told the jury the men had been drinking at
Jumping Jacks nightclub and had left at 1am.

"They were all very drunk," he said. But so was Mr Rolf, alleged Robert Duval,
representing Gwynne. Mr Duval claimed Mr Rolf had started the violence by
rugby-tackling Bell.

Earlier the court heard from Mr Rolf how he and his brother had joined two women
friends for a drink.  They started off at a pub where Mr Rolf had one pint
before moving on to another where he had one more. He had another five or six
pints in Jumping Jacks.

The trial continues.

LOAD-DATE: November 9, 2001

LANGUAGE: English

                     Copyright 2001 The Gloucester Citizen

                               7 of 251 DOCUMENTS

                            The Independent (London)

                           November 6, 2001, Tuesday

CAMPAIGN AGAINST TERRORISM: DISSIDENTS - TALIBAN ARE AFRAID OF ATTACKING REBEL
CHIEFTAIN, CLAIMS HIS BROTHER

BYLINE: Richard Lloyd Parry In Quetta Karzai: Roving country with anti-Taliban
message

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 667 words


HAMID KARZAI, the tribal chieftain who is attempting to raise a revolt against
the Taliban, is alive and safe inside Afghanistan, and attracting ever greater
numbers of followers to his cause, according to his family.

"It is a revolt and it will grow, and surely it will become very big," said his
younger brother, Ahmed Wakil Karzai, last night. "If he can continue to move
freely, if he can hold on there and people realise that that there is a safe
place they can go, then it will happen very quickly."

Mr Karzai, a veteran of the 10-year war against the Soviet Union, entered
Afghanistan almost a month ago, with the aim of undermining support for the
Taliban among the Pashtun people, the country's dominant ethnic group.

There were fears for his life last week after he narrowly escaped a Taliban
ambush and a six-hour gun battle. But according to his brother, he is safely
encamped in the country's central Urozgan province, with armed supporters, and a
growing number of Afghans attracted by Mr Karzai's political project - an
ethnically inclusive coalition government, inaugurated by the former king of
Afghanistan, Zahir Shah.

"More and more people are joining him," Ahmed Wakil Karzai said in the south
-western Pakistani city of Quetta. "I just spoke to him on the telephone and I
was able to pass onto him the names of more people in Afghanistan who want to
join him. The Taliban know where he is ... but they can't attack him, so there
must be lots of people with him."

Mr Karzai's family will not give details of his whereabouts or reveal the number
of supporters he has attracted. But it is clear that the accounts of his
movements given by the Taliban have been exaggerated and in some cases
fabricated.

Last week, they claimed to be hunting down Mr Karzai, and later to have captured
more than 20 of his men, some of whom were later hanged. On Saturday, the
Taliban's ambassador to Pakistan, Abdul Saleem Zaeef, claimed that he had been
left Afghanistan in an American helicopter. And yesterday, there were reports
from the Taliban that he had retreated to the Afghanistan- Pakistan border.

"Since last week they keep coming up with different stories about where he is,"
said the younger Mr Karzai. "They realise that if people know he is there, they
will join him." In the absence of a full-scale ground offensive, the success of
the coalition campaign against the Taliban depends upon men like Mr Karzai -
Pashtun leaders with the charisma and respect to undermine Taliban support from
within.

"The Taliban have no fixed bases now," said Ahmed Wakil Karzai. "They're moving
round, and you can drop bomb after bomb, but they will not be defeated without
action on the ground." Hopes of this happening suffered a blow last month when
another former mujahedin commander, Abdul Haq, was captured and summarily
executed by the Taliban a few days after entering eastern Afghanistan.

Hamid Karzai, however, appears to command greater confidence among the American
and British governments - to the anger of Haq's supporters who believed that he
was neglected by the coalition.

"The truth about Abdul Haq is that he was away from the people for too long," a
Karzai supporter said last night. "He became cut off in the 1990s, but Hamid was
never cut off."

The younger Mr Karzai declined to say whether his brother was receiving foreign
support, but a series of leaked reports in the Washington Post suggest that the
CIA has high hopes for Mr Karzai.

According to his brother, he has a base somewhere in Urozgan and travels from
village to village, by foot and also by car, holding talks with local leaders.
He drove into Afghanistan just after the bombing campaign began, and passed
unrecognised through the Taliban checkpoints.

"He doesn't spend much time in any one place," said Ahmed Wakil Karzai. "The
Taliban know where he is, so of course he is in danger. They won't give up, but
they'll never get Hamid. For them he is the most wanted."

LOAD-DATE: November 6, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 2001 Independent Print Ltd

                               8 of 251 DOCUMENTS

                            The Independent (London)

                           November 6, 2001, Tuesday

CAMPAIGN AGAINST TERRORISM: DISSIDENTS - TALIBAN ARE AFRAID OF ATTACKING REBEL
CHIEFTAIN, CLAIMS HIS BROTHER

BYLINE: Richard Lloyd Parry In Quetta Karzai: Roving country with anti-Taliban
message

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 667 words


HAMID KARZAI, the tribal chieftain who is attempting to raise a revolt against
the Taliban, is alive and safe inside Afghanistan, and attracting ever greater
numbers of followers to his cause, according to his family.

"It is a revolt and it will grow, and surely it will become very big," said his
younger brother, Ahmed Wakil Karzai, last night. "If he can continue to move
freely, if he can hold on there and people realise that that there is a safe
place they can go, then it will happen very quickly."

Mr Karzai, a veteran of the 10-year war against the Soviet Union, entered
Afghanistan almost a month ago, with the aim of undermining support for the
Taliban among the Pashtun people, the country's dominant ethnic group.

There were fears for his life last week after he narrowly escaped a Taliban
ambush and a six-hour gun battle. But according to his brother, he is safely
encamped in the country's central Urozgan province, with armed supporters, and a
growing number of Afghans attracted by Mr Karzai's political project - an
ethnically inclusive coalition government, inaugurated by the former king of
Afghanistan, Zahir Shah.

"More and more people are joining him," Ahmed Wakil Karzai said in the south
-western Pakistani city of Quetta. "I just spoke to him on the telephone and I
was able to pass onto him the names of more people in Afghanistan who want to
join him. The Taliban know where he is ... but they can't attack him, so there
must be lots of people with him."

Mr Karzai's family will not give details of his whereabouts or reveal the number
of supporters he has attracted. But it is clear that the accounts of his
movements given by the Taliban have been exaggerated and in some cases
fabricated.

Last week, they claimed to be hunting down Mr Karzai, and later to have captured
more than 20 of his men, some of whom were later hanged. On Saturday, the
Taliban's ambassador to Pakistan, Abdul Saleem Zaeef, claimed that he had been
left Afghanistan in an American helicopter. And yesterday, there were reports
from the Taliban that he had retreated to the Afghanistan- Pakistan border.

"Since last week they keep coming up with different stories about where he is,"
said the younger Mr Karzai. "They realise that if people know he is there, they
will join him." In the absence of a full-scale ground offensive, the success of
the coalition campaign against the Taliban depends upon men like Mr Karzai -
Pashtun leaders with the charisma and respect to undermine Taliban support from
within.

"The Taliban have no fixed bases now," said Ahmed Wakil Karzai. "They're moving
round, and you can drop bomb after bomb, but they will not be defeated without
action on the ground." Hopes of this happening suffered a blow last month when
another former mujahedin commander, Abdul Haq, was captured and summarily
executed by the Taliban a few days after entering eastern Afghanistan.

Hamid Karzai, however, appears to command greater confidence among the American
and British governments - to the anger of Haq's supporters who believed that he
was neglected by the coalition.

"The truth about Abdul Haq is that he was away from the people for too long," a
Karzai supporter said last night. "He became cut off in the 1990s, but Hamid was
never cut off."

The younger Mr Karzai declined to say whether his brother was receiving foreign
support, but a series of leaked reports in the Washington Post suggest that the
CIA has high hopes for Mr Karzai.

According to his brother, he has a base somewhere in Urozgan and travels from
village to village, by foot and also by car, holding talks with local leaders.
He drove into Afghanistan just after the bombing campaign began, and passed
unrecognised through the Taliban checkpoints.

"He doesn't spend much time in any one place," said Ahmed Wakil Karzai. "The
Taliban know where he is, so of course he is in danger. They won't give up, but
they'll never get Hamid. For them he is the most wanted."

LOAD-DATE: November 6, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 2001 Independent Print Ltd

                               9 of 251 DOCUMENTS

                          THE JOURNAL (Newcastle, UK)

                      November 6, 2001, Tuesday Edition 1

Terror attacks delay airport sale pay day

BYLINE: By The Journal

SECTION: LOCAL NEWS, Pg. 4

LENGTH: 517 words







Millions of pounds in loan repayments to seven local authorities from the sale
of Newcastle Airport have been put on hold in the wake of the New York terror
attacks.

A 75m bond issue is now unlikely to take place in this financial year leaving
councils without valuable revenue.

Advisors to the airport board of directors have recommended a deferral of the
bond issue to interested parties until economic conditions improve.

Councillors said the news is a body blow as the cash was to be used in capital
investment projects.

A public-private partnership deal was completed for the sale of the airport last
May which saw Copenhagen Airports pay a total of 194.95m for a stake in the
business.

Seven local authorities, Newcastle, Sunderland, County Durham, Northumberland,
North Tyneside, Gateshead, and South Tyneside shared in the windfall after the
sale of 49pc of the airport's shares.

The first tranche of money 94.5m has been paid to the authorities in cash. But
the second phase some 100m in loan notes is proving to be a stumbling block.

The airport had intended to repay 75m of the loan by raising funds through
offering bonds in the business to investors.

Newcastle stood to make 12.8m, Durham 11.1m, Gateshead 9.3m, North Tyneside
9.075m, Northumberland 11.85m, South Tyneside 7.2m and Sunderland 13.65m.

Bosses at Newcastle Airport have admitted that the bond issue is now on hold but
say it was never time specific and there is no question of the authorities not
getting their payments eventually.

Opposition members at North Tyneside Council already facing a 4.5m deficit
criticised the original terms of the contract for the repayment and said the
authority will also have to wait on a separate 3m loan to the airport to be paid
off.

A report to councillors at a meeting in North Tyneside tonight says that "it is
now highly unlikely this repayment will be received during 2001/02." It adds
that the bond issue was due to have taken place in the Autumn.

Liberal Democrat Leader Coun Michael Huscroft said: "The council is already in a
serious financial situation.

"There had been a hope that airport money could be used to reduce the problem.
Now this option is being taken away."

Coun Rita Stringfellow, leader of North Tyneside Council, said: "The facts are
that there is no doubt that after September 11, we would not have seen a
successful public-private partnership."

Peter Arnold, Liberal Democrat leader at Newcastle, said: "We have been planning
to use this money to fund capital projects to enhance the city. Clearly this
will have an effect."

Sunderland Council leader Colin Anderson said last night: "The most important
thing is to get the airport in good shape so we can get lots of money from it in
the future."

A statement from Newcastle Airport said: "The timing of the repayment of the
loan notes by way of a bond issue will be determined by reference to the most
preferential interest rates, to maximise the benefit to the local authority
share- holders."

LOAD-DATE: November 29, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                Copyright 2001 Newcastle Chronicle & Journal Ltd

                              10 of 251 DOCUMENTS

                            Daily Post (North Wales)

                          November 7, 2001, Wednesday

TERROR ATTACKS TAKE THEIR TOLL FROM BA PROFITS

BYLINE: Abigail Townsend

SECTION: BUSINESS; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 424 words


BRITISH Airways reported a 98pc plunge in second quarter profits yesterday but
remained confident the airline would survive the crisis.

Pre-tax profits for the three months to September 30 were just pounds 5m, hit by
the economic fall-out from the September 11 attacks and the subsequent war on
terrorism.

Turnover for the period - one of the busiest for the travel industry - slipped
12pc to pounds 2.25bn.

Net debt currently stands at pounds 6.5bn, cash burn is at pounds 2m per day and
some of BA's key routes involve crossing the Atlantic and Middle East.

But chief executive Rod Eddington remained confident BA would pull through.

He said: "We will survive the industry crisis. We have already taken sufficient
actions to control costs."

As well as axing more than 5,000 jobs, BA has grounded 20 planes and cut back on
routes since September 11.

Mr Eddington said BA had resources of around pounds 3.4bn in assets, cash and
additional facilities.

Net debt was "manageable", chief financial officer John Rishton said, and there
were no plans to sell assets such as BA's stake in Australian carrier Qantas.

Half-year pre-tax profits slumped 70pc to pounds 45m for the six months to
September 30, while turnover slipped 7pc at pounds 4.55bn.

But the City had been expecting a loss of up to pounds 70m and one analyst said
it was the tight control of costs that had kept BA in the black.

Both airline and the City agree that BA will make a "significant" loss for the
full-year, with house broker Merrill Lynch putting the figure at nearly pounds
800m before exceptionals. In the meantime BA, based in Harmondsworth, northwest
London, is reviewing the future direction of the airline.

The overhaul - dubbed Future Size and Shape - will look at nofrills airlines
such as Ryanair and see if BA can adopt any of their practices.

Dominic Edridge, transport analyst at Commerzbank, said BA would be "crazy" to
compete directly.

Instead, he said, BA was more likely to continue focusing on more expensive
fares.

"BA wants traffic but it wants profitable traffic, " he added.

BA will also look at its role in any possible industry consolidation.

There are strict controls governing links between airlines, including mergers
and takeovers, but BA believes the industry crisis will prompt governments to
rethink current regulations.

The airline sector was suffering before the September 11 attacks, with BA
reporting a slump in passengers because of the US downturn and foot-and-mouth.

LOAD-DATE: November 7, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

               Copyright 2001 The Liverpool Daily Post & Echo Ltd

                              11 of 251 DOCUMENTS

                            Daily Post (North Wales)

                          November 7, 2001, Wednesday

TERROR ATTACKS SPARKED RUN OF PRIVATE TRADING

BYLINE: Nicky Burridge

SECTION: BUSINESS; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 314 words


THE number of stock market trades carried out by private investors surged
following September's terrorist attacks, figures out yesterday showed.

A report on private investors during the three months to the end of September
found that while investment activity was slowing before the strike, it began
increasing almost immediately afterwards.

During August an average of 40,000 trades were carried out each day by or on
behalf of individuals, but this rose to 53,307 on September 12, the Association
of Private Client Investment Managers and Stockbrokers said.

The group said trades averaged 50,000 a day during October and during this
period more shares were bought than were sold.

But despite the rise, the number of trades being carried out was still well down
on the 120,000 trades per day seen during the first quarter of 2000 at the
height of the dotcom boom.

APCIMS chief executive Angela Knight said: "Volumes are well down from their
boom time peaks, with August being the lowest month.

"This demonstrates that concerns over company performance and economy generally
were there before the events of September 11.

"Daily trading volumes have increased since then, but not surprisingly hesitancy
remains."

APCIMS said it would have to wait until the first quarter of 2002, where there
is usually a rush to use tax allowances before the April deadline, to assess the
extent to which trading volumes had recovered.

The group added that although trading in the shares of UK companies had
decreased during 2001, investment in bonds and overseas equities had risen,
accounting for more than 20pc of activity for the first time in three years.

During the third quarter the number of trades done over the internet fell 21pc
compared to the second quarter of the year, though the number of people trading
online rose to 327,000, up from 319,000.

LOAD-DATE: November 7, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

               Copyright 2001 The Liverpool Daily Post & Echo Ltd

                              12 of 251 DOCUMENTS

                              The Herald (Glasgow)

                                November 7, 2001

House prices fall as confidence is hit in wake of US terrorist attacks

BYLINE: David Steele

SECTION: Pg. 5

LENGTH: 277 words


HOUSE prices fell last month as consumer confidence was hit by the US terrorist
attacks, according to Britain's biggest mortgage lender.

Halifax reported a 0.5% drop in property prices during October, after saying
price increases ground to a halt in September.

The group said the fall was a response to the slowdown in economic growth,
deteriorating employment prospects, and the knock to consumer confidence
following September's attacks.

But the decline was less than in October last year, and as a result annual house
price inflation increased to 9.4% for the year to the end of October, from 8.8%
in September.

Martin Ellis, Halifax group economist, said: "House price movements over the
past few months as a whole indicate a clear downward shift in the underlying
trend, with prices increasing at a somewhat slower pace compared with earlier in
the year.

"This is consistent with reports from estate agents and house-builders and the
latest market figures on the number of mortgage approvals, which all show signs
of a slowdown in housing market activity."

Leading Scottish estate agents have detected a levelling out of sales in recent
weeks but say that the downturn has not been as dramatic as in other parts of
the UK.

Alan Baxter, head of land and new homes at Slater, Hogg and Howison, said: "We
are finding things are slowing down but people are still buying and we are still
selling." Gary Thomson, managing director of Clyde Property, said: "The effect
of September 11 was short-lived and while things have slowed down a little they
are starting to pick up now and should continue to do so right up until
Christmas."

LOAD-DATE: November 07, 2001

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                Copyright 2001 Scottish Media Newspapers Limited

                              13 of 251 DOCUMENTS

                                   Irish News

                               November 07, 2001

Who says politics and sport don't mix?;
 LEADER: The ripple effects of the September 11 terrorist attacks have hit the
sports world. As major games are cancelled and several key players refuse to
travel abroad, Todd R Nicholls dispels the myth that sport and politics don't
mix

BYLINE: Todd R Nicholls

SECTION:  Pg. 6

LENGTH: 911 words


THE MAXIM that sport and politics don't mix is unlikely to be heard ever again
following the September 11 attacks on America .

While most topline sport in American was postponed in the early weeks of
September, the first major sporting event cancelled (and then later resurrected)
in this part of the world was the Australian rugby league tour of Britain.

It was therefore no surprise when two English cricketers - Andy Caddick and
Richard Croft - decided last week that in the current political climate they did
not wish to tour India with their national side.

Caddick and Croft's announcement followed the withdrawal of six Chelsea
footballers from the club's second-round UEFA Cup match in Israel three weeks
ago.

Sport and politics, rightly or wrongly, do appear to mix.

Perhaps nobody knows this better than Ireland, which was host to one of the more
well-known examples of sport and politics mixing.

Although rugby internationals had been played in Ireland at the height of the
war of independence after the first world war, the civil unrest in Northern
Ireland during 1972-73 threatened to throw into chaos the entire Home Nations
season.

For reasons of general safety, both the Welsh and Scottish Rugby Football Unions
decided that it would be unwise to send their national squads to take on Ireland
at Lansdowne Road.

"When both the Scots and the Welsh rugby authorities decided that they were not
going to send their sides to Dublin we were all staggered, " says former Irish
Times rugby writer Edmund van Esbeck.

"We were told that they considered it a safety risk, which everyone knew was
just rubbish. To this day I am still at a loss to explain why they did not
come."

Given the actions of the Scots and the Welsh, there was also plenty of pressure
on the England Rugby Football Union to also not send their national side across
the Irish Sea.

However, the president of the English Union, Dick Kingswell, made it clear in
January 1973 that it was his union's intention to bring a team to Dublin to play
Ireland on February 10 1973.

England duly arrived with a near full-strength squad and were amazed with what
they found. When they ran on to the field the entire concourse to a man stood
and applauded them for five minutes.

"It was one of the most moving things that I have ever seen on a rugby field and
certainly the most amazing thing I have seen at Lansdowne Road, " Mr van Esbeck
says.

"The mood in the ground was electric. Given the context of the situation, if
England had not come that year, then I doubt whether they would have come for
five years after that."

The English captain that day was John Pullin, who went on to win 42 caps for his
country. He says that although he wasn't concerned about coming to Dublin,
pressure was put on the players to make themselves available.

"There was certainly pressure put on us by the English Rugby Union to play in
the match, " he told the Irish News.

"Whether pressure was put on them by the Irish Rugby Union, I don't know.

"I know for a fact that there was at least one player (lock Nigel Horton who was
a policeman) who choose not to come, while there were one or two others who also
decided not to travel."

Mr Pullin says that in those days making yourself unavailable could have spelt
the end of the your international career.

"Although the guys who decided not to come did play for England again, I figured
that if I turned down the invitation it might be the last one that I got."

Although the English team had security with them when they came to Ireland, it
did not cause them any bother.

What did surprise England was the standing ovation that they got before the
match.

"I'm told that it went on for several minutes, yet it didn't feel like it when
we were out there, " Mr Pullin says .

"Although it was very nice, we just wanted to get on with the game. A few of the
guys were particularly on edge, so we figured the sooner we got into it the
better.

"Although none of the forwards were too worried about things, I know one or two
of our threequarters were uneasy during the match. I know it affected their
performances."

After the match, which Ireland won 18-9, John Pullin sat down for five minutes
and composed his speech for the after-match function. Included in what he wrote
was a line that has gone down in rugby folklore.

"I wrote that although we (England) were not the best team in the world, at
least we turned up! It didn't seem like a great line at the time, but it has
been remembered."

Mr Pullin says he wouldn't criticise any individual, be it English cricketer or
Chelsea footballer, who chose not to travel to the Indian subcontinent or
Israel.

"At the end of the day it's up to each individual, isn't it? I'm not sure
whether it is possible to compare the decision that we made with what the
cricketers or footballers have gone through recently. Things have changed since
1973, while India is a long way further away than Ireland."

Mr Pullin says he is unsure what he would have done had he been Caddick or Croft
or the six Chelsea footballers.

Age, family, and the assurances received by the sporting bodies would all have
had to be considered.

"We weren't in Ireland long, only for two or three days, " he says, "and the
security was very good. We had a good night after the match and with retrospect
coming to Dublin was certainly the right decision."

LOAD-DATE: November 9, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: GOING NOWHERE: Chelsea footballer Emmanuel Petit along with six of his
team mates refused to travel to the club's second round UEFA Cup match in Israel
three weeks ago

                     Copyright 2001 The Irish News Limited

                              14 of 251 DOCUMENTS

                          THE JOURNAL (Newcastle, UK)

                     November 7, 2001, Wednesday Edition 1

Price fall blamed on terror attacks

BYLINE: By The Journal

SECTION: BUSINESS, Pg. 24

LENGTH: 265 words







House prices fell last month as consumer confidence was hit by the US terrorist
attacks, according to Britain's biggest mortgage lender.

Halifax reported a 0.5pc drop in property prices during October, after saying
price increases ground to a halt in September.

The group said the fall was a response to the slowdown in economic growth,
deteriorating employment prospects and the knock to consumer confidence
following the September 11 attacks.

But the decline was less than last October's and as a result, annual house price
inflation increased to 9.4pc for the year to the end of October, from 8.8pc in
September.

Halifax group economist Martin Ellis said: "House price movements over the past
few months as a whole indicate a clear downward shift in the underlying trend,
with prices increasing at a somewhat slower pace compared with earlier in the
year.

"This is consistent with reports from estate agents and house-builders and the
latest market figures on the number of mortgage approvals, which all show signs
of a slowdown in housing market activity."

But he added that despite this month's fall, the group expected house prices to
rise during the coming year, though at a slower pace.

Mr Ellis said: "Looking ahead, continuing economic growth, low interest rates
and housing affordability levels that are not stretched should support the
housing market.

"We expect house prices to continue rising over the coming 12 months, albeit at
a more modest pace."

The average price of a property is now 93,616.

LOAD-DATE: November 29, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                Copyright 2001 Newcastle Chronicle & Journal Ltd

                              15 of 251 DOCUMENTS



                                   The Mirror

                          November 7, 2001, Wednesday

WAR ON TERROR: BRIT GROUND ATTACK: NOW HE'S BUYING NUKES;
 BUSH REVEALS BIN LADEN'S TERROR PLOT

BYLINE: Andy Lines, Us Editor

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 1,4,5

LENGTH: 569 words

HIGHLIGHT: WEAPONS: Bin Laden


OSAMA bin Laden is shopping for nuclear arms, President Bush confirmed last
night.

Accusing bin Laden's al-Qaeda terror group of "mad global ambitions", Mr Bush
said: "They are seeking chemical, biological and nuclear weapons. Given the
means, they would be a threat to every nation and eventually to civilisation
itself."

His comments came amid two new developments. It was revealed that British troops
would carry out lightning raids in Afghanistan in days.

And the US said it had dropped two devastating seven-ton "daisy cutter" bombs on
Afghan positions. Mr Bush delivered his warning to 17 Eastern European leaders
meeting in Warsaw to discuss cooperation in fighting terrorism.

Speaking over a video link, he admitted the US did not know if bin Laden had
terror weapons.

But he said: "He announced this was his intention, and we need to take him
seriously.

"We'll do everything we can to make sure he does not acquire the means to
deliver weapons of mass destruction.

"If he has them, we'll make sure he doesn't deploy them.

"We act now, because we must lift this dark threat from our age and save
generations to come."

Bush then delivered his harshest indictment of Afghan-istan's cruel Taliban
regime allies will be brought to justice." The president was speaking after
meeting French leader Jacques Chirac at the White House.

Bush's tough line was backed by Tony Blair who ruled out any negotiation with
the Taliban.

Asked on CNN's Larry King Live how bin Laden and al-Qaeda could be dealt with,
Mr Blair said: "This is a man who talks about killing all Jews, about
eliminating the state of Israel, about killing Christians or Americans who
oppose what he stands for.

"He talks about effectively making Taliban states of every Arab or Muslim
country.

"You don't negotiate with that kind. You just defeat them. We have to shut down
the whole of that terrorist network - eliminate it, eradicate it."

He added that by now the which is shielding bin Laden. He declared: "They kill,
then rejoice over the murders.

"They steal food from their own people, destroy religious monuments, forbid
children to fly kites, sing songs or build snowmen. A girl of seven can be
beaten for wearing white shoes.

"These terrorists - al-Qaeda, the Taliban and other terror groups across the
world - try to impose their radical views through threats and violence.

"We see the same intolerance of dissent, the same mad global ambitions, the same
brutal determination to control life.

"Now they're trying to export terrorism throughout the world."

Pledging to keep up "relentless military pressure", the president said: "No
matter how long it takes, the terrorists and their Taliban had "virtually
merged" with al-Qaeda.

Mr Blair said: "They could yield up the network and bin Laden if they wanted
to."

He was speaking on the eve of a visit to Washington where he will brief Mr Bush
on his Middle East tour.

The two men will also thrash out a tough new sanctions regime against Saddam
Hussein.

It will aim at stopping the Iraqi dictator gaining materials to develop
chemical, nuclear and biological weapons.

The policy will also be designed to ease the suffering of the Iraqi people who,
critics claim, are hit by the present sanctions.

Tomorrow Mr Blair will be back in London to meet Jordan's King Abdullah and
Pakistan's President Musharraf.

LOAD-DATE: November 7, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                            Copyright 2001 MGN Ltd.

                              16 of 251 DOCUMENTS



                                   The Mirror

                          November 7, 2001, Wednesday

WAR ON TERROR: BRIT GROUND ATTACK: LIGHTNING STRIKES

BYLINE: Tom Newton Dunn

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 4,5

LENGTH: 515 words


BRITISH ground troops will take part in lightning raids on Afghanistan within
days, defence sources revealed last night.

The "in and out" strikes have been planned to take just two or three hours to
avoid giving Taliban troops time to call in reinforcements.

American B52 bombers will continue to pound the Afghan frontline for up to two
more weeks.

The two-pronged strategy is designed to smash the regime's will as well as its
power-base.

A defence source said: "The Taliban are starting to weaken, and quite
significantly. We will not let up the pressure, on the contrary we are going to
increase it

"Our strategy is proceeding in a way that we expected. It may appear that
nothing is going on but that may not be the case at all."

Until now a lack of intelligence on the ground has delayed land-based
operations, much to the frustration of military leaders.

But spy planes and covert special forces teams have begun to pin-point specific
land targets.

An MoD spokesman said: "We have assigned UK forces to ground operations.

"They will be going in and out but we will not be drawn on any timings."

British and American raids will be mounted separately, keeping the two fighting
forces apart.

Modified Chinook helicopters on board British warships in the Indian Ocean will
be used for the attacks.

SAS squads will spearhead the raids, backed up by Royal Marine commandos.

The defence source added: "The marines are not just in the region for show. They
are a highly capable fighting force and that will be demonstrated quite soon."

As well as "maximum force" assaults on terrorist and Taliban leaders' hideouts,
the targets are also expected to include drug factories and armament stashes.

Establishing a base inside Afghanistan from which to launch further raids is
also a top priority.

Military planners are settling on sites around the strategic northern city of
Mazar-e-Sharif.

In another sign that action was imminent, it was revealed yesterday that defence
chiefs are drawing up fresh warnings on how much news organisations should
report about special forces operations.

The D-notice committee is to write to editors to ask them not to reveal
specifics about military operations.

The independent committee, headed by retired Admiral Nick Wilkinson, watches
over national security issues.

Army chiefs have cancelled official engagements to help plan Operation Veritas.

Head of the British Army, Chief of the General Staff General Sir Michael Walker,
has asked aides to clear his diary for the next three weeks.

On the non-military front, diplomats are increasing pressure on the Taliban
financially by continuing to persuade countries all over the world to freeze
financial assets.

Meanwhile, former Labour Defence Secretary Lord Healey last night became the
most senior party figure to call for a halt to the bombing.

In a letter to The Times he urged Tony Blair to persuade George Bush to pull
back. He was backed by Labour peers Lord Rea and Lord Young as well as
crossbencher Baroness Warnock.

LOAD-DATE: November 7, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                            Copyright 2001 MGN Ltd.

                              17 of 251 DOCUMENTS



                                   The Mirror

                          November 7, 2001, Wednesday

WAR ON TERROR: BRIT GROUND ATTACK: WHERE OUR TROOPS ARE

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 132 words


MARINES: Nearly two companies left Oman yesterday.

The soldiers from 40 Commando are on assault troop carriers HMS Fearless, RFA
Tristram and RFA Percivale.

As the 200-strong force heads to Pakistan, it is supplied and protected by seven
other warships, including HMS Cornwall and HMS Southampton.

The commandos will fly into combat from HMS Illustrious, an aircraft carrier
converted in less than a week to carry helicopters.

SAS: At least two squadrons are now in the region.

Most of the 140 elite troops are on Navy ships with the commandos, but several
small teams have been on covert surveillance missions in Taliban-held territory
for weeks.

Another team has been scouring Tajikistan to find sites to launch a full-scale
land invasion from in the spring.

LOAD-DATE: November 7, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                            Copyright 2001 MGN Ltd.

                              18 of 251 DOCUMENTS



                                   The Mirror

                          November 7, 2001, Wednesday

WAR ON TERROR: BRIT GROUND ATTACK: QUEEN HITS AT MILITANTS

BYLINE: Jane Kerr, Royal Reporter

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 89 words


THE Queen yesterday condemned militants looking to promote hatred in the wake of
the September 11 atrocities.

She told Jordan's King Abdullah that society had "an added responsibility to
ensure those intent on stirring up hatred, fear and prejudice in this country do
not succeed".

At a banquet at Windsor Castle she thanked the visiting monarch for his efforts
following the attacks, adding that she hoped for a "comprehensive and just
peace" in the Middle East and "deeply regretted" the loss of life in the past
year.

LOAD-DATE: November 7, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                            Copyright 2001 MGN Ltd.

                              19 of 251 DOCUMENTS



                                   The Mirror

                          November 7, 2001, Wednesday

WAR ON TERROR: BRIT GROUND ATTACK: RULER'S GAMBLE

BYLINE: Mark Ellis, Foreign Editor

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 232 words

HIGHLIGHT: DIPLOMACY: Musharraf


PAKISTAN'S ruler General Pervez Musharraf is jetting off on a week of diplomacy
today, leaving his country in turmoil and facing a general strike.

US military sources fear there may be an attempt by his pro-Taliban opponents to
overthrow his regime in his absence.

But others see his decision to travel as a display of his firm grip on the reins
of power.

He will meet French President Jacques Chirac today, Tony Blair tomorrow and US
President George W Bush after addressing the United Nations in New York on
Saturday.

His staunchly Muslim nation has seen some of the most violent protests against
US military action in Afghanistan.

Now 35 Islamic parties have called for a general strike on Friday. Maulana
Samiul Haq of the pro-Taliban Afghanistan and Pakistan Defence Council said: "We
are appealing to all Pakistanis to go on strike, but there is tremendous
pressure from the government - every institution is mobilised to thwart the
strike call."

The government has promised to clamp down on violence, but is allowing peaceful
demonstrations to go ahead.

President Musharraf, 58, has recently purged his army and intelligence services
of men suspected of being pro-Taliban.

US military sources fear his overthrow by hardline Muslims could plunge the
international coalition into chaos and potentially give Osama bin Laden access
to nuclear weapons.

LOAD-DATE: November 7, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                            Copyright 2001 MGN Ltd.

                              20 of 251 DOCUMENTS



                                   The Mirror

                          November 7, 2001, Wednesday

WAR ON TERROR: BRIT GROUND ATTACK: GERMANS GO IN

BYLINE: Allan Hall In Berlin

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 237 words

HIGHLIGHT: 1999: Germans in Kosovo


GERMANY is ready to deploy nearly 4,000 soldiers, machines and aircraft in its
biggest military operation since 1945.

Chancellor Gerhard Schroeder yesterday pledged chemical warfare specialists, a
flying hospital, medics and ABC anti-chemical warfare tanks.

And after requests from the Pentagon, they will also send detachments of their
deadly SAS-trained KSK special forces.

German soldiers served in the Nato peacekeeping forces in Kosovo, Bosnia and
Macedonia. Luftwaffe Tornados flew with the RAF in Kosovo in 1999.

But they have not taken part in battle since World War Two. 'Mr Schroeder's
order has yet to be agreed by the German cabinet and parliament.

But despite Germans anxiety about the war - 69 per cent want a pause in the
bombing - it looks certain to be approved. In a TV address to the nation
yesterday Mr Schroeder said: "It is our will to accede to the requests of the
Americans. We send these men to fulfil our commitment to the war on terrorism."

At least 100 elite KSK soldiers will be provided. They are trained for rescue
and covert missions, fighting subversion and hand-to-hand combat.

A US general told defence minister Rudolf Scharping the KSK ranks with the
"scariest resources" of western armies.

One German military source said: "The KSK is even better than the Americans'
Delta Force. Its whole training ethos is repulsing terrorism and seizing
people."

LOAD-DATE: November 7, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                            Copyright 2001 MGN Ltd.

                              21 of 251 DOCUMENTS



                                   The Mirror

                          November 7, 2001, Wednesday

WAR ON TERROR: BRIT GROUND ATTACK: ISRAELI ELITE HELPS US 'BUNGLERS'

BYLINE: Alexandra Williams

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 515 words

HIGHLIGHT: BLUNDERS: US special forces in Afghanistan


ISRAEL'S version of the SAS has been called in to help America's bungling Delta
Force special units, it was reported last night.

The claim came as further details surfaced of a botched US mission in
Afghanistan which came close to disaster.

The Sayeret Matkal, also known as Unit 262, is Israel's fearsome special
operations squad with a history of assassinations and the theft of foreign
signals-intelligence materials and nuclear weaponry.

It apparently began training with US units last week. Renowned US investigative
reporter Seymour Hersh said the Israeli aid came in the wake of the October 20
debacle in Afghanistan, when Delta Force soldiers came under ferocious Taliban
fire.

Twelve of the team were said to have been injured, three of them seriously. One
soldier's foot was blown off as the force of the Taliban resistance, ready and
waiting for the attack, caught US commandos unawares.

An officer said: "It was like an ambush. The Taliban were fighting with light
arms and either rocket-propelled grenades or mortars."

The intensity and ferocity of the Taliban response "scared the crap out of
everyone," the officer is quoted as saying.

The botched mission has led to a complete rethink in planning future operations.

And it has prompted the Pentagon's civilian leadership to voice doubts over
whether war commander General Tommy Franks is up to the job.

Delta Force reached Mullah Omar's house, but it had been stripped of anything
that may have benefited allied intelligence gathering.

A simultaneous raid by Army Rangers on a Kandahar airstrip was carried out only
after forward troops had checked the area.

It was mainly for the benefit of the cameras, it is claimed, and was a noisy
affair involving the back-up of 200 rangers, AC-130 gunships and 100 Delta Force
commandos.

One commentator said: "The mission was laid on like General Motors coming to the
Afghan war, like we did in Vietnam."

The botched mission was not the first in American military history...

Iran 1980: Helicoptors got lost in a sandstorm, broke down and hit a refuelling
aircrafet as Delta Force failed to free Americans from the US Embassy in Tehran.

Iraq 1991: More than 800 soldiers hunting for Iraqi Scud missile launchers
during the conflict failed to find a single one.

Somalia 1993: US special forces arrested UNemployees and blew up buildings in
error in Mogadishu as Delta Force tried to snatch warlord Mohammed Atef but
targeted a UN building instead. Eighteen soldiers died and more than 1,200
Somalians died as they were used as human shields by guerrillas.

Sayeret Matkal has a far more chilling CV. It has taken part in anti and
counter-terrorist operations, including the storming of a Boeing 707 held by
Black September terrorists in 1972 and the killing of a gang of bus hijackers in
the Gaza Strip.

But the unit is best known for storming a hijacked Air France airliner forced
down by six Palestinian terrorists at Entebbe International Airport in Uganda in
1976 after taking off from Tel Aviv with 98 passengers.

LOAD-DATE: November 7, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                            Copyright 2001 MGN Ltd.

                              22 of 251 DOCUMENTS



                                   The Mirror

                          November 7, 2001, Wednesday

WAR ON TERROR: ASIANS ATTACK CHURCH

BYLINE: Liz Hull

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 218 words

HIGHLIGHT: SCARE: Rev Tooby


A VICAR had stones and racial abuse hurled at him as he tried to stop a gang of
Asian youths burning down his church.

Rev Tony Tooby caught the yobs trying to set his 150-year-old church alight but
fled when they turned on him.

More than 50 Asians chanted "Get the white b*****d" as they threw rocks and
fireworks at the father-of-two.

Rev Tooby, 43, said yesterday he feared the attack could be linked to the war on
terrorism.

He said: "When some people see what is happening in Pakistan it does affect the
young."

The gang burned an altar cloth and chairs, set off fireworks and broke a stained
glass window in the attack on St Phillip's Church in Bradford.

A rock smashed Rev Tooby's rear windscreen as he fled to find police nearby who
went straight to the scene.

Rev Tooby vowed to continue to work with the Muslim community to improve
relations.

He said: "It was an act by mindless yobs but more than 99 per cent of the Asian
and Muslim community are superb.

"Acts like this hurt us but strengthen our resolve to work together."

Sher Azam, of Bradford Council of Mosques, said: "We condemn any attack on
churches or other places of worship.

"Whoever is responsible should be punished for this barbaric act.

"We will work to maintain harmony in the city."

LOAD-DATE: November 7, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                            Copyright 2001 MGN Ltd.

                              23 of 251 DOCUMENTS

                            Birmingham Evening Mail

                           November 8, 2001, Thursday

SINN FEIN IN CAR BOMB OUTCRY;
 PARTY REFUSES TO CONDEMN TERROR ATTACK

BYLINE: Boris Worrall CONTROVERSIAL: Assembly member Alex Maskey

SECTION: Pg. 1

LENGTH: 463 words


SINN Fein, the political arm of the IRA, today sparked a row after refusing to
condemn Saturday's terrorist car bomb attack in Birmingham.

When the Evening Mail asked for a statement on the attack, all Alex Maskey, the
controversial party's West Belfast Assembly member, would say was that it had to
be shown that politics could resolve conflict. But neither Mr Maskey nor anyone
at Sinn Fein's head office would openly denounce the bungled attack, blamed on
the dissident Real IRA group.

Andrew McKay, the former MP for Stechford, Birmingham and now Shadow Northern
Ireland Secretary, said: 'It is most unfortunate that Sinn Fein is not prepared
to unconditionally condemn this very serious attack which could have killed a
large number of innocent people.

'It throws into question their commitment to the Peace Process and the future
decommissioning of the IRA's illegally held arms.'

The Bishop of Birmingham, the Rt Rev Mark Santer, said: 'There can be no
equivocation about this failure to condemn the bombing.

'Sinn Fein cannot shilly-shally

when it comes to bombs. The time has come for Sinn Fein to decide what side they
are on.'

And Birmingham Tory Group leader Coun David Roy said: 'This was a despicable act
which could have left many dead and injured.

'I am disappointed that Sinn Fein will not condemn this outright. The only way
forward for progress is dialogue.'

The row came as police confirmed that hundreds of people could have been maimed
or killed if the 40kg bomb had detonated properly in Smallbrook Queensway just
before 10.40pm on Saturday night.

Mr Maskey's full statement to the Evening Mail read: 'Last weekend's car bomb in
Birmingham show us clearly that there are still people who are opposed to the
Peace Process and opposed to the Good Friday Agreement.

'It is incumbent on all of us in political leadership to make it clear that
politics can work and politics can deliver change.

'This means engaging in the political institutions fully and achieving the
implementation of the agreement in full.'

We contacted Sinn Fein's head office, and asked for a full clarification of the
statement, also inviting the party to condemn any violence.

The party's response said: 'A statement has been provided and it is up to you
how you interpret that.'

Politicians expressed concern over the Birmingham car bomb in Parliament
yesterday.

Labour's Walsall North MP David Winnick said: 'Is it not a particular obscenity
to try and bomb Birmingham where in November, 1974, 21 totally innocent people
were butchered?

'The so-called Real IRA are who go against the mandate of the people in the
Republic who made it perfectly clear that they support, by overwhelming
majority, the Good Friday Agreement.'

LOAD-DATE: November 9, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

               Copyright 2001 Midland Independent Newspapers plc

                              24 of 251 DOCUMENTS

                           Coventry Evening Telegraph

                           November 8, 2001, Thursday

WAR ON TERRORISM: AIR BOSS ATTACKS 'PLANE SCARED' STARS ROLE MODEL: Bruce Willis

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 145 words


BRITISH AIRWAYS boss Rod Eddington has branded Hollywood stars who refuse to fly
because of the September 11 terror attacks "gutless cowards."

Speaking on Concorde's comeback flight to New York, the BA chief executive said
he was "disgusted" that celebrities were refusing to fly, adding they were
setting a bad example to the travelling public.

Speaking to Mirror editor Piers Morgan, Mr Eddington said the behaviour of
Hollywood stars was "quite pathetic."

Referring to Bruce Willis, Mr Eddington said: "This is a guy who makes movies
like Die Hard in which he's always the hero who races into skyscrapers saving
the world.

"But in real life he's too scared to fly in a plane. Not much of a daredevil
really, is he?

"People like him should be out there setting an example to people. Willis and
his acting colleagues are powerful role models."

LOAD-DATE: November 9, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

                   Copyright 2001 Coventry Newspapers Limited

                              25 of 251 DOCUMENTS



                                  EGi Web News

                                November 8, 2001

US terrorist attacks cost Royal Sun Alliance £200m

SECTION: EGi News

LENGTH: 539 words


Insurance giant Royal & Sun Alliance today showed the cost of the 11 September
terror attacks on the business.

RSA said £200m had been wiped off its third-quarter figures because of costs
incurred following the destruction of the World Trade Center.

It meant group operating result for the nine months to 30 September was £321m -
compared with £502m in the same period last year.

RSA said: "The group operating result at £321m was severely impacted by our
estimated costs of £200m from the World Trade Center disaster.

"This has masked the good performance of many parts of our general insurance
business.''

Since the terror attacks, the price of non-life insurance premiums has been on
the up.

Chief executive Bob Mendselsohn said the firm was aiming to cash in by raising
capital to fund growth.

The fund-raising will be done in the three parts, the first of which will be
cutting back the dividend to 16p for 2002 and beyond.

Mendselsohn said this was "still a healthy yield for an insurance stock'' but
meant the group would be able to retain more profits.

RSA is expecting to raise around £150m by trimming the dividend.

The firm will also cut the levels of risk in underwriting and investment
portfolios by reducing investments in equities.

Global equities markets are currently very volatile and Mendselsohn said
investments would be scaled back over the next 18 months as and when markets
improve.

The final step will be raising £800m via the sale and discontinuation of
non-core businesses during the next 12 months.

Mendselsohn said the £800m would support £2bn-worth of potential premium growth.

During the nine months to 30 September, RSA wrote general business net premiums
of £6.67bn, up on last year's figure of £6.33bn.

Life business net premiums written decreased from £2.48bn to £2.27bn.

Mendselsohn said this was indicative of the group's long-term strategy to scale
back its life business.

RSA's underlying combined ratio for the nine month period was 103.6% and 103.2%
for the third quarter.

This meant that for every £1 RSA received from customers, it paid out £1.04
during the nine months and £1.03 in the most recent quarter in costs and claims.

An analyst said the group aimed to get its combined ration down to 103%, which
he said was a good level given the group's business mix.

RSA shares sparked 10p or 3% at 392p in early trading.

EGi News 08/11/01







Shareholders of retail giant Kingfisher this weekend urgently requested
designated chairman Francis Mackay to push chief executive Geoff Mulcahy towards
retirement.

Investors are believed to be disillusioned with Mulcahy following Kingfisher's
low performance against the stock market over the past 18 months. They are
thought to be demanding a replacement for him within a year. Mackay is due to
succeed John Banham as Kingfisher chairman on December 7.

As part of dedicated restructuring of the group, Kingfisher is also rumoured to
be mulling the sale-and-leaseback of its B&Q stores and a handful of other
properties in a deal which would net the company around £1bn.

The move follows Kingfisher's £600m deal with London & Regional earlier this
year, which saw the retail group part with the freeholds of 182 Woolworths
stores before floating Woolies off earlier in the Summer.

LOAD-DATE: October 12, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication


                 Copyright  2001 Reed Business Information Ltd.
                              All rights reserved

                              26 of 251 DOCUMENTS

                             The Guardian (London)

                                November 8, 2001

Attack on Afghanistan: Terror: Bin Laden network 'plotted hundreds of attacks':
Book reveals plans to bomb 14 US embassies

BYLINE: Julian Borger in Washington

SECTION: Guardian Home Pages, Pg. 6

LENGTH: 482 words


The attacks on US targets culminating in the September 11 suicide hijackings
were only a fraction of the onslaught planned by Osama bin Laden and al-Qaida,
it emerged yesterday.

Over the past three years, US intelligence detected plots against US embassies
in 14 countries, mostly in Asia and Africa, and there were at least 600 more
"credible threats" of attacks. Some were thwarted by arrests or stepped up
security. Others appear to have been suspended or may still be pending.

The global extent of al-Qaida's terrorist ambitions is revealed in a new book
about Bin Laden by Peter Bergen, CNN's terrorism analyst, who interviewed the
Saudi fugitive in Afghanistan in 1997. The book, Holy War Inc. - Inside the
Secret World of Osama bin Laden, portrays al-Qaida as a multinational
corporation with "investments" in terrorist cells all over the world. Mr Bergen
argues that if Bin Laden is killed in the war in Afghanistan, other members of
the network will take his place, including possibly his son Mohammed, or the
"eminence grise" of the organisation, Ayman al-Zawahiri.

For about a year, Bin Laden kept in touch with his empire through a
computer-sized satellite telephone bought from a New York company for Dollars
7,500 in 1996, but he soon became aware his conversations were being intercepted
by US satellites. Since then, Mr Bergen writes, he has been communi cating by
radio or in person, rendering the huge US surveillance operation largely futile.

According to the book, al-Qaida plotted attacks on three US embassies this year,
in Yemen, Bangladesh and India. The Indian plot, which had been two years in the
making, was foiled by the arrest of two men in New Delhi with six kilos of high
explosive. The mastermind behind the attack, Mohamed Omar al-Harazi, was also
the cell operations leader in the attack on the US warship Cole last year.

Mr Bergen reports that, although there were several arrests in Yemen for the
Cole attack, the FBI was prevented by the local authorities from extending the
investigation to include members of the government, and an army general related
to President Salih, whom the bureau suspected of involvement in the plot.

Holy War Inc. plays down the CIA's role in creating the Afghan-based Islamic
terrorist groups during the 1980s when they were supported by the US in their
war against Soviet occupation. Instead, the CIA handed Pakistani intelligence
service, the ISI, Dollars 3bn to distribute among the various anti-Soviet
groups. It was ISI's decision to use it to fund Islamic zealots.

During the war against the Soviet army, Bin Laden had closer links with Saudi
intelligence, Mr Bergen reports. In particular, Bin Laden worked closely with
Prince Turki al-Faisal Saud, the head of Saudi intelligence. During that period,
he argues, Bin Laden was "effectively working as an arm of Saudi intelligence".


LOAD-DATE: November 9, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 2001 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              27 of 251 DOCUMENTS

                            The Independent (London)

                           November 8, 2001, Thursday

TERROR ATTACKS FAIL TO DENT EASYJET PASSENGER GROWTH

BYLINE: Saeed Shah

SECTION: BUSINESS; Pg. 19

LENGTH: 356 words


WHILE BRITISH Airways has seen a collapse in demand, the contrast with no
-frills carriers was highlighted yesterday with the news from easyJet that
passenger numbers in October surged by a third.

Stelios Haji-Ioannou's low-cost operator carried 716,017 passengers last month,
up from 538,508 in October 2000. It meant that 7.3 million passengers flew on
the airline for the year to the end of October. Earlier this week, BA revealed a
25 per cent drop in October traffic.

EasyJet, based in Luton, and its Irish peer, Ryanair, have said that they are
positioned to benefit from difficulties experienced by the big national carriers
in the face of economic slowdown and terrorist attacks. EasyJet has benefited
from piling on capacity over the last year.

Although yesterday's easyJet figures revealed that the load factor - the number
of passengers as a proportion of seats available - slipped to 82.2 per cent last
month, from 85.4 per cent in October 2000, the numbers were well received.
EasyJet shares closed up 5.5 per cent, at 422p. At the end of last month the
company reported annual profits had soared by 82 per cent and it has
subsequently raised pounds 93m to finance aggressive expansion plans.

The no-frills players, which increasingly cater to cost-conscious business
travellers, have slashed fares to keep people flying after September's
horrifying hijackings. But a report from American Express published yesterday
showed that full-service airlines have gone the other way.

Traditional airlines did cut first and business class fares in the first half of
this year but that trend has been reversed since 11 September. American Express,
which has a large corporate travel department, said that the UK recorded the
strongest fare growth in this period. UK first- class fares to North America
climbed 5.2 per cent, while business class fares jumped 6 per cent.

"As demand for air travel has fallen, airlines have been forced to announce
sweeping cuts in capacity and the elimination of many services. The consequence
of which is quite sharp price hikes on certain key routes," the study said.

LOAD-DATE: November 8, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 2001 Independent Print Ltd

                              28 of 251 DOCUMENTS

                                   Irish News

                               November 08, 2001

Loyalists top table for 'terror attacks';

SECTION:  Pg. 1

LENGTH: 399 words


LOYALIST paramilitaries have been responsible for three times as many
paramilitary attacks as republicans this year, security minister Jane Kennedy
revealed yesterday.

The minister told the House of Commons that loyalist paramilitaries had been
responsible for 620 "terrorist attacks" out of a total of 840 incidents this
year.

Republicans, on the other hand, were responsible for 233 attacks since the start
of this year, according to the new statistics.

Replying to MPs at question time in the House of Commons, she called for an end
to all paramilitary activity, preparations for such activity, intimidation,
racketeering and violence.

She said: "Over 840 attempts at terrorist activity have taken place over the
same period. Of those terrorist attempts, 620 were attributed to loyalist
groups."

"We need to tackle terrorist activity. . . whoever is committing it."

The security minister said that although loyalists had carried out more terror
attacks than republicans this year, Northern Ireland's chief constable had told
her that "there has been a real improvement in the situation as a result of the
IRA's decision to decommission a quantity of arms".

She said security was being kept at a level "consistent with the threat posed by
both republican and loyalist dissidents".

North Belfast Democratic Unionist MP Nigel Dodds said he believed the security
threat had not diminished.

He said: "Despite all the talk about decommissioning, the reality on the ground
for many people, especially in north Belfast, is that there is no real
decommissioning."

Mr Dodds called for a timetable for complete and verifiable decommissioning by
the February deadline.

Last night SDLP assembly member for north Belfast Alban Maginness said he was
"not surprised" by the figures.

"It highlights what politicians like myself have been saying for a long time
that there has been an intensive campaign by loyalist paramilitaries - in
particular the UDA - against the Catholic population in north Belfast and other
areas, " Mr Maginness said.

Ms Kennedy also said there had been more than 4,000 applications to the second
round of recruitment to the new Police Service of Northern Ireland.

Last month Secretary of State John Reid declared the UDA and LVF ceasefires over
after a sustained campaign of violence including several murders in recent
months.

LOAD-DATE: November 8, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: 'IMPROVEMENT': Jane Kennedy

                     Copyright 2001 The Irish News Limited

                              29 of 251 DOCUMENTS



                                   The Mirror

                           November 8, 2001, Thursday

WAR ON TERROR: ARAB IS KILLED IN ATTACK ON US BASE

BYLINE: Mark Ellis

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 253 words

HIGHLIGHT: DEAD: The gunman


GUARDS have shot dead a man who opened fire at an airbase used by US forces in
Qatar.

The firefight alarmed delegates gathering in the tiny Gulf state for Friday's
meeting of the World Trade Organisation.

Osama bin Laden has urged Arabs to attack Americans and Westerners have already
been targets.

But last night diplomats played down a link with American attacks in
Afghanistan.

The gunman, named as airforce worker Abdullah Mubarak Tashal al-Hajiri, drove
towards a checkpoint and opened fire in the direction of guards who shot back,
killing him instantly.

Officials denied reports that Americans at the base had been hurt.

Qatari Attorney General Abdullah al-Mal said the shooting appeared to be an
isolated incident and launched a criminal investigation.

Last night al-Hajiri was described as a member of the Qatar air force who had
worked in anti-aircraft defence.

Until yesterday gas-rich Qatar, with a population of only 600,000, has been seen
as an oasis of stability and security.

The US uses the Udeid airbase 25 miles south of the capital Doha under a "times
of need" deal signed just last year but officials refused to say if jets have
flown from there to Afghanistan.

One Asian delegate to the conference said: "Many of us have been very worried
about security. It could even make some ministers stay away, but I hope not."

In Washington, White House spokesman Ari Fleischer said there appeared to be no
link between the shooting and the war on terrorism.

LOAD-DATE: November 8, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                            Copyright 2001 MGN Ltd.

                              30 of 251 DOCUMENTS



                                   The Mirror

                           November 8, 2001, Thursday

US TOUR GIRL TELLS OF KIDNAP TERROR;
 IRISH ATTACKER WANTED SEX

BYLINE: Allison Bray

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 395 words

HIGHLIGHT: GUILTY; Fitzgerald terrified the tourist; VICTIM; Gallucci escaped
attacker's car


AN American tourist who was abducted after a night on the town has spoken for
the first time about her terrifying ordeal.

Elizabeth Gallucci, 30, flew back from her home in Boston to testify against her
attacker, IT worker Barry Fitzgerald, 31, who was jailed for five years last
week for false imprisonment.

Fitzgerald, of Mortello Rd, Dalkey, took the tourist to his home against her
will. They struggled after he made an unsuccessful pass at her.

Then he drove her at high speed around the Wicklow mountains, where he attempted
to get her to have sex with him in return for taking her back to her hotel.

Elizabeth said: "It was very dark and there were a lot of woods. There were no
cars on the roads. I asked him just to let me out and I would figure my own way
home.

"He refused and told me he would let me out of the car if I touched him and let
him touch me.

"He told me if I did what he wanted me to do, he would let me go. At one point
he apologised again and asked: 'Did you think I was going to rape you?'"

When Fitzgerald drove up to an intersection Elizabeth thought she saw a Garda
car or a taxi and tried to grab the car horn to raise the alarm. The pair
struggled at the wheel.

He swerved the car and Elizabeth escaped. She then ran to a house and raised the
alarm.

Elizabeth said: "A wonderful couple let me into their home and called the police
for me."

The woman's ordeal began when she and a group of girlfriends met Fitzgerald with
his mates in Temple Bar.

She said: "We went on to a nightclub, his friends got lost in the crowd. He
offered me a lift home."

Elizabeth got into the car but soon realised that they were headed in the wrong
direction.

She said: "He insisted we go for coffee but I wanted to go to my hotel."

Fitzgerald drove her to his house where Elizabeth asked for a phone book so she
could call a taxi.

Fitzgerald made a play for her. When she refused, he went wild.

She said: "He got very violent, we started to struggle. I was terrified and
started screaming. He tried to clamp his hand over my mouth.

She said: "Then he was very apologetic and sincere. He said he'd drive me back
to the hotel."

But it was then that the nightmare drive in the mountains began.

Elizabeth said: "I would have never come back to Ireland but for the Gardai.
They were fantastic."

LOAD-DATE: November 8, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                            Copyright 2001 MGN Ltd.

                              31 of 251 DOCUMENTS

                UK Newsquest Regional Press - This is Lancashire

                                November 8, 2001

Terror attacks risk hits airport.

BYLINE: Rachel Sills

SECTION: News

LENGTH: 49 words

DATELINE: Bolton



HOLIDAYMAKERS fearing possible terrorist attacks are not booking holidays abroad
- causing passenger levels at Manchester Airport to fall, the BEN can reveal.

Click "http:/
/www.thisisbolton.co.uk/lancashire/bolton/news/specialfour.html"HERE for
reporter Paul Britton's special reports

LOAD-DATE: November 8, 2001

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: News

                  Copyright 2001 NewsQuest Media Group Limited

                              32 of 251 DOCUMENTS

                UK Newsquest Regional Press - This is Wiltshire

                                November 8, 2001

Firebomb attack terrorises couple .

BYLINE: Wantage staff reporter (author email wantage@nqo.com)

SECTION: News

LENGTH: 413 words

DATELINE: Trowbridge


A TERROR gang has brought fear to a Trowbridge estate after a petrol bomb was
hurled into a petrified couple's home in a Halloween attack.


Fire experts say Michael and Pam Townsend were only saved from the full blast of
the potentially lethal Molotov cocktail because it exploded against the window
of their Studley Green bungalow rather than smashing through it.


Station Officer Dick Chew said: "Had it gone through the window into the house
it would have been an inferno. We could have been dealing with charred remains."


The couple sat chatting to a friend when the petrol bomb was hurled into their
Westfield Road home just after 9pm.


The blast set fire to the curtains and Mr Townsend, 59, was burned on his hands
as he fought to put the flames out. His wife, who is 54 and has a heart
condition, was so traumatised by the attack she had to be taken to hospital.


The couple say they have been targeted by a gang but will not be driven out of
the home they have lived in for nine years.


Mr Townsend said: "It has been going on for about a week. Hours before this
happened something was thrown against the door. I went to look and when I opened
it, I was pelted with eggs.


"They have been kicking the front door, they pinched the gate and they tried to
take the trailer I have in the garden. Then they did this to us. My wife is
terrified. Neither of us got much sleep after it happened. We are both very
upset and it really shook us up. We have no idea why they have picked on us, but
we're not going anywhere, we like it here."


Estate residents have reported a spate of recent attacks including a car having
its brake cables cut.


PC Nigel Bullimore said the firebomb attack was a dreadful incident. "It could
have been much worse. They had a very narrow escape," he said.


West Wiltshire Housing Society spokesman Ellie Phillips said: "Our concern is
obviously with our tenants and we have responded immediately by sending a
housing officer out to see them and see what they need.


"We are very upset this has happened and will be liaising closely with the
police."


The police are keen to hear from the driver of a silver Ford who stopped and
spoke to Mr Townsend after the attack.


PC Bullimore said: "He stopped to see if they were all right then left. We are
keen to hear from him as he may have vital information."


l Anyone with information should contact PC Bullimore on (01225) 763101.

LOAD-DATE: November 8, 2001

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: News

                  Copyright 2001 NewsQuest Media Group Limited

                              33 of 251 DOCUMENTS

                          THE DAILY TELEGRAPH(LONDON)

                           November 09, 2001, Friday

Royal & Sun Alliance cuts dividend Insurer to shave pounds 150m from last year's
pounds 372m payout to boost underwriting after the terrorist attacks

BYLINE: By Andrew Cave Associate City Editor

SECTION: Pg. 33

LENGTH: 542 words

INSURER Royal & Sun Alliance is to cut its dividend by more than a third as it
prepares to ramp up underwriting capacity following the terrorist attacks on New
York.

Royal warned yesterday that the dividend, raised by 5pc to 26p a share in March,
will be cut by up to 10p to shave pounds 150m from last year's pounds 372m
payout.

It plans to raise another pounds 800m from disposals, while pounds 600m of
capital put aside to support equity investments will be released as Royal
switches pounds 2 billion from shares into less volatile bonds.

This pounds 1.55 billion will be used to boost Royal's insurance capacity to
pounds 10 billion in anticipation of a surge in premiums next year. The dividend
yield will fall from 7.5pc to 4.5pc.

Chief executive Bob Mendelsohn said: "We had one of the highest yields in the
FTSE 100. We have been paying extraordinarily high dividends for the last few
years because we did not have a strong case to put extra cash into the business.
Now we have.

"You look back at the history of the UK dividend and when people cut them it is
usually because they have their backs to the wall.

"But we can make a very compelling case that we were returning an element of
capital with the old dividend.

"With the new dividend, we are setting a level that is appropriate for a company
of our size."

He denied that Royal had been planning a pounds 2 billion rights issue, saying:
"You go to shareholders only if you can't raise the cash yourself.

"A heck of a lot of people would rather see the money reinvested into the
business than we pay out the dividend, they pay tax on it and then we ask for it
back in a rights issue."

Operating profits for the first nine months of the year fell from pounds 502m to
pounds 321m, after a pounds 200m charge for the New York attacks.

Referring to the insurance industry's losses from the atrocities, Mr Mendelsohn
said: "There is a reduction in supply of $40 billion. The capital that has gone
from the industry will not support underwriting next year.

"Companies who are well-positioned are going to be in an environment where rates
are a lot higher."

Royal's shares added 21p to 403p yesterday and Mr Mendelsohn said the dividend
cut had been "well supported" by the City.

A Royal spokesman described as "nonsense" reports that Mr Mendelsohn, appointed
chief executive four years ago, was under pressure to leave following the
difficulties the group has had integrating Royal Insurance with Sun Alliance.

Mr Mendelsohn refused to specify which operations will be sold. He said 23
businesses have been sold since he arrived in November 1997 and several general
and life insurance divisions had been identified as "non-core".

Royal has been examining options for its life and pensions business and had been
hoping to announce a way of extracting value from these operations before the
end of this year.

It has investigated options including securitising some of the revenues and held
takeover talks with potential bidders understood to include Dutch insurer Aegon
and America's GE Capital.

However, Mr Mendelsohn said the New York attacks and the sharp decline in world
stock markets this year made a sale unattractive in present conditions.
[PS]City: [ES]

LOAD-DATE: November 9, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 2001 Telegraph Group Limited

                              34 of 251 DOCUMENTS



                                   The Mirror

                            November 9, 2001, Friday

WAR ON TERROR: GARDA: RISE IN RACIAL ATTACKS

BYLINE: Caoimhe Young

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 19

LENGTH: 191 words


THERE has been an increase in racist attacks in Ireland since the September 11
attacks, according to a report released yesterday.

Abusive phone-calls, verbal insults to women in Islamic dress and physical
assaults were all recorded by the Garda.

The National Consultative Committee on Racism and Interculturalism report said
Irish people have targeted members of the Islamic community since the war began.

These included visitors to Ireland, migrant workers, refugees and asylum
seekers.

The statistics show there were 41 reports of racial abuse and violence between
May and October.

Gardai have also closed down internet websites for incitement to hatred.
However, they have reappeared with slight changes to their name.

Sergeant Dave McInerney said that although the figures showed a rise in racial
incidents the Muslim community was pleased with the support it had received.

He added: "Every person in Ireland has the same rights and we want non
-nationals to know that."

Garda Commissioner Pat Byrne is set to announce plans to appoint one officer to
racial relations duty in every station in the country.

LOAD-DATE: November 9, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                            Copyright 2001 MGN Ltd.

                              35 of 251 DOCUMENTS

                     Belfast News Letter (Northern Ireland)

                          November 10, 2001, Saturday

WAR ON TERRORISM: JAPANESE SET SAIL TO SUPPORT ATTACKS

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 281 words


HUNDREDS of Japanese sailors in a small flotilla of warships were heading for
the Indian Ocean yesterday , honouring Japan's pledge to back US-led forces in
the war against terrorism.

It was Japan's first military contingent since World War II to be deployed in
support of forces in combat.

Ten years ago, Japan agreed to send minesweepers to the Persian Gulf but only
after the Gulf War was over.

"This mission is a first but we are trained to be able to respond to whatever
contingencies may arise," said Rear Admiral Hirotaka Honda.

The mission follows weeks of debate in parliament.

Opponents at home and in Asian nations that suffered the brunt of Japanese
militarism during World War II fear it could be a first step towards loosening
constitutional constraints on Japan's armed forces.

The 5,200-ton destroyer Kurama, the 4,550-ton destroyer Kirisame and the 8,100
-ton supply ship Hamana were sent on a reconnaissance mission in preparation for
a planned dispatch of other naval units under a new law that allows Japan's
self-defence forces to participate in a back-up role in the war against
terrorism.

The vessels carrying 700 sailors left from a Japanese base at Sasebo, 614 miles
south west of Tokyo shortly before 7am yesterday.

They will sail through the Strait of Malacca, government and military officials
said.

As early as December, Japan's navy is expected to begin transporting supplies
and fuel for allied forces operating in Afghanistan.

Prime minister Junichiro Koizumi convened his security council to approve orders
to send the three warships to scout routes and gather other information that
will be used in planning.

LOAD-DATE: November 21, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

                   Copyright 2001 Century Newspapers Limited

                              36 of 251 DOCUMENTS

                            Daily Post (North Wales)

                          November 10, 2001, Saturday

WEEKEND OF MISERY AS FACTORY STAFF AWAIT THEIR FATE;
 TERROR ATTACKS ON AMERICA CATCH UP WITH NORTH WALES

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 344 words


TREFN worker Richard Kinnair summed up the despair of redundancy in North East
Wales yesterday.

Just months after being axed from Corus' Shotton Steelworks, Mr Kinnair, from
Flint, thought he had found job security.

Last night, he said: "I've only recently been made redundant. I lost my job in
July. I've only been working here for four months so this has come as a shock."

He was part of an army of gloomy workers leaving Trefn Engineering yesterday
facing uncertain futures.

The company has not decided yet how the 124 redundancies will be made - whether
by a straightforward last in, first out, or by a points system.

Most were going home yesterday to face a miserable weekend, contemplating how
they would cope with mortgage payments and family commitments if they lost their
jobs.

Kevin Jones, of Wrexham, is an estimator in the Treatments division and has
worked at Trefn for 14 years.

"We could see this coming to some extent, " he said. "I work in the office and
knew the enquiries were steadily dropping. We didn't know there would be this
many.

"The Treatments is probably better placed than the others because we might be
able to get more work in. I don't know whether my job will go at the moment."

David Bunn, of Bebington, said:

"This came as a shock. I came here a few years ago thinking I would have a job
for life now we've just lost a third of the workforce. I feel very sorry for the
youngsters here."

David Wynne, of Gwersyllt, has worked at Trefn for 10 years.

"I'm married with a young family and a big mortgage, " he said. "The atmosphere
inside is not very good. What can I say?"

Phil Roach, of Llay, has 22 years service.

"I thought in our section there would be about 20 jobs going but there are 46. I
don't think there will be that many voluntary redundancies. Yes, it's come just
before Christmas, that's the way of the world."

Simon Owens, of Llay, added: "I was shocked like everyone else. I didn't expect
that many to go. It's bad news, but there's nothing we can do about it."

LOAD-DATE: November 10, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: BLOW: The Trefn Engineering factory where 124 workers are to lose their
jobs DISMAYED: (Clockwise from above) Trefn Engineering workers Simon; Owens,
David Wynne, Richard Kinnair, David Bunn and Phil Roach Pictures:; VIC CLEVELEY
Picture: GERALLT RADCLIFFE

               Copyright 2001 The Liverpool Daily Post & Echo Ltd

                              37 of 251 DOCUMENTS

                            Daily Post (North Wales)

                          November 10, 2001, Saturday

...AND US TERROR ATTACKS CATCH UP WITH LOCAL AIRCRAFT INDUSTRY

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 313 words


NORTH Wales' aircraft industry suffered its first jobs blow following the US
terror attacks yesterday - with the threat of worse to come.

Stunned workers at Llaybased Trefn Engineering were yesterday told 124 jobs were
to be axed, as the industry struggles to adjust to the post-September 11 slump.
The figure was twice as many as expected.

And at BAE System's Airbus wing-making factory in Broughton came the first hint
job losses could be on the way.

Union leaders admitted they were taken by surprise at the scale of job losses at
Trefn, which carries out contract work for Airbus and Shorts of Belfast.

At Airbus, the mood was upbeat yesterday following a visit by Welsh Secretary
Paul Murphy.

Manufacturing director Brian Fleet said: "I would be disappointed if we have too
many job losses."

Phil Underwood, operations manager for Trefn's parent company, Trim Engineering
Group, told the workforce the events of September 11 had resulted in major
customers reducing their orders by pounds 8m or 22pc.

"This reduced level of business activity is insufficient to sustain the current
employment levels across the group, " he said.

Llay has three sites: Trefn Engineering, which will lose 46 jobs; Trefn
Fabrications, which will lose 43 jobs, and Trefn Treatments, which will make 35
redundant. This is from an overall workforce of about 400. The company has three
further factories in the south of England which will lose a total of 31 staff.

It is understood the biggest blow to Trefn came from the loss of work for Shorts
of Belfast, which has made about 1,800 of its own workers redundant.

Alwyn Rowlands, full-time engineering union official for AEEU, said yesterday:
"While we anticipated job losses at Trefn the figure has taken us by surprise.
We will be looking at this with the company and looking at ways of overcoming
this."

LOAD-DATE: November 10, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: UPBEAT: Welsh Secretary Paul Murphy after his meeting at BAE; Picture:
STACEY ROBERTS

               Copyright 2001 The Liverpool Daily Post & Echo Ltd

                              38 of 251 DOCUMENTS

                                  Western Mail

                          November 10, 2001, Saturday

DOOMSDAY SCENARIO FOR TERROR ATTACK HELPS DOCTORS AS CASUALTIES POUR IN;
  MORRISTON HOSPITAL: A&E CLEARED OF NON-URGENT CASES AND SPECIALIST TEAMS SWING
INTO ACTION

BYLINE: Robin Turner

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 574 words


PREPARATIONS for a terrorist attack helped the surgeons now operating on
steelworkers injured in the Port Talbot explosion to cope with the casualties as
they arrived.

The management team at Morriston Hospital, Swansea, had devised a plan to deal
with a mass outbreak of anthrax and it was put into action as soon as news of
the scale of the steelworks emergency arrived.

As a fleet of 10 ambulances headed across Swansea Bay from Port Talbot, the
hospital's accident and emergency unit was immediately cleared of patients not
in need of the most urgent attention.

The space was occupied by specialist teams, one for each patient, led by an
anaesthetist to immediately relieve agonising pain caused by exposure to the
1,000C heat generated by number five blast furnace.

Dozens of off-duty doctors and specialist nurses rushed to the hospital after
being alerted by bleeper as part of the "doomsday" plan and radio and television
appeals were broadcast urging people to keep clear of the hospital.

The consultant in charge of the accident and emergency unit, Mike McCabe, sped
to the steelworks to make an on-the-spot judgment of the type of facilities that
would be needed at Morriston.

Some of the 13 casualties had broken limbs after being hurled through the air by
the force of the exploding molten metal and some had lost as much as half of
their body skin.

Eleven were transferred to the Welsh Centre for Burns and Plastic Surgery next
door, one of the most up-to-date in Europe, which was purpose-built after the
burns unit was removed from St Lawrence Hospital, Chepstow, in 1994.

Yesterday the seven consultants at the burns unit were using a newlydesigned
artificial skin which helps burns to heal and reduces the chances of infection,
a major threat to burns victims.

The unit's consultant plastic surgeon and clinical director, Hamish Laing, said,
"This centre was specifically designed to be able to cope with major disasters
of the type sadly seen on Thursday because of the high number of chemical and
industrial works in South Wales."

Mr McCabe said a detailed plan had been drawn together after the September 11
terrorism attacks in the United States and the subsequent wave of anthrax cases.

"Very often the A&E department is full of people with minor complaints who
should not be there, " he said. "We worked quickly to clear the department and
patients were cascaded into other hospitals and we used radio and television
appeals for people to stay away from the hospital, just as we planned, making
our job much easier.

"All in all the plan worked well. In fact there was an emergency-plan exercise
carried out just last Monday."

Prospect of months in hospital SOME of the Port Talbot burns victims will be in
hospital for months and will require advanced, complicated operations, says the
head of plastic surgery at Morriston Hospital, Hamish Laing.

Artificial skin will also be used to help treat them.

Four of the patients are on lifesupport machines and three others are in a low
-dependency unit.

Mr Laing said, "The injuries are complicated.

"Some have suffered from the blast itself and the intense heat.

"On top of that there is the effect on the lungs of inhaling hot, toxic gases
and the results that can follow for the body's major organs.

"Added to this is the consequence of being blown through the air such as broken
bones and dislocations."

LOAD-DATE: November 10, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: INVESTIGATION: Firefighters and Health and Safety Executive inspectors
examining number 5 blast furnace at the Corus steelworks in Port; Talbot
yesterday after the explosion on Thursday which killed two men, injured 13 and
left twisted metal and gaping holes (inset) in the structure

                    Copyright 2001 Western Mail and Echo Ltd

                              39 of 251 DOCUMENTS

                                  The Observer

                               November 11, 2001

Focus Special: The Terrorism Crisis: THE IRAQI CONNECTION: Iraq is the target of
American hawks who see its hand in terrorist attacks. But what is the evidence?
After a month-long investigation, David Rose reports on the links between Saddam
and the 11 September hijackers

BYLINE: David Rose

SECTION: Observer News Pages, Pg. 15

LENGTH: 2565 words


HIS FRIENDS call him Abu Amin, 'the father of honesty'. At 43, he is one of
Iraq's most highly decorated intelligence officers: a special forces veteran who
organised killings behind Iranian lines during the first Gulf war, who then went
on to a senior post in the unit known as 'M8' - the department for 'special
operations', such as sabotage, terrorism and murder. This is the man, Colonel
Muhammed Khalil Ibrahim al-Ani, whom Mohamed Atta flew halfway across the world
to meet in Prague last April, five months before piloting his hijacked aircraft
into the World Trade Centre.

Evidence is mounting that this meeting was not an isolated event. The Observer
has learnt that Atta's talks with al-Ani were only one of several apparent links
between Iraq, the 11 September hijackers and Osama bin Laden's al-Qaeda network.
Senior US intelligence sources say the CIA has 'credible information' that in
the spring of this year, at least two other members of the hijacking team also
met known Iraqi intelligence agents outside the United States. They are believed
to be Atta's closest associates and co-leaders, Marwan al-Shehri and Ziad
Jarrah, the other two members of the 'German cell ' who lived with Atta in
Hamburg in the late 1990s.

In the strongest official statement to date alleging Iraqi involvement in the
new wave of anti-Western terrorism, on Friday night Milos Zeman, the Czech Prime
Minister, told reporters and Colin Powell, the US Secretary of State, that the
Czech authorities believed Atta and al-Ani met expressly to discuss a bombing.
He said they were plotting to destroy the Prague-based Radio Free Europe with a
truck stuffed with explosives, adding: 'Yes, you cannot exclude also the
hypothesis that they discussed football, ice hockey, weather and other topics.
But I am not so sure.

In Washington and Whitehall, a furious political battle is raging over the scope
of the anti-terrorist war, and whether it should eventually include action
against Iraq. According to the Foreign Office, British Ministers have responded
to this prospect with 'horror', arguing that an attack on Saddam Hus sein would
cause terrible civilian casualties and cement anti-Western anger across Middle
East.

Meanwhile, Paul Wolfowitz, the US Deputy Defence Secretary, heads a clique of
determined, powerful hawks, most of them outside the administration - among them
James Woolsey, the former director of the CIA. The doves argue that an
al-Qaeda-Iraq link is improbable, given the sharp ideological differences
between Saddam's secular Baathism and Islamic fundamentalism. They also say that
claims of Iraqi involvement are being driven by the agenda of the hawks - a
group which has for years been seeking to finish the job left undone at the end
of the Gulf war in 1991.

Nevertheless, Saddam does not lack a plausible motive: revenge for his expulsion
from Kuwait in 1991, and for the continued sanctions and Western bombing of his
country ever since. In this febrile atmosphere, hard information about who
ordered the 11 September attacks remains astonishingly scarce.

US investigators have traced the movements of the 19 hijackers going back years,
and have amassed a detailed picture of who did what inside the conspiracy. Yet
what lay beyond the hijackers is an intelligence black hole. If they had a
support network in America, none of its members has been traced, and among the
hundreds of telephone records and emails the investigators have recovered,
nothing gets close to identifying those ultimately responsible.

It still seems almost certain, intelligence sources say, that parts of Osama bin
Laden's al-Qaeda network actively backed the conspiracy: about half of the
estimated Dollars 500,000 the hijackers used reportedly came from al-Qaeda
sources, while some of the terrorists are believed to have passed through bin
Laden's camps in Afghanistan. At the same time, however, evidence is emerging of
direct Iraqi links with the US hijackers in particular, and with radical Islamic
terror groups in general.

In the early period after the attacks, Western intelligence agencies said they
knew of nothing to suggest an Iraqi connection. That position has now changed. A
top US analyst - a serving intelligence official with no connection to the
'hawks' around Wolfowitz - told The Observer : 'You should think of this thing
as a spectrum: with zero Iraqi involvement at one end, and 100 per cent Iraqi
direction and control at the other. The scenario we now find most plausible is
somewhere in the middle range - significant Iraqi assistance and some
involvement.'

Last night, Whitehall sources made clear that parts of British intelligence had
reached the same conclusion. Uncomfortable as it may be, this reassessment is
having a political impact. Last month, when the CIA was still telling him it did
not believe Iraq was involved in 11 September, Powell said there were 'no plans'
to attack Iraq. Last Thursday, speaking in Kuwait, he abruptly reversed his
earlier pronouncements. He promised that after dealing with bin Laden and
Afghanistan, 'we will turn our attention to terrorism throughout the world, and
nations such as Iraq'.

THE FBI IS NOW sure that Atta, the Egyptian who had studied in Germany, was the
hijackers' overall leader. He personally handled more than Dollars 100,000 of
the plot's funds, more than any other conspirator, and he made seven foreign
trips in 2000 and 2001 - all of which appear to have had some operational
significance. Investigators lay heavy stress on a captured al-Qaeda manual which
emphasises the value of conducting discussions about pending terrorist attacks
face to face, rather than by electronic means.

Two of those trips were to meet al-Ani in Prague. The Iraqi's profile has been
supplied by defectors from Saddam's intelligence service, the Mukhabarat, who
are now being guarded by the London-based opposition group, the Iraqi National
Congress (INC). CIA sources have confirmed its crucial details. 'There's really
no doubt that al-Ani is a very senior Iraqi agent,' one source said.

The Observer has interviewed two of the defectors. They began to tell their
stories at the beginning of October, and have been debriefed extensively by the
FBI and the CIA. Al-Ani's experience in covert 'wet jobs' (assassinations),
gives his meetings with Atta a special significance: his expertise was killing.

According to the defectors, he has an unusual ability to change his appearance
and operate under cover. One defector recalls a meeting in the early 1990s when
al-Ani had long, silver hair, and wore jeans, silver chains and sunglasses.
Al-Ani explained he was about to undertake a mission which required him to look
like a Western hippy. A member of Saddam's Baathist party since his youth,
al-Ani also has extensive experience working with radical Islamists such as
Mohamed Atta.

Since the 1980s, Saddam has organised numerous Islamic conferences in Baghdad,
expressly for the Mukhabarat to find foreign recruits. Al-Ani has been seen at
at least two of them. On one occasion, the defectors say, he took on the cover
of a Muslim cleric at a fundamentalists' conference in Karachi, presenting
himself as a delegate from the Iraqi shrine of the Sufi mystic Abdel-Qadir
al-Gaylani, whose followers are numerous in Pakistan.

Last Wednesday, Iraq made its own response to the news of the meetings between
al-Ani and Atta. Tariq Aziz, Saddam's Deputy Prime Minister, denied Iraq had
anything to do with the hijackings, saying: 'Even if that (the meetings)
happened, that would mean nothing, for a diplomat could meet many people during
his duty, whether he was at a restaurant or elsewhere, and even if he met
Mohamed Atta, that would not mean the Iraqi diplomat was involved.'

Yet the striking thing about the meetings is the lengths to which Atta went in
order to attend them. In June last year, he flew to Prague from Hamburg, only to
be refused entry because he had failed to obtain a visa. Three days later, now
equipped with the paperwork, Atta was back for a visit of barely 24 hours. He
flew from the Czech Republic to the US, where he began to train as pilot. In
early April 2001, when the conspiracy's planning must have been nearing its
final stages, Atta was back in Prague for a further brief visit - a journey of
considerable inconvenience.

On 17 April, the Czechs expelled al-Ani, who had diplomatic cover, as a hostile
spy. Last night, a senior US diplomatic source told The Observer that Atta was
not the only suspected al-Qaeda member who met al-Ani and other Iraqi agents in
Prague. He said the Czechs monitored at least two further such meetings in the
months before 11 September.

The senior US intelligence source said the CIA believed that two other
hijackers, al-Shehri and Jarrah, also met known Iraqi intelligence officers
outside the US in the run-up to the atrocities. It is understood these meetings
took place in the United Arab Emirates - where Iraq maintains its largest
'illegal', or non-diplomatic, cover intelligence operation, most of it devoted
to oil exports and busting economic sanctions.

The source added that Egyptian Islamic Jihad, which has now effectively merged
with al-Qaeda, maintained regular contacts with Iraq for many years. He
confirmed the claims first made by the Iraqi National Congress - that towards
the end of 1998, Farouk Hijazi, Iraq's ambassador to Turkey and a key member of
the Mukhabarat leadership - went to Kandahar in Afghanistan, where he met bin
Laden.

THE FBI BELIEVES many of the 11 hijackers who made up the conspiracy's 'muscle',
Saudi Arabians who entered the US at a late stage and whose task was to
overpower the aircrafts' passengers and crew, trained at Afghan camps run by
al-Qaeda. But they have no details: no times or places where any of these
individuals learnt their skills. Meanwhile, it is now becoming clear that
al-Qaeda is not the only organisation providing terrorist training for Muslim
fundamentalists. Since the early 1990s, courses of this type have also been
available in Iraq. At the beginning of October, two INC activists in London
travelled to eastern Turkey. They had been told that a Mukhabarat colonel had
crossed the border through Kurdistan and was ready to defect. The officer -
codenamed Abu Zeinab - had extraordinary information about terrorist training in
Iraq. In a safe house in Ankara, the two London-based activists took down
Zeinab's story. He had worked at a site which was already well known - Salman
Pak, a large camp on a peninsular formed by a loop of the Tigris river south of
Baghdad.

However, what Zeinab had to say about the southern part of the camp was new.
There, he said, separated from the rest of the facilities by a razor-wire fence,
was a barracks used to house Islamic radicals, many of them Saudis from bin
Laden's Wahhabi sect, but also Egyptians, Yemenis, and other non-Iraqi Arabs.

Unlike the other parts of Salman Pak, Zeinab said the foreigners' camp was
controlled directly by Saddam Hussein. In a telephone interview with The
Observer , Zeinab described the culture clash which took place when secular
Baathists tried to train fundamentalists: 'It was a nightmare! A very strange
experience. These guys would stop and insist on praying to Allah five times a
day when we had training to do. The instructors wouldn't get home till late at
night, just because of all this praying.'

Asked whether he believed the foreigners' camp had trained members of al-Qaeda,
Zeinab said: 'All I can say is that we had no structure to take on these people
inside the regime. The camp was for organisations based abroad.' One of the
highlights of the six-month curriculum was training to hijack aircraft using
only knives or bare hands. According to Zeinab, women were also trained in these
techniques. Like the 11 September hijackers, the students worked in groups of
four or five.

In Ankara, Zeinab was debriefed by the FBI and CIA for four days. Meanwhile he
told the INC that if they wished to corroborate his story, they should speak to
a man who had political asylum in Texas - Captain Sabah Khodad, who had worked
at Salman Pak in 1994-5. He too has now told his story to US investigators. In
an interiew with The Observer , he echoed Zeinab's claims: 'The foreigners'
training includes assassinations, kidnapping, hijacking. They were strictly
separated from the rest of us. To hijack planes they were taught to use small
knives. The method used on 11 September perfectly coincides with the training I
saw at the camp. When I saw the twin towers attack, the first thought that came
into my head was, "this has been done by graduates of Salman Pak".'

Zeinab and Khodad said the Salman Pak students practised their techniques in a
Boeing 707 fuselage parked in the foreigners' part of the camp. Yesterday their
story received important corrobo ration from Charles Duelfer, former vice
chairman of Unscom, the UN weapons inspection team.

Duelfer said he visited Salman Pak several times, landing by helicopter. He saw
the 707, in exactly the place described by the defectors. The Iraqis, he said,
told Unscom it was used by police for counter-terrorist training. 'Of course we
automatically took out the word "counter",' he said. 'I'm surprised that people
seem to be shocked that there should be terror camps in Iraq. Like, derrrrrr! I
mean, what, actually, do you expect? Iraq presents a long-term strategic threat.
Unfortunately, the US is not very good at recognising long-term strategic
threats.'

AT THE END of September, Donald Rumsfeld, the far from doveish US Defence
Secretary, told reporters there was 'no evidence' that Iraq was involved in the
atrocities. That judgment is slowly being rewritten.

Many still suspect the anthrax which has so far killed four people in America
has an ultimate Iraqi origin: in contrast to recent denials made by senior FBI
officials, CIA sources say there simply is not enough material to be sure.
However, it does not look likely that the latest anthrax sample, sent to a
newspaper in Karachi, can have come from the source recently posited by the FBI
- a right-wing US militant. 'The sophistication of the stuff that has been found
represents a level of technique and knowledge that in the past has been
associated only with governments,' Duelfer said. 'If it's not Iraq, there aren't
many alternatives.'

If the emerging evidence of Iraqi involvement in 11 September becomes clearer or
more conclusive, the consequences will be immense. In the words of a State
Department spokesman after Powell's briefing by the Czech leader on Friday: 'If
there is clear evidence connecting the World Trade Centre attacks to Iraq, that
would be a very grave development.'

At worst, the anti-terrorist coalition would currently be bombing the wrong
country. At best, the world would see that some of President Bush's closest
advisers - his father, Powell and Vice President Dick Cheney, to name but three
- made a catastrophic error in 1991, when they ended the Gulf war without
toppling Saddam.

The case for trying to remove him now might well seem unanswerable. In that
scenario, the decisions Western leaders have had to make in the past two months
would seem like a trivial prelude.

Additional reporting by Ed Vulliamy in New York and Kate Connolly in Berlin .


LOAD-DATE: November 11, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

                   Copyright 2001 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              40 of 251 DOCUMENTS

                               The Sunday Herald

                               November 11, 2001

Papers suffer as interest in terror attacks wanes

SECTION: Pg. 8

LENGTH: 223 words


THE UK'S daily and Sunday newspapers were unable to sustain the momentum gained
after the public's huge interest in the September 11 attacks. The World Trade
Centre and Pentagon terrorist outrages had given most newspapers an increase in
circulation.

But total circulations for the month of October was 13,438,55 for the national
dailies, a minus 2.6% drop from 13,801,701 in September, according to the latest
Audit Bureau of Circulation figures, while the total Sunday sales dropped minus
1.94% to 14,705,454 from just under 15,000,000 in September.

All daily papers lost ground but The Scotsman was the worst performer with a
minus 6.17% drop, down to a daily sale of 79,660. The paper is down minus 22% on
the year. The Observer was also down by minus 6.04% from 514,117 to 483,062,
while its smaller rival, the Independent on Sunday, made a gain of 5.17% to
260,288 on the back of some heavy promotion.

The best selling daily paper in the UK remains The Sun, which was selling an
average of 3,453,734 a day last month, down minus 3.14% from the previous month,
and minus 3.77% on the year. The glamour and pop tabloid the Daily Star is still
up 12% on the year, with a circulation of 618,604, which has now overtaken
Scotland's biggest selling newspaper, the Daily Record, which has a circulation
of 597,630 a day.

LOAD-DATE: November 15, 2001

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                Copyright 2001 Scottish Media Newspapers Limited

                              41 of 251 DOCUMENTS

                            Birmingham Evening Mail

                           November 12, 2001, Monday

A POIGNANT REMINDER OF US TERROR ATTACKS ON PARADE: West Midlands Police pipe
band. Pictures: John; Reavenall; TRIBUTE: Ronald Tyler with seven-year-old
Daniel Quinton

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 6,7

LENGTH: 272 words


STARS and stripes flags were included in Remembrance Sunday parades across the
Black Country as a poignant memory to the US victims of the September 11
terrorist attacks.

Thousands of people gathered yesterday for prayers and services to remember the
war dead and victims of more recent attacks in New York, Washington and
Pennsylvania.

In Dudley town centre, the American flag was carried at the head of the parade
in an unprecedented move by the council following requests from ex-servicemen.

Mayor's chaplain Janet Fulljames led the memorial in honour of "those who died
in defence of justice and freedom" and gave a special mention to victims of
terrorism around the world.

Remembrance services were also held in each town across Sandwell, Walsall and
Wolverhampton with a US flag and wreath laid at the war memorial in Wednesbury.

Mayor of Dudley, Coun John Walters, said: "Remembrance Sunday is for the fallen
in various conflicts throughout history and I feel it was right this year to
also remember those people who died in the terrible terrorism attacks."

Sandwell's Festival of Remembrance last night brought events to a close with a
musical extravaganza including performances by Black Country Brass, Sutton
Coldfield's Sea Cadet corps of drums and children from Cronehills Primary
School.

Mayor of Sandwell, Lord Tarsem King of West Bromwich, said the Festival of
Remembrance was also dedicated to the US victims.

He said: "It is particularly fitting that we remember all those people who
sacrificed their lives in many conflicts and those who are still sacrificing
their lives today."

LOAD-DATE: November 13, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

               Copyright 2001 Midland Independent Newspapers plc

                              42 of 251 DOCUMENTS

                            Daily Post (North Wales)

                           November 12, 2001, Monday

A DAY TO REMEMBER;
 CROWDS TURN OUT IN RECORD NUMBERS TO PRAY FOR PEACE AFTER TERROR ATTACKS

BYLINE: Gareth Hughes

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 578 words


THE people of North Wales turned out in record numbers yesterday as Remembrance
Day took on a new significance.

The terrorist attacks on September 11 and the war in Afghanistan seemed to have
heightened the need to pray for peace in the world and to acknowledge the debt
to those who lost their lives in earlier conflicts.

In Llandudno, Wrexham, and several other towns and villages, organisers of the
annual services said they were surprised by the large attendances.

Canon Dwyfor Jones, former Vicar of Conwy, told an estimated 4,000 people at
Llandudno's Cenotaph: "November 11 is always stamped on our memory as the end of
World War II but from now on September 11 will also be stamped on our memory
because it marked the beginning of another war - that against terrorism."

The victims of the American tragedies, albeit not servicemen and women and not
killed in action, figured prominently in the minds of many people attending
yesterday's services.

Bill Evans, President of the Llandudno branch of the Royal British Legion, who
organised the service, wanted special recognition for those who died in America.

Alongside the usual Legion wreath, which he laid himself, another was laid in
memory of the 6,000 killed on September 11 by Gareth Evans, one of the younger
members of the RBL Club management.

Llandudno Town Band played the American national anthem before those of Wales
and England. "I sought advice before deciding to go ahead and I am glad that it
was included. It was quite moving, " said Mr Evans.

Canon Jones, who is chaplain of the Legion, said the current war was against
those who had no respect for justice or peace.

"It is not a war against Afghanistan and not a conflict between Christianity and
Islam, but a war of all nations of the world against a common enemy - terrorism,
" he said.

Kevin Blanchfield, field officer for the Royal British Legion in North Wales,
who attended the Wrexham service, said he was conscious of a heightened
awareness of the contribution made by those who had fallen in past conflicts and
the need to campaign for peace.

He said that awareness had shown itself in attendances at yesterday's services
and in people's willingness to contribute to the Legion's Poppy Appeal.

Wrexham MP Ian Lucas and a World War II veteran visited Hafod-y-Wern School
recently to talk to the children about the matter and the Legion has distributed
CD-roms on the subject.

Remembrance Day services in Bangor and Rhyl were also well attended but there
was a special significance for those who attended the service in Blaenau
Ffestiniog. The town's Royal British Legion branch was the second to be
established in Wales.

Welsh date

WALES is to have its own national Remembrance Day service next year.

Since the National Assembly was formed, there has been no official service for
Party leaders even though Cardiff city council, like other authorities
throughout the Principality, has its own service.

A service will be held next year at Llandaff Cathedral which will be attended by
all-Party leaders in the Assembly.

The news was welcomed by Plaid Cymru President Ieuan Wyn Jones.

"We have been asking for this for some time and I am pleased it will now take
place."

Plaid Cymru was not directly represented at yesterday's service at the Cenotaph
in London. Scottish National Party leader Alex Salmond laid a wreath on behalf
of both his own party and Plaid Cymru.

LOAD-DATE: November 12, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: BOWED: Naval veteran Edward Hughes at Llangefni Picture: GERALLT;
RADCLIFFE FALLEN HEROES: A Fire Service representative pays his respects at;
Llangefni Picture: GERALLT RADCLIFFE NEW GENERATION: Laura Williams proudly
wears her poppy Picture: GERALLT JONES STANDARD BEARER: A veteran at the;
Wrexham service Picture: STACEY ROBERTS SOMBRE; A young Scout at Caernarfon;
Picture: GERALLT LLEWELYN DEEP IN THOUGHT: One of the war veterans at;
Llandudno's cenotaph Picture: GERALLT JONES

               Copyright 2001 The Liverpool Daily Post & Echo Ltd

                              43 of 251 DOCUMENTS

                         The Evening Standard (London)

                               November 12, 2001

Court challenge to Blunkett over anti-terror law;
Attack on Afghanistan

BYLINE: Charles Reiss

SECTION: Pg. 2

LENGTH: 762 words


HOME SECRETARY David Blunkett is to face a legal challenge to his plans to lock
up suspected terrorists indefinitely without trial.

Civil rights organisation Liberty announced that it will contest the Home
Secretary's unprecedented move, to be announced later today, to put the UK under
"a state of public emergency".

The organisation's director, John Wadham, said Liberty would seek to challenge
that declaration at the Court of Human Rights in Strasbourg. And he described
the plan to hold suspects without trial, subject only to a review every six
months, as "a fundamental violation of the rule of law, of rights and
traditional values".

Opponents, including Labour and Liberal Democrat MPs, were angered by Mr
Blunkett's declaration yesterday that he would not be deterred by "airy-fairy"
civil libertarians. Liberal Democrat leader Charles Kennedy said his party would
refuse to accept "serious erosion" of basic rights and freedoms and said the
Government must consult. Mr Blunkett, however, is determined to push through
emergency legislation by Christmas.

Although the Government looks assured of broad Tory support and a Commons
majority, much will depend on the weight of opposition from Labour MPs.

Today's declaration is designed to allow the Government to opt out from the
European Convention on Human Rights, which bans detention without trial.

Article 15 of the Convention permits governments to ignore their normal
obligations "in time of war or other public emergencies". Under the proposed new
law, foreign nationals suspected of involvement in terrorism could be detained
or sent to a "safe" third country. They would be held for six months after which
their case would be reviewed by the Special Immigration Appeals Commission with
further reviews every six months.

Suspects would be allowed legal representation but would be permitted to appeal
only on a point of law and, critically, would be barred from seeking judicial
review, a move often used in the past to stop ministers in their tracks.

Mr Blunkett said yesterday that only a small number of people would be detained
under the scheme. But he went on: "I don't give a damn whether it's one, a dozen
or 20; the important thing is that they don't put our lives at risk or enable
others to put peoples' lives at risk elsewhere."

In a separate move, the Government is today bringing forward new powers to
control bureaux de change amid warnings that they are being used to launder vast
sums of "dirty" money, including funding for terrorism.

City must close doors to funds of terror: Page 22

WHAT THE PAPERS SAY

The Daily Mail: Of course we should be uneasy at giving up rights that protect
freedom. But there is no more basic a human right than the right to life. And at
the moment that is threatened by evil men.

The Telegraph: Consider, for example, the proposed law on inciting racial hatred
- which, if literally interpreted, would prohibit the publication of the Bible
and the Koran, both of which are disparaging about other faiths.

Such a ban would seem more in place in Afghanistan than here.

Plenty could be done to make this country safer: more resources for the police,
better witness protection, the admission of telephone intercepts as forensic
evidence in terrorist trials and a willingness to issue and enforce deportation
orders.

The Guardian: The UK already has the most draconian laws in Europe for deterring
and monitoring suspected terrorists.

No other European state is seeking the extra powers that Home Secretary David
Blunkett has been outlining.

It is up to Parliament to ensure that the freedom for which the current "war on
terrorism" is being waged does not end up destroying the fundamental rights of
citizens at home.

The Independent: Mr Blunkett's plan is a dangerous step.

Parliament must force him to think again before we sleepwalk down this American
road towards a police state.

The Mirror: It is ironic that this legislation is being introduced in Parliament
the day after we remember all those hundreds and thousands of British citizens
who died fighting for freedom.

And now we have a New Labour government - yes, a New Labour government -
attempting to remove some of the freedom we cherish so dearly.

The Financial Times: By packaging together several measures, Mr Blunkett limits
the scope for debate and amendment. Laws that limit individual freedoms or
punish the actions of British citizens abroad need careful consideration. Mr
Blunkett should take it step by step.


LOAD-DATE: November 13, 2001

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                   Copyright 2001 Associated Newspapers Ltd.

                              44 of 251 DOCUMENTS

                         The Evening Standard (London)

                               November 12, 2001

Blunkett gets tough on labs over 'terror' toxins;
Attack on Afghanistan

BYLINE: Jo Revill

SECTION: Pg. 4

LENGTH: 558 words



TOUGHER security measures for laboratories are to be imposed by the Government
to prevent terrorist groups from acquiring toxic or pathogenic material.

Home Secretary David Blunkett, who will publish sweeping antiterrorism proposals
tomorrow, wants to make it far harder for extremists to gain access to dangerous
chemicals which could be turned into biological weapons.

There is concern that the present law does not go far enough in controlling
access to toxins, materials such as anthrax, other bacteria or viruses which can
be stored or developed in a laboratory.

In the wake of the anthrax attacks in America, more attention is being focused
on bio-weapons. There are a range of organisms which occur naturally, such as
anthrax and tularemia, viruses such as smallpox, and toxins including the deadly
botulinum, one of the most poisonous substances known. Given the right
technology, these are capable of being processed into weapons-grade material.

In an interview published in Dawn, Pakistan's main English-language daily paper,
Osama bin Laden claimed he had access to both nuclear and chemical weapons and
would use them as a deterrent. He denied, however, that his organisation was in
any way involved with the anthrax attacks in America. Mr Blunkett's Bill will
"make provision about the control of pathogens and toxins" according to the
first details published today.

The Bill follows a decision by eight countries, including the UK and America, to
work together more closely to combat bioterrorism. It is, however, likely to be
the subject of a legal challenge from the civil rights organisation Liberty
which has condemned Mr Blunkett's plan to hold suspects without trial, subject
only to a review every six months.

Describing the plans as "a fundamental violation of the rule of law, of rights
and traditional values", Liberty's director, John Wadham, said the organisation
would seek to challenge that declaration at the Court of Human Rights in
Strasbourg.

Opponents, including Labour and Liberal Democrat MPs, were angered by Mr
Blunkett's declaration yesterday that he would not be deterred by "airy-fairy"
civil libertarians. Liberal Democrat leader Charles Kennedy said his party would
refuse to accept "serious erosion" of basic rights and freedoms.

Mr Blunkett, however, is determined to push through emergency legislation by
Christmas. Although the Government looks assured of broad Tory support and a
Commons majority, much will depend on the weight of opposition from Labour MPs.

Today's declaration is designed to allow the Government to opt out from the
European Convention on Human Rights, which bans detention without trial.

Article 15 of the Convention permits governments to ignore their normal
obligations "in time of war or other public emergencies".

Under the proposed new law, foreign nationals suspected of involvement in
terrorism could be detained or sent to a "safe" third country. They would be
held for six months after which their case would be reviewed by the Special
Immigration Appeals Commission with further reviews every six months.

In a separate move, the Government is today bringing forward new powers to
control bureaux de change amid warnings that they are being used to launder vast
sums of "dirty" money, including funding for terrorism.


LOAD-DATE: November 13, 2001

LANGUAGE: English

GRAPHIC: PROTEST: AN ANTIWAR VIGIL OUTSIDE DOWNING STREET AT THE WEEKEND

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                   Copyright 2001 Associated Newspapers Ltd.

                              45 of 251 DOCUMENTS

                         The Evening Standard (London)

                               November 12, 2001

NEW YORK JET CRASH;
'Hundreds dead' as plane hits homes: 'No information on terrorist attack' say
CIA chiefs: Airbus plunges on Queens district after JFK takeoff

BYLINE: James Langton;Patrick Mcgowan

SECTION: Pg. 1;2

LENGTH: 1202 words


HUNDREDS are feared dead after an airliner crashed and exploded in flames in New
York today - only two months after the attacks on the World Trade Center.

Although there were initial fears that terrorism could have again brought scenes
of disaster to American TV screens, early reports said the plane could have
suffered engine failure on takeoff. One of the plane's engines fell separately
from the main wreckage. The CIA said there was no evidence of terrorist
involvement.

One eyewitness said they saw an engine explode and the plane was on fire in the
seconds before it came down.

Another said the plane itself appeared to explode in mid-air.

The American Airlines flight destroyed four buildings as it came down in the
Queens district, one of the most populated parts of New York.

Today is Veterans' Day, a public holiday in the United States, and there are
fears that the death toll on the ground could be even higher as few people had
left for work.

In New York, the Dow Jones Industrial Average fell 96.6 points to 9511.40.

The Nasdaq index dropped 35 points to 1793.48.

The London stock market panicked as TV pictures of the crash flashed around
dealing rooms.

The FTSE-100 Index was down by 178.9 points at on stage but recovered by more
than 100 points.

Gold raced to a one-month high of $ 280 and ounce and the US dollar to a
one-month low of less than 119.75 yen in immediate reaction to the news.

In the minutes after the crash an F-15 Eagle jet fighter flew over the crash
scene as a thick pall of black smoke rose into the morning sky.

Flight 587, an Airbus A300, had just taken off from JFK en route to Santa
Domingo in the Dominican Republic when it crashed just five miles from the
airport having taken off half an hour late.

The exact number of casualties was not immediately known but the wide-bodied
plane had 246 people including nine crew on board.

It can carry up to 361 passengers.

The American airline industry is in a state of the highest alert since the 11
September attacks but the Federal Aviation Administration also said there was no
immediate suggestion that terrorism was to blame.

Fire and ambulance crews rushed to the scene, a residential area near to
Rockaway Beach in the borough of Queens. Witnesses reported hearing a loud noise
while the plane was still in the sky.

Beverly Browne, from Brooklyn, said she saw white smoke coming from the plane
before it crashed.

"The wings were going backwards and forwards like it was trying to balance
itself. There was white smoke coming out of it. It just couldn't seem to
stabilise itself. The next thing I knew it had crashed."

Susan Locke, who lives a few blocks away from the crash, said she saw it coming
"straight down" in the middle of a residential area.

"I didn't hear an explosion. I heard a rumble that shook my house. I looked out
and saw it go straight down.

"I didn't see any smoke. It wasn't coming down on its belly, but nose down.

It might not have been at 90 degrees but it was certainly head first."

Debbie Ciuffo saw a piece off the plane and then saw it spin out of control to
the ground.

"I saw something drop off it and then it just spun to the ground.," she said. "
I thought 'oh, my god, those poor people'. I pulled over to the side of the road
and emergency crews raced past."

The crash site is densely populated with lots of small homes.

There is also a Jewish school nearby, which was closed for Veterans' Day,
according to reports.

Another witness told CNN he was 40 blocks away and saw "just a lot of smoke.

Tons and tons of smoke. You can see emergency vehicles heading to area. Lots of
people are standing in the streets.

It's very tense."

An unnamed woman said she had seen a "fireball" as the plane hit a building
behind her home. "I saw this hit the house right behind my house," she said.

"It seemed so low that I was ducking, almost. Then there was this
enormous-fireball."

She added: "It is utter terror here, everybody's just in shock.

It's hard to believe, you don't think it's going to hit this close to home."

All three major airports in the New York area, JFK, La Guardia and Newark were
closed.

New York's Mayor, Rudolph Giuliani was on his way to the crash scene within
minutes.

"The first thing I thought was 'Oh my God' he said. "We have no reason to think
it any other than an accident at this stage. But our minds are aware of the
events of 11 September ."

He said the Rockaway district was particularly badly hit by the terrorist
attacks two months ago.

"I have been here 20 times for funerals and wakes for World Trade Center
workers, police and firefighters who lived here."

New Yorker's, who were just beginning to recover from the 11 September horrors,
were again watching scenes of disaster on morning TV. Three rescue helicopters
hovered over the crash scene.

A New York Fire Department spokesman said 44 units and 198 firefighters have
responded to the scene. Many came straight from a memorial service being held
for their colleagues killed in the September outrage.

New York's Office of Emergency Management said all bridges and tunnels in the
city were closed except to emergency vehicles.

The crash, just after 9am New York time, came two months after the attack on the
World Trade Center, which was destroyed by two Boeing 767s hijacked out of
Boston's Logan Airport. One of the planes was operated by American, the other by
United.

In Downing Street, Tony Blair said his thoughts were with the American people,
but it was too early to speculate on the cause of the crash.

"I don't think it would be sensible certainly for us on the basis of the
information we have to speculate any further," he said.

A spokesman for Heathrow said: "In the light of today's events in New York,
Heathrow is closely monitoring developments.

"There is likely to be serious disruption to transatlantic flights and all
passengers on routes to North America are advised to contact their airline
before setting out for the airport."

Witness Eddie Niedes said he saw an engine on the wing blow up seconds before
the plane plunged to the ground.

"It was flying fine with no problems. It seemed to be on a normal flightpath.

"Then the engine on the right side blew up and it went straight down into a
nosedive. There were flames on the right hand side.

"It was very fast. I don't think the pilot had any choice but to go straight
down."

He added: "It was very very frightening. I was watching the plane from my office
all the way along and it blew up right in front of my eyes."

A US official said intelligence agencies, the FBI and the Federal Aviation
Administration were reviewing all recent intelligence for any signs that
terrorism was involved, but an hour after the crash there was no evidence
pointing to an attack.

Mr Giuliani appealed for people to stay calm, saying President George Bush was
"on top of it".

Mr Giuliani added: "We asked for air cover. The airports have been closed for a
while, just for a precaution.

"We should really focus all of our efforts on trying to see if we can find
survivors."


LOAD-DATE: November 13, 2001

LANGUAGE: English

GRAPHIC: TV SHOWS FIREMEN RACING TO THE SCENE AS SMOKE BILLOWS INTO THE SKY FROM
THE SITE OF TODAY'S CRASH IN NEW YORK'S QUEENS DISTRICT; AN AMERICAN AIRLINES
AIRBUS LIKE THE ONE THAT CRASHED TODAY. FIREMEN SAY AN ENGINE MAY HAVE FALLEN
OFF THE JET BEFORE THE ENTIRE PLANE PLUNGED FROM THE SKY

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                   Copyright 2001 Associated Newspapers Ltd.

                              46 of 251 DOCUMENTS

                              The Herald (Glasgow)

                               November 12, 2001

Defiant bin Laden finally admits to terror attacks

BYLINE: Aine Harrington

SECTION: Pg. 6

LENGTH: 399 words


OSAMA bin Laden said he knew nothing about the anthrax attacks in the United
States and declared he would never allow himself to be captured, it was revealed
yesterday.

However, the Saudi-born militant for the first time has admitted his al-Qaeda
group carried out the September 11 attacks.

The revelations were made yesterday in two newspapers - one British, the other
Pakistani.

Bin Laden granted an interview to Hamid Mir, the editor of the Urdu-language
Ausaf at a secret location.

Mr Mir said he was blindfolded and bundled into a jeep in Kabul and driven five
hours to a cold mud hut, where he spoke to bin Laden for two hours.

Bin Laden said he was prepared to fight to the death with the Taliban, and its
leader Mullah Mohammed Omar.

He said: "I can be eliminated but not my mission. We'll fight along with Mullah
Omar until the last drop of our blood."

When the journalist asked if bin Laden was responsible for the anthrax-tainted
letters which were sent to US media and government offices, he laughed and said:
"We don't know anything about anthrax."

However, in a separate interview, bin Laden did claim that he had nuclear and
chemical weapons and might use them in response to US attacks on Afghanistan.

Bin Laden had declined to say where he obtained the weapons, but had told Mr
Mir, who has written a biography of bin Laden, that he suspected the US was
using chemical weapons in Afghanistan because "bodies of mujahideen found from a
site in Kabul had all turned black".

American officials have rejected bin Laden's claims.

In a separate disclosure, the Sunday Telegraph said yesterday it had obtained
previously undisclosed video footage which had been circulating among bin
Laden's supporters for 14 days.

Bin Laden, is reported as saying: "The Twin Towers were legitimate targets, they
were supporting US economic power.

"If avenging the killing of our people is terrorism, then history should be
witness that we are terrorists. Yes, we kill innocents and this is legal
religiously and logically."

In Pakistan, investigators said yesterday that two retired nuclear scientists,
recently arrested and questioned, have acknowledged that they met bin Laden at
least twice this year. Bashir-ud-Din Mehmood and Abdul Majid left their senior
positions about two years ago and established a relief organisation in
Afghanistan.

LOAD-DATE: November 12, 2001

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                Copyright 2001 Scottish Media Newspapers Limited

                              47 of 251 DOCUMENTS

                                 Bath Chronicle

                               November 13, 2001

Book a church pew early for Christmas;
 POPULAR SERVICE: terror attack ups Abbey numbers

BYLINE: Kate Tarling

SECTION: News, Pg.3

LENGTH: 360 words


GET me to the church on time or there may not be a seat.

Church-goers could be refused entry at Bath Abbey this Christmas because the
services there are so popular.

Health and safety regulations mean the city centre church is limited to 1,153
worshippers at a time more than enough for most occasions.

But during the Christmas period, the limit can leave people out in the cold.

Alan Morley, the abbey's administrator, said the church had been particularly
busy since the terrorist attacks in America on September 11.

Most churches have reported similar increases in attendance and the abbey acted
as a focus for people's thoughts in the immediate aftermath of the attacks.

"Since the 11th of September there's been a feeling that the congregation has
gone up, " he said.

"When we did the three minute silence on the Friday after the attack we had
about 700 people there and people are still attending the Friday 1pm services.

"I think people have regained their spirituality and numbers have gone up
slightly." But he said the Christmas services, particularly the Advent Carol
Service, the Christmas Eve Midnight Communion and the Festival of Nine Lessons
and Carols, were always popular.

"From my own personal experience when I worked in Kent, certainly the midnight
service there you could expect a very good turnout and when I worked at Didcot
the turnouts were very, very good.

"But there is a general feeling that attendance at the Abbey has gone up which
is very good and we're delighted." He said the downside was that people needed
to arrive to the services early in order to be sure of a seat.

Health and safety regulations introduced over the last few years mean the Abbey
is forbidden from placing loose chairs in aisles or allowing people to stand.

Only the first 1,153 people can legally be allowed entry to the church, and
additional people will be refused entry.

Mr Morley said they were sorry to have to turn people away.

"We would love to have as many people in the abbey as possible, " he said.

"But if people are coming to these Christmas services they've got to get there
early."

LOAD-DATE: November 15, 2001

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                      Copyright 2001 Bristol United Press

                              48 of 251 DOCUMENTS

                               Belfast Telegraph

                               November 13, 2001

Woman survives terror attack to die in air crash

LENGTH: 340 words


HILDA Yolanda Mayor escaped from the World Trade Centre after the terrorist
attack only to die on board the jet that tore into New York yesterday.

"She was my treasure," her mother, Virginia Hernandez, said from the family's
Dominican Republic home, where relatives wailed their grief.

The attack on the World Trade Centre - where Mayor had worked in a first-floor
restaurant - left 41 Dominicans among the dead and missing.

But the anguish of victims' cries echoing through Santo Domingo's Las Americas
International Airport indicated the crash of American Airlines Flight 587 had
taken a toll even closer to home.

"Today is worse than the 11th," said Leonidas Araujo Quesada, the manager of an
airport cafe. "On the 11th, there were people crying, but it was for everybody.
Today it is for Dominicans."

About half a million Dominicans live in New York, one of its largest immigrant
groups, according to consular officials.

Ms Mayor, like many others, had built a life firmly rooted in two worlds: a US
citizen who worked in Manhattan, she also stayed in touch with relatives in her
Caribbean birthplace near San Pedro de Macoris.

The 26-year-old had planned to holiday with her mother and her two children, who
had arrived in the Dominican Republic from New York two weeks earlier.

"We were going to make a meal. We were going to have all the family together,"
Mrs Hernandez said.

It was one of many plans that evaporated as lives were cut short yesterday.

"Not the child, please not the child!" sobbed Germania Brito, who was at the
airport to meet her sister Mariana Flores and husband John with their two-year
-old son, Isaias.

President Hipolito Mejia declared three days of national mourning.

Dozens of relatives went to Santo Domingo's airport for the official passenger
list. As the victims became known, shrieks echoed as men collapsed in tears and
women sobbed uncontrollably. Psychologists were on hand for counselling.

Relatives of some victims were ushered behind a barrier.


LOAD-DATE: November 13, 2001

LANGUAGE: English

TYPE: Paper

                Copyright 2001 Belfast Telegraph Newspapers Ltd.

                              49 of 251 DOCUMENTS

                               Belfast Telegraph

                               November 13, 2001

Guilt over our relief it wasn't terror attack

BYLINE: By Nick Agate:newsdesk@belfasttelegraph.co.uk

LENGTH: 385 words


NEVER has a city been so numbed.

I really didn't want to write about the attacks any more.

I, like most other people here, am sick of talking about them. From reading the
Sunday papers last weekend you would have thought there was nothing more to New
York than those two ill-fated towers.

Along with the rest of this city, I've been feeling all tragedied out.

Watching the news yesterday, though, made me realise that it's not tragedy that
New Yorkers are failing to process, but sentiment itself.

So when the American Airlines plane crashed yesterday we, of course, suspected a
terrorist attack. It was impossible not to.

The city, the country even, from sea to shining sea, had been on edge for a good
week.

Credible threats involving everything from chemical warfare to the bombing of
bridges had left the nation somewhat ill at ease, and the double significance of
Armistice Day was pretty hard to miss. So, when the 11th passed without
incident, we breathed a collective sigh of relief.

But then came the two-month anniversary remake, with plane, passengers and a
full tank of fuel, just one day too late. Once again, the TV networks could film
nothing but smoke (the FBI won't let news helicopters fly); once again
newscasters portended hyperbolic doom, once again Giuliani held centre stage and
told people to quit mopin' and get back to the theatre, or whatever it is that
normal folk tend to do with their Monday.

The ghastly thing, though, was that we did.

After we realised that this incident was but an accident, the collective sigh of
relief was repeated and released, people simply got on with their lives.

Thinking back on my reaction, and that of those around me, I am horrified. Since
when was it legitimate to show relief at the death of 280 people?

The problem is, when you're faced with tragedy upon tragedy, it becomes a lot
harder to cry. You have to block off some part of your emotional valve system or
the whole thing malfunctions and little bits of the world fall off.

I thought of home. Another kneecapping, another shooting, another pipe bombing
in a Belfast estate. The ingredients of our six o'clock news were the stuff of
nightmares elsewhere.

And now, in New York, a calamity is dissolving into a shadow of serious news.


LOAD-DATE: November 13, 2001

LANGUAGE: English

TYPE: Paper

                Copyright 2001 Belfast Telegraph Newspapers Ltd.

                              50 of 251 DOCUMENTS

                     Belfast News Letter (Northern Ireland)

                           November 13, 2001, Tuesday

WAR ON TERRORISM: ROYAL PLEA FREES ATTACKER

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 17

LENGTH: 107 words


THE 16-year-old Latvian anti-war protestor who slapped the Prince of Wales with
a flower last week has been released from custody pending trial on charges she
threatened the life of a foreign dignitary.

Police spokesman Didzis Smitins said the decision to release the student was
influenced by reports that Prince Charles had called for leniency for Lebedeva,
a supporter of a fringe, pro-communist group called the National Bolsheviks.

Alina Lebedeva, who was released on Sunday from the Central Police Station in
Riga after spending three days in custody, faces a maximum sentence of 15 years
in jail if convicted, said Smitins.

LOAD-DATE: November 13, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

                   Copyright 2001 Century Newspapers Limited

                              51 of 251 DOCUMENTS

                                Birmingham Post

                           November 13, 2001, Tuesday

WAR ON TERROR: SADDAM IS 'INVOLVED IN US ATTACKS'

SECTION: Pg. 7

LENGTH: 281 words


Iraq's opposition in exile said Saddam Hussein was 'intimately involved' in the
September 11 attacks and still holds at least 80 prisoners from Iraq's
occupation of Kuwait.

Citing testimony from four Iraqi defectors who had worked at a special forces
camp at Salman Pak, south of Baghdad, the Iraqi National Congress (INC) said
Saddam's government had trained Muslim militants from across the Middle East to
attack US targets.

The US says it has no evidence of a direct link between Saddam and the September
suicide attacks. Iraq has denied any link with the attacks or with Osama bin
Laden.

Analysts have also cast doubt on reports that Salman Pak was used as a terror
training ground, saying it was set up by Iraq in the 1970s as an anti-terrorism
training camp.

But Sherif Ali bin Hussein, a member of the former Iraqi royal family and of the
INC leadership, said: 'We have been gathering evidence that Saddam is at least
intimately involved, if not the instigator, of these attacks.'

He said Iraq had trained militants at Salman Pak since 1995 to hijack planes
without using guns or bombs - the method used by hijackers on September 11.

One of the INC's four defectors, Colonel Sabah Khalifa Khodada al Lami, said
specialists from Iraq's intelligence services taught hijacking, assassination
and sabotage on a course set up by Saddam's eldest son, Uday.

Trainers at the Salman Pak complex, 15 miles south of Baghdad, used the fuselage
of a Boeing 707, a bus and a mock-up urban setting to teach techniques to groups
of five or six militants, he said.

The trainers were themselves supervised by one man, known only as Shabah, or
phantom, Lami added.

LOAD-DATE: November 13, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

               Copyright 2001 Midland Independent Newspapers plc

                              52 of 251 DOCUMENTS

                                THE BRISTOL POST

                               November 13, 2001

Psychic insight of terror attack

SECTION: News, Pg.15

LENGTH: 178 words


A THIRD of people in Bristol believe they are psychic following the terrorist
atrocity in America, according to the Fortean Times .

The journal, which investigates strange phenomena, regularly receives e-mails,
letters and calls about premonitions.

Since September 11, it has seen a massive 200 per cent increase in
correspondence.

More than half the women questioned in Bristol said they had had a premonition
compared to 45 per cent of men.

Bob Rickard, editor of the Fortean Times , said: "It's clear that the attacks on
the World Trade Centre on September 11 have had a significant impact on our
psyche, making us aware of dreams and premonitions we've had that only make
sense now after the attacks." An eight-year-old boy saw the news unfolding on TV
and said to his mother: "Oh no, not again. I watched this film last night with
grandad.

Another plane hits the other building and they both fall down." His mother found
out he hadn't watched TV with his grandad and must have dreamed of the planes
crashing into the World Trade Centre.

LOAD-DATE: November 14, 2001

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                      Copyright 2001 Bristol United Press

                              53 of 251 DOCUMENTS

                                  Daily Record

                           November 13, 2001, Tuesday

TERRORISTS PARADE TO MARK SUICIDE ATTACK

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 179 words


MORE than a thousand recruits for the terror movement Hizbollah have gathered in
Beirut to mark the group's first suicide attack on Israel in 1982.

The guerillas listened as their leader, Sheikh Hassan Nasrallah, called for Arab
states to resist US pressure to freeze the group's assets.

In the West Bank meanwhile, a member of another hardline Palestinian group,
Hamas, was shot dead by Israeli troops yesterday.

Muhammed Reihan, a suspect in the killing of two Jewish settlers in 1998, was
killed when soldiers, supported by tanks, entered the village of Tel, close to
where an Israeli officer was shot dead in an ambush last week.

Reihan's neighbours said he was shot as he tried to flee but other witnesses
said the Palestinian had opened fire first.

The incidents came as US Secretary of State Colin Powell met in New York with
Israeli Foreign Minister Shimon Peres, who is working on a new peace initiative
that reportedly calls for the establishment of a Palestinian state in the areas
already under Palestinian control as a first phase.

LOAD-DATE: November 13, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

            Copyright 2001 Scottish Daily Record & Sunday Mail Ltd.

                              54 of 251 DOCUMENTS

                         The Evening Standard (London)

                               November 13, 2001

Attack on Afghanistan: New UK terror laws 'essential'

BYLINE: David Taylor

SECTION: Pg. 4

LENGTH: 339 words


DAVID BLUNKETT will today try to calm growing fears about government
antiterrorism plans, insisting that the package of measures will be
"proportionate and targeted", writes David Taylor.

Civil liberties groups have vowed to fight plans for detention without trial of
terrorist suspects and Tory shadow home secretary Oliver Letwin has warned that
the move would be "inviting reprisals" against Britain.

But publishing the Anti-Terrorism, Crime and Security Bill this morning, Mr
Blunkett will say the State must have the power to lock up terror suspects who
try to use Britain as a safe haven.

Sources say the Bill will not go into detail about the quality of evidence
required before suspected terrorists can be detained indefinitely without
charge. But it is likely that decisions will be taken by the Home Secretary
acting on information from the security services and police antiterrorist
officers.

Cases would then pass to the Special Immigration Appeals Commission where a High
Court judge will decide whether the suspect can be detained.

The new power would be used in cases where the suspect could not be deported,
either because Britain does not have an extradition agreement with their
country, or where they would face torture or death if they were returned.

A battery of other measures in the Bill include:

New powers forcing airlines to give police advance information of passenger
lists;

Wider powers for the police at potential targets such as nuclear power stations
and airports;

Tighter security at biological labs to combat fears about materials such as
anthrax falling into terrorist hands; Increasing the maximum penalty for the new
combined offence of incitement to religious and racial hatred from two to seven
years.

The Government says the Bill will become law before Christmas but denies it has
been rushed through, rejecting comparisons with the 1991 Dangerous Dogs Act
which became law in the space of six weeks after only one day of debate in the
Commons.


LOAD-DATE: November 14, 2001

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                   Copyright 2001 Associated Newspapers Ltd.

                              55 of 251 DOCUMENTS

                                  The Express

                               November 13, 2001

AMERICA'S TERROR: FBI IS NOT RULING OUT ATTACK AFTER CLAIMS OF EXPLOSION BEFORE
PLANE PLUNGED TOWARDS HOLIDAY FAMILIES; SCARE OVER 'BLAST' IN MID-AIR

BYLINE: BY DAVID SMITH IN NEW YORK AND JOHN TWOMEY IN LONDON

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 2 3

LENGTH: 911 words


IT IS a tragedy almost beyond belief - another packed jetliner crashes in New
York striking new terror into the heart of the wounded city.

Two months and one day after the carnage of September 11, more than 255 people
were killed as a American Airlines Airbus A300-600 nose-dived into the
residential borough of Queens and erupted in an inferno.

Dozens of people are feared to have been killed in the carnage on the ground.

Once again, a monstrous pall of smoke hung over New York.

Last night, FBI agents and air investigators were trying to discover why AA
Flight 587 crashed amid reports that there was a mid-air explosion.

The black box flight recorder on the jet, whose take-off was delayed for more
than an hour due to technical reasons, was recovered from the wreckage.

White House officials said there was no immediate evidence of a terrorist
attack, but federal agents were not ruling it out.

USAF jets were scrambled and the city's three airports as well as many bridges
and tunnels were closed as emergency anti-terrorist plans were put into action.

Eye-witnesses told how a catastrophic explosion ripped through the right engine
of Flight 587 shortly after the fully-fuelled aircraft took off from New York's
JFK Airport.

The wings appeared to move "backwards and forwards" as if the giant plane was
trying to stabilise itself.

Then it plunged earthwards and crashed into the homes of families enjoying the
public holiday of Veterans' Day.

Moments before impact, the stricken engine broke off and careered to the ground.

Wreckage was strewn over a wide area. An engine was found intact in a parking
lot at a petrol station, missing the fuel tanks by no more than six feet. Part
of a wing appeared to be in Jamaica Bay, just offshore.

The crash, happened at 2.15pm British time (9.15am local time), shortly after
Flight 587 took off from JFK on its way to the Dominican Republic.

A total of 246 passengers and nine crew on the Airbus are thought to have
perished in the disaster. Up to 12 homes were said to have erupted into flames,
leaving many dead.

Onlookers described how several homes had been completely obliterated. In a
cruel twist, Rockaway is home to scores of police, fire and emergency workers
who became the heroes of the September 11 attacks.

Two hundred fire-fighters due to go to a memorial service for their dead
colleagues were among the first on the scene of the new carnage.

They were quickly joined by New York's Mayor Rudolph Giuliani, who two months
ago was at the devastating wreckage of the World Trade Center.

In a typically defiant statement, he said: "We have been tested one more time.
We will pass this test as well."

White House spokesman Ari Fleischer said it was too early to rule out terrorism.
But he stressed the US Government had received no "credible" threats prior to
the crash.

President George W Bush spoke to Mr Giuliani by telephone to express his
heart-felt sympathy. Mr Bush was said to have "deep concern and sympathy" for
the families of those in the crash and for the people of New York.

Mr Blair, in Downing Street for talks with the Indian premier Atal Bihari
Vajpayee about the international emergency brought on by September 11, was
stunned by the news of the crash.

He said: "Our thoughts and prayers are with the families of the victims and with
the American people at this time."

Foreign Secretary Jack Straw, in New York for a UN General Assembly yesterday,
said: "Like everyone in New York, I was profoundly shocked.

"Our hearts must also go out to all New Yorkers for whom - whatever the cause -
this further disaster will have reopened the wounds of September 11."

The crash caused chaos in Britain and around the world, with flights to New York
being cancelled in the immediate aftermath of the disaster.

The disaster was also another savage blow to the global airline industry which
has shed hundreds of thousands of jobs and caused confidence in flying as a mode
of transport to plummet. Shares also slumped in the minutes after the crash.

Rockaway - which has lost at least 80 people in the September disaster - was
said to be in a state of "disbelief" last night as survivors struggled to come
to terms with the latest tragedy.

It is a densely-populated district of multi-family homes, each three or four
storeys high. Just around the corner from the crash site stands a Roman Catholic
Church where many of the funerals of the September 11 victims were held. Schools
in the area were closed for the public holiday.

Peninsula Hospital Center in Rockaway said 15 people were currently being
treated for injuries from the crash, but officials said the figure would rise as
more badly wounded survivors were found.

Donald Carty, chairman of American Airlines, said he had "absolutely no
indications" about what caused the crash.

But as the rescue work was still going on, there was a number of theories about
how mechanical failure could have caused the tragedy.

One was that the pilot knew there was a problem with one of his engines during
take-off, but had reached such a high speed he had to continue flying.

Investigators will focus on the maintenance record of the General Electric
engine, how many hours it has flown and when it was last given a major overhaul.

Even a "bird-strike" - a flock of birds hitting the engine - will be considered
as a possible cause, said experts.

LOAD-DATE: November 13, 2001

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Newspaper

                       Copyright 2001 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS

                              56 of 251 DOCUMENTS

                             The Guardian (London)

                               November 13, 2001

Traders regain their nerve: New York air disaster: Markets recover as fear of
new terror attack recedes

BYLINE: Larry Elliott and Jill Treanor in New York

SECTION: Guardian City Pages, Pg. 21

LENGTH: 608 words


Markets took a rollercoaster ride in London and New York yesterday as nervous
traders sought to shrug off the news of an American Airlines jet crashing
shortly after take-off from John F Kennedy airport.

Initial fears that the incident marked the a fresh terrorist onslaught on the
American mainland two months after the attacks on the World Trade Centre and the
Pentagon saw stocks heavily marked down in early trading.

The markets were later reasssured when it was reported that the crash was
probably caused by a mechanical failure rather than resulting from a terrorist
hijacking in response to the US-led international military action against
Afghanistan.

In London, where the market closed before the full facts of the latest air
disaster were known, the FTSE 100 closed 98 points lower at 5146.2, having at
one stage been as low as 5063.

The Dow Jones, which at its weakest was 200 points off and 165 points down when
trading ended in London, later clawed back most of its losses and finished the
day just 53 lower at 9,554.

As dealers were confronted with scenes reminiscent of the September 11 attacks -
billowing smoke on television screens and Manhattan's tunnels and bridges sealed
- there was a search for safe havens which led to a Dollars 2 (pounds 1.37) rise
in the price of gold and prompted demand for British gilts.

The US bond market was closed as the November 11 Veteran's Day holiday was
marked a day late, leaving the share markets to suffer an immediate slump after
news of the crash, before dealers regained their nerve.

"There is a particular reason (for the rebound). It's because it's appearing
more and more unlikely that it was a terrorist act," said Uri Landesman, chief
investment officer with AFA Management Partners. Initially, the news of the
crash affected investors "very negatively because they feared it was another
terrorist attack".

However, some analysts said the markets were taking the incident too lightly.
Dick McCabe, the chief market strategist at Merrill Lynch, said: "Any little bit
of disturbing news can be used as a catalyst for a selloff."

Mr McCabe had already started to believe that last week's rally was likely to
run out of steam. The plane crash helped to weaken sentiment. "It all conjures
up the worse," he said.

Shares in airlines, already battered by the aftershock of the events of
September 11, were among the worst hit.

The ratings agency, Standard & Poor's, said the outlook for the industry was not
encouraging.

"Evidence of terrorism would obviously substantially worsen and prolong the loss
of passenger bookings. Investigations into the causes of such events normally
take a lengthy period of time, sometimes years and and an extended period of
uncertainly regarding the cause would also depress passenger traffic," the
ratings agency said.

S&P already had American Airlines and its parent company AMR Corporation on
credit watch. Shares in AMR sank Dollars 2.28 to Dollars 15.85.

Hotels and companies linked to the tourist industry were also hit by renewed
concerns that the news will deter people from travelling.

In Europe the German Dax was down 5% at its worst before mounting a slight
recovery, while in Paris the CAC 40 index closed down more than 3%.

Market optimism in recent weeks has been fostered by cuts in interest rates,
particularly by the US Federal Reserve. However, Adolf Rosenstock at Nomura
International gave warning last night: "There has been a lot of hope pinned on a
V-shaped recovery next year but when people see such accidents this outlook will
be subdued if not abandoned altogether."


LOAD-DATE: November 13, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 2001 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              57 of 251 DOCUMENTS

                             The Guardian (London)

                               November 13, 2001

Attack on Afghanistan: Terror bill: Suspects already in UK face detention:
Blunkett seeks retrospective measures

BYLINE: Alan Travis Home affairs editor

SECTION: Guardian Home Pages, Pg. 10

LENGTH: 683 words


The emergency anti-terrorist legislation to be published today is expected to be
made retrospective, so action can be taken to detain indefinitely suspected
terrorists already living in Britain.

But the home secretary, David Blunkett, has dropped plans to include in the bill
a much more widely drawn conspiracy law that would have made it a criminal
offence to train, engage in communication networks with, or provide goods and
services to, known terrorists.

The measure would have enabled the police to charge, for example, a flying
school instructor who trained a suicide bomber as a pilot.

The anti-terrorist legislation will prove the sternest test since September 11
of the Westminster political consensus, with the shadow home secretary, Oliver
Letwin, offering his party's reluctant support while warning that the new form
of internment would make Britain an even bigger target for terrorist attacks.

At the same time the Liberal Democrat leader, Charles Kennedy, warned that his
party's support was not "a blank cheque for any draconian constraint on civil
liberties" and hinted that the legislation would face a rough ride in the House
of Lords if it came without "sunset clauses" which would ensure it lapsed if MPs
did not make the effort of renewing it every year.

The anti-terrorism, crime and security bill being published today will include
details of the new offence of incitement to religious hatred, and a battery of
measures such as official monitoring of internet and email traffic and tough
financial controls to staunch the flow of terrorist funding.

It is expected to include retrospective clauses so that action can be taken
against suspected terrorists already in Britain whose unresolved applications
for asylum have enabled them to remain, and not just against those picked up at
airports on arrival.

The Egyptian government in particular has made allegations about several
individuals alleged to have been involved in the Luxor tourist massacre and the
assassination of a former Egyptian prime minister who fall into this category.

The misgivings of some opposition and Labour politicians over particular
clauses, especially the indefinite detention of suspected foreign terrorists who
cannot be deported back home or to safe third countries, will spark considerable
debate.

The legislation is expected to reach the statute book before Christmas. It will,
however, take a little longer than the five days in which the 1970s Prevention
of Terrorism Act went through parliament.

That was only a five clause bill, while Mr Blunkett's emergency package is
believed to run to more than 80 clauses. It will still need only six full
sitting days in the Commons and Lords to reach the statute book.

Mr Blunkett yesterday laid before parliament and the European court of human
rights in Strasbourg a "designated derogation order", which is an official
declaration that the events of September 11 and Britain's involvement in the war
in Afghanistan mean that there is a "threat to the life of the nation" which
justifies such emergency measures.

The derogation order began the process of suspending the operation of article
five of the European convention on human rights, which prevents the indefinite
detention of suspected terrorists. MPs will be asked to vote next week to
confirm the decision.

For the Tories, Mr Letwin made clear he believed the package was "a poor
substitute" for even stricter measures which would see suspected terrorists
prevented from entering Britain in the first place and for their swift
deportation if they did manage to enter the country.

"There are real dangers in imprisoning terrorist suspects in the UK
indefinitely. We would be inviting reprisals in which British subjects could be
taken hostage and attempts made to trade their freedom for the release of
suspects. We would be far better off, and far safer, if the home secretary had
the power to deport people who pose a danger to our national security."

More on Britain's political response at guardian.co.uk/politics/attacks


LOAD-DATE: November 13, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 2001 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              58 of 251 DOCUMENTS

                          THE JOURNAL (Newcastle, UK)

                      November 13, 2001, Tuesday Edition 1

A result of another terrorist attack or as seemed likely last night was just a
terrible accident.

BYLINE: By The Journal

SECTION: UK AND WORLD NEWS, Pg. 2

LENGTH: 769 words







Us administration officials said the FBI believed an explosion occurred aboard
the American Airlines jet, and witnesses reported hearing one.

But investigators suggested the noise was caused by a catastrophic mechanical
failure, and a senior administration official said: "It's looking like it's not
a terrorist attack."

Still, the city on edge after the September 11 attack in which hijacked
jetliners brought down the World Trade Centre was put on high alert in the
minutes and hours after the crash.

In Rockaway, people used garden hoses to try to contain the flames. Others
grabbed their children and fled their homes in terror.

"People were screaming and running," said Janet Barasso, who wept as she
recounted fleeing from her home a block from the crash site with her two sons,
aged 10 and 16.

"I thought we were being bombed, because I didn't see the plane."

Last night, American President George Bush expressed his "heartfelt sympathy"
for the victims of the crash.

Standing alongside former South African President Nelson Mandela following a
meeting at the White House, he said: "It was heartbreaking to pick up the phone
and speak to my friend Mayor Rudolph Guiliani and once again express my
sympathies.

"At the same time I assured the people of New York the Federal Government will
respond as quickly as possible."

He said the investigation would ensure that the facts were "fully known" to the
American people.

"The New York people have suffered mightily, and they suffer again. But there is
no doubt in my mind that New Yorkers are resilient, strong and courageous people
and they will help their neighbours get over this."

Witnesses in Queens reported hearing an explosion and seeing an engine and other
debris falling off the flaming twin-engine jet as it came down.

An engine was found intact in a parking lot at a petrol station, missing the
petrol storage tanks by no more than six feet.

A plume of thick, black smoke could be seen miles away. Flames billowed high
above the treetops.

Fighter jets flew over the scene of crash. All metropolitan-area airports John F
Kennedy, LaGuardia and Newark, New Jersey were closed for hours, and
international flights were diverted to other cities.

Dozens of domestic flights were temporarily grounded or redirected across the
eastern half of the country. Major bridges and tunnels into New York were also
closed for hours.

The UN, where world leaders were attending an annual General Assembly debate,
closed its headquarters to pedestrians and vehicles, and the Empire State
Building was evacuated.

The plane went down at 2.17pm UK time in clear, sunny weather in the waterfront
area 15 miles from Manhattan. The densely populated section is home to many
firefighters who were among the dead and the rescuers at the World Trade Centre.
Four houses were destroyed, four were seriously damaged, and as many as a dozen
others sustained lesser damage.

"I don't believe there are any survivors at this point," New York Mayor Rudolph
Giuliani said.

Part of a tailfin was last night lifted out of nearby Jamaica Bay.

In Washington, White House spokesman Ari Fleischer said there were no "unusual
communications" from the cockpit. And a senior administration official said that
no threats against aeroplanes had been received.

The National Transportation Safety Board [NTSB] was designated the lead agency
in the investigation, signalling that authorities have no information other than
that a mechanical malfunction and not a terrorist attack brought down the plane.

A law enforcement source at the scene said that the likelihood of a mechanical
problem stemmed from the fact that flames were seen shooting out of the left
engine and that witnesses reported the plane had difficulty climbing and was
banking to the left.

The plane's engines were made by General Electric Co.

The NTSB said investigators recovered the Airbus flight data recorder, one of
the jetliner's two black boxes

The middle-class neighbourhood comprised largely of Irish, Italians and Jews was
already struggling to recover from the World Trade Centre disaster.

Neighbours said as many as 90 residents were killed in the trade centre, most of
them firefighters and employees at the Cantor Fitzgerald financial firm.

Emergency medical centres were set up at a high school and an elementary school,
both of which were closed for a public holiday.

A priest blessed about 20 bodies that were being laid out on the street. Last
night, 161 bodies had been recovered from the plane.

LOAD-DATE: November 29, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                Copyright 2001 Newcastle Chronicle & Journal Ltd

                              59 of 251 DOCUMENTS

                                  Western Mail

                           November 13, 2001, Tuesday

LITHO SHEDS 60 PRINT JOBS AFTER DOWNTURN;
 ADVERTISING: BAROMETER OF INDUSTRY CONFIDENCE SHOWS IMPACT OF TERRORIST ATTACKS

SECTION: BUSINESS; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 329 words


PRINTING firm Litho Supplies has cut 60 jobs, as it warned that its fullyear
results would fall short of expectations.

The group, which has its main offices in Derby and Bristol, said economic
difficulties had continued to affect profitability, and it was "clear that
market expectations of profits for the year would not now be achieved".

Litho said that following a traditionally slow August, when demand falls as
people head off on holiday, the upturn seen at the beginning of September was
"knocked back completely following the events of September 11". The downturn
continued into October, traditionally one of its stronger trading months.

Gerry Mulvaney, joint managing director at Litho, which employed 400 staff
before the cuts, said of the 60 staff affected, around 40 went from the firm's
core distribution business in supply sites around the UK.

The balance was at its ink manufacturing site in Herne Bay in Kent and at a
corporate sales division in Weston-super-Mare.

He added, "The printing industry is a very good barometer of the manufacturing
industry generally - we tend to see signs of recession before other people and
we also see the green shoots as confidence return before other people.

"We have been aware for the last 12 to 18 months of the industry being in
recession." When things were picking up customers started advertising, but in a
recession, the first cutback was adverts.

Mr Mulvaney said he had not seen any signs of green shoots "or even seeds" of
revival yet.

However, he was "very hopeful for the future of the industry" and said Litho
would be helped by management taking "fairly decisive action early on". The job
cuts are costing the firm pounds 200,000 but will save it pounds 1.25m on a
yearly basis. Litho continues to look for other cost savings.

Shares slumped 21pc to 24p. For the last financial year, to December 31 2000,
Litho reported profits of pounds 3.4m on sales of pounds 76.8m.

LOAD-DATE: November 13, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                    Copyright 2001 Western Mail and Echo Ltd

                              60 of 251 DOCUMENTS

                                Birmingham Post

                          November 14, 2001, Wednesday

BUSINESS TRAVEL: PREMIUM FARES GO UP DESPITE AIRLINE GLOOM;
 LISA PIDDINGTON LOOKS HOW SEPTEMBER'S NEW YORK TERRORIST ATTACKS HAVE HAD A
MAJOR IMPACT ON THE COST OF THE UPPER END OF AIR TRAVEL

BYLINE: Lisa Piddington

SECTION: Pg. 21

LENGTH: 1051 words


The aftermath of the September 11 terrorist attacks may have seen the launch of
'headline-grabbing' promotional fares, but first and business class ticket
prices have risen in the last two months.

This reverses the trend in the first half of the year, when premium fares
started their slide in the face of a global economic slowdown.

Business and restricted business class fares from western Europe to North
America rose between 2.3 per cent and 3.5 per cent, while first and restricted
first class fares rose at a higher rate of between 3.2 per cent and 5.4 per cent
since the end of Q3.

The UK recorded the strongest increase in this period.

UK first class fares to North America climbed 5.2 per cent, while business class
fares jumped six per cent, according to a special update on the American Express
European Corporate Travel Index, Q3 2001 released this month.

The update provides an analysis of the initial impact on airfares following in
the wake of the terrorist attacks in the US on September 11.

'In Q2 we started to see a rate slowdown as the economy weakened,' said Matthew
Davis, director of consulting services at American Express.

'The terrorist attacks of September 11 plunged the industry, already reeling
from the economic downturn, into an acute crisis.

'As demand for air travel has fallen, airlines have been forced to announce
sweeping cuts in capacity and the elimination of many services. The consequence
of which is quite sharp price hikes on certain key routes.'

Airlines are increasing fares or imposing a surcharge in response to added
security measures and insurance costs. The surcharges can be as much as pounds 5
on a standard ticket.

Looking to the future, Mr Davis added: 'We expect further rate gains as demand
starts to recover in early 2002. The added costs will be passed on to the
traveller.

'However, while economic conditions will remain tight next year, companies can
ill afford to sacrifice face-to-face business meetings in the longer term.
Instead, corporations will look to get more mileage for their travel money.

'Business travel remains vital for developing existing business and winning new
business - companies cannot afford, and do not want, to stop travelling.'

An American Express survey of mid-sized and large firms showed US companies were
committed to business travel with two thirds (65 per cent) not making changes to
company travel policy in response to September 11. Mr Davis, commenting on the
European playing field, said: 'Demand will pick up as corporations realise that
travel is an essential part of growing a business.

'Despite developing sophisticated yield management techniques to even out peaks
and troughs in demand, the airline sector is not entirely immune to market
forces.

'Although the fourth quarter will present some lean times, and we may see some
dramatic consolidation in the sector, the surviving airline companies will
bounce back as demand recovers.'

The report also reveals that traditional airlines, heavily exposed to the North
American routes, are suffering from the sharp dip in high-spending American
tourists and business travellers.

On the other hand, 'no frills' airlines flying the short-haul routes have been
less affected. These low cost airlines have been able to build on strong growth
pre-September 11, jockeying for greater market share.

Operating from a low cost base, 'no frills' airlines have been offering cut
-price fares that are attractive to the holidaymaker and the cost-conscious
business traveller.

Through aggressive marketing, these airlines now report a growing band of
increasingly loyal business travellers.

But Mr Davis explained: 'Although the 'no frills' networks are expanding
rapidly, with a number of new destinations on the flight plan, they typically
operate from secondary access locations, offering a point-to-point service.

'Until they fly from 'gateway' airports, they will have limited appeal for the
business community.

'That said, however, the low cost airlines are aggressively pursuing their
concentrated attack on business travel sector by vying for recently vacated
slots at key airports like Heathrow and Gatwick.'

In the weeks following September 11, traditional airlines reacted to the crisis
by intensifying their cost-cutting initiatives.

Airlines have cut capacity, withdrawn services and cut frequencies to meet
diminishing demand - North American capacity from Sweden, France, Germany and
the UK has fallen by 35 per cent, 22 per cent, 12 per cent and five per cent
respectively.

'We expect to see further capacity cuts as air travel remains soft. The reduced
capacity has had the effect of keeping prices buoyant - and, in some cases,
pushing up fares,' said Mr Davis.

The terrorist attacks combined with the weakening global economy, have pushed a
number of airlines to the brink. 'While it is still unclear how the industry
will respond exactly, we expect to see dramatic consolidation in the months
ahead.'

Quarter 3, with fresh impetus post-September 11, has seen a renewal of the open
skies talks. British Airways and American Airlines have relaunched negotiations
to deepen their relationship, the central piece in the UK-US open skies
discussions.

Both airlines say that key customer benefits will follow, including increased
coverage, lower fares, more attractive frequent flyer programmes and faster
check-in facilities. The partnership is being contested by other UK and US
airlines, with the decision pending.

'As the markets turn down, alliances will be strengthened as airlines look to
support one another through tighter knit partnerships,' said Mr Davis.

Alitalia has finally negotiated to join SkyTeam, with expectations to begin the
relationship through a codeshare with Air France this autumn.

Another key development to watch is how other airlines follow British Airways'
example of reducing or abandoning commission payments to travel agents.

In Europe, Lufthansa looks set to become the second major airline to follow,
however, the final date is yet to be confirmed. It is likely other airlines will
follow suit. In North America, American Airlines, United Airlines and Delta Air
Lines have cut commission caps by 60 per cent.

LOAD-DATE: November 14, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

               Copyright 2001 Midland Independent Newspapers plc

                              61 of 251 DOCUMENTS

                            The Independent (London)

                          November 14, 2001, Wednesday

NEW YORK AIR DISASTER: MAN ESCAPED TERRORIST ATTACK BUT DIED IN PLANE

BYLINE: David Usborne

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 630 words


FATE WAS kind to Felix Sanchez, an investment adviser who worked for Merrill
Lynch at the World Trade Centre until he left on 10 September to set up on his
own firm, advising baseball players from his native Dominican Republic on how to
manage their money. One day later, the twin towers came crashing down.

But on Monday, destiny visited Mr Sanchez, who was just 29, and he was not
spared a second time. On his way to his homeland to meet his new clients, he
chose American Airlines flight 587 and perished when the plane plummeted into
the Rockaway section of Queens minutes after take-off.

The story of Mr Sanchez is just one among myriad personal tragedies that emerged
yesterday from amid the greater tragedy of the crash of flight 587.

None was more hearbreaking, perhaps, than the confirmation that among the souls
on board were five infants. Small enough to board without their own assigned
seats, they were strapped to the laps of parents when the airliner went down.
The body of one baby was found in the arms of his father.

While investigators continued to see no link between the crash and the events of
11 September, ties between the two continued to surface. Hilda Yolanda Mayor,
26, has also escaped with her life that day. Employed at a branch beneath the
twin towers of Au Bon Pain, a chain of sandwich shops, she had managed to flee
to safety before they both collapsed. But on Monday, she also was on the doomed
Airbus.

Then there was the sad tale of Navy Petty Officer Ruben Rodgriguez, who took the
plane to meet his wife and children in the Dominican Republic.

The 32-year-old sailor had spent the weekend visiting family in New York after a
seven-month stint on the USS Enterprise, the first US aircraft carrier to report
for combat in the war on terrorism.

"My brother's three-year-old son keeps saying to his mother, 'When's Daddy
coming? Where's Daddy?' " Felipe Rodriguez, the sailor's brother, said at a
family centre for the grieving. "All we want is the body back so we can mourn
properly."

Friends of Mr Sanchez, meanwhile, shared a sense of disbelief that he had been
robbed of his life after cheating death nine weeks previously. "After the World
Trade Centre, he had a renewed outlook on life," said a friend, Sid Wilson. "And
the last time I saw him, he was so high on life. I can't believe this."

Leon Sanchez, an uncle, said: "He was really getting tight with all these big
-name ballplayers To him, this trip was going to be a victory."

Others, however, did cheat death on Monday, including Pamela Young, an American
Airlines flight attendant who usually works the JFK-Santo Domingo route. She was
off work to attend a course to become an estate agent, which she started after
deciding she had had enough of her career given the events of 11 September. "I
do that flight regularly," she said. "There's a good chance I would have been on
that flight".

In so many cases, families who were already separated by an ocean have now been
sundered for ever. For many Dominicans in New York, their time in the United
States was spent accumulating money for a better life for themselves and also
for those left behind in their homeland.

Rosa Peraz, 53, for example, had been working for 10 years as a domestic
employee in the city, earning enough to build her own apartment back home where
she kept her possessions carefully protected from the dust with plastic
sheeting. She was among those on board.

"You cannot imagine what a hard blow life has dealt me," a weeping Dileni Perez,
Ms Peraz's brother, told reporters in the Dominican Republic. "My God, you have
taken my mother, you have taken my sister." She had regularly sent money home
and paid for a nursing assistant to help her ailing mother.

LOAD-DATE: November 14, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 2001 Independent Print Ltd

                              62 of 251 DOCUMENTS

                     Belfast News Letter (Northern Ireland)

                          November 15, 2001, Thursday

TERROR ATTACK WIDOW LOSES FATHER IN PLANE CRASH

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 190 words


THE widow of a firefighter who died in the World Trade Center attack lost her
father in the American Airlines crash, it emerged yesterday.

Just two days after Naomi Gullickson attended a memorial service for her
husband, Joseph, she was forced to start planning for the funeral of her father,
Jose Perez, who died as the Airbus A300 slammed into New York on Monday.

"I can't believe the two men I love most in the world are gone," she told the
New York Daily News.

"Every day I spent wishing for Joe to come back from the rubble, I had my father
there for me.

"Now he's gone too."

The mother-of-two had been comforted by her father at the packed memorial
service for Mr Gullickson at Staten Island on Saturday.

Mr Gullickson, 37, had spent 13 years working for the New York Fire Department,
a job he was devoted to.

The couple had been together for eight years when he died trying to help people
trapped after hijacked planes smashed into the World Trade Center on September
11.

Mrs Gullickson said that, since the crash on Monday, her young daughter kept
asking: "Why is everybody dying?"

See Page 16

LOAD-DATE: November 15, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

                   Copyright 2001 Century Newspapers Limited

                              63 of 251 DOCUMENTS

                            Birmingham Evening Mail

                          November 15, 2001, Thursday

BLUNKETT WARNS OF TERROR ATTACK RISK WARNING: David

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 181 words


THE threat of terrorist attacks on Britain has been increased by its forthright
support for the United States in the weeks since the September 11 outrages, Home
Secretary David Blunkett said today.

The danger from terrorism was now greater than at any time during the IRA's
bombing campaigns, he said.

Irish Republicans had never threatened to use weapons of mass destruction, as
Osama bin Laden has done.

Mr Blunkett told the parliamentary Joint Committee on Human Rights that Britain
faced more of a threat than other European countries because of its history of
hosting dissidents from overseas.

"Our position internationally and our support for the US has increased that
danger," he warned.

Asked if he viewed the current danger as greater than that posed by the IRA, he
said: "Yes, because it is very clear and understood that the IRA were not using
chemical, biological, radiological or nuclear attack. They never threatened to
do so and did not possess such weapons. Never did they indicate that they were
engaged in an international terrorist action."

LOAD-DATE: November 16, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

               Copyright 2001 Midland Independent Newspapers plc

                              64 of 251 DOCUMENTS

                            Daily Post (North Wales)

                          November 15, 2001, Thursday

MAN HELD OVER TERROR ATTACKS

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 74 words


DETECTIVES have been questioning a man in connection with the September 11
terrorist attacks in the United States.

The 30-year-old man was arrested under the provisions of the Terrorism Act
following a request from the FBI, Scotland Yard said.

Officers from the Metropolitan Police's Anti-Terrorist Branch raided a house in
Tooting, southwest London.

The address was searched by officers but what was found was not announced.

LOAD-DATE: November 15, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

               Copyright 2001 The Liverpool Daily Post & Echo Ltd

                              65 of 251 DOCUMENTS

                         The Evening Standard (London)

                               November 15, 2001

YARD SEIZE 'IRA BOMBERS';
Ealing, BBC attack suspects held by anti terrorist squad

BYLINE: Justin Davenport

SECTION: Pg. 1

LENGTH: 226 words


SIX suspected members of a Real IRA active service unit were arrested today in
connection with the recent mainland bombing campaign.

Antiterrorist squad detectives swooped on addresses in north London and
Liverpool in a dawn raid. Five of the men were held in the capital.

The six are believed to be members of at least one Real IRA active service unit
operating on the mainland responsible for the series of attacks including the
recent Birmingham bomb and the explosions in Ealing and at the BBC at White
City.

All are aged between 20 and 40. All are from Ireland, some from the north and
others from the Republic.

They were being questioned at the high-security Paddington Green police station
today.

Scotland Yard said the arrests were the culmination of a joint operation between
the Anti-Terrorist Squad, Special Branch and the security services.

Ten days ago terrorists planted a car bomb in the centre of Birmingham which
failed to properly detonate giving forensic experts a potential vital
breakthrough. Police said if it had exploded fully it would have caused massive
loss of life.

The arrests came amid fears that dissident Republic terrorists would mount a
Christmas offensive in their efforts to destabilise the peace process.

There have been seven terrorist incidents in London in the past 16 months.


LOAD-DATE: November 16, 2001

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                   Copyright 2001 Associated Newspapers Ltd.

                              66 of 251 DOCUMENTS

                           Evening Herald (Plymouth)

                               November 15, 2001

Advice on mail safety
 TERROR: Attacks prompt leaflet drop

BYLINE: HERALD REPORTER

SECTION: NEWS: 999, Pg.34

LENGTH: 319 words


A NEW leaflet advising business people on steps they can take to protect their
workplace and their staff is being delivered throughout Devon and Cornwall in
response to the recent growing fears of anthrax attacks.

Produced by Devon and Cornwall Constabulary, the leaflet entitled 'SAFETY: It's
your business' has been devised following a recent rise in calls to the
emergency services from people receiving suspect packages and being unsure about
what they should do.

Acting Assistant Chief Constable Steve Pearce said: "As the leaflet emphasises,
although the risk of a terrorist attack in Devon and Cornwall is minimal, it
makes sense for everyone to be vigilant and to take proper precautions.

"It is important to reassure everyone here in the South West that there is no
need for alarm or concern, and that the current situation is kept in
perspective.

"However, it is sensible that people are vigilant.

Practical

"The leaflet sets out in a clear and simple way the practical safety and
security steps businesses can take, and what they should do if they come across
anything suspicious.

"I hope people will take a few minutes to read the leaflet, share its advice
with their staff so they, too, can play their part, and keep it safe for easy
reference."

The leaflet, created by the force in partnership with councils, health
authorities and the other emergency services, offers advice on sorting out the
mail, what to do if anything suspicious is found or if anyone has handled a
suspect package, and what steps to take to tighten security.

Twenty-five thousand copies of the leaflet have been printed ready for
distribution during the next few days.

Copies will be made available in police stations and in some libraries.

- Since the September 11 terror attacks there have been a number of 'scares' in
Plymouth with the post office discovering what it has believed to be suspect
packages.

LOAD-DATE: January 23, 2002

LANGUAGE: English

                         Copyright 2001 Evening Herald

                              67 of 251 DOCUMENTS

                             The Guardian (London)

                               November 15, 2001

The fall of Kabul: World Service will not call US attacks terrorism

BYLINE: Matt Wells

SECTION: Guardian Home Pages, Pg. 9

LENGTH: 470 words


The BBC World Service has taken a policy decision not to describe the attacks on
the US as "terrorism".

Mark Damazer, the BBC's deputy director of news, said the service would lose its
reputation for impartiality around the world if it were seen to use such a
subjective term.

While guests and contributors to World Service programmes may describe the
deliberate flying of jet planes into the World Trade Centre as acts of terror,
news correspondents use more neutral terms such as "attack".

Mr Damazer, speaking in a debate about television coverage of September 11 at
the Newsworld conference in Barcelona, insisted the decision was not intended to
downgrade the horror of the event. But if the word terrorism was used there
would be implications for the description of more subjective acts of terror such
as those carried out by Hamas in the Middle East or ETA in Spain.

He said of the attack on the US: "However appalling and disgusting it was, there
will nevertheless be a constituency of your listeners who don't regard it as
terrorism. Describing it as such could downgrade your status as an impartial and
independent broadcaster."

Because of its reputation for impartiality, the World Service has to be careful
about its use of language. It does not usually describe IRA attacks as
terrorism, because they may not be seen as such in a world context.

John Renner, commissioning editor for news programmes at the World Service, said
after the debate yesterday that while the attacks on New York and Washington had
put a strain on the policy, it had to be maintained.

US networks came in for particular criticism. Tony Burman, executive director at
the Canadian Broadcasting Corporation, said the US coverage of the crisis had
failed to take account of the international perspective: "It's depressing to see
the jingoism which is lamentably part of the culture and spirit of the
coverage." He said US networks regarded the attacks on Afghanistan as a football
match with Washington as the home team.

Comparing BBC World coverage of the war with that of the US networks, he said
they appeared to describe "two different wars".

Bill Wheatley, the vice-president of NBC, in a satellite link from New York,
rejected the charge of jingoism, but said: "It's true that US networks are
focusing on the attempt to defeat the Taliban and apprehend Osama bin Laden, but
I don't think we've been pulling punches in terms of the difficulties of the war
effort and the problems of US foreign policy."

He acknowledged that the Qatar-based news channel al-Jazeera was not always
regarded as a trusted source, despite its insistence of impartiality. "Because
they have been given special status in Kabul we feel it's correct that our
viewers know that they have that special access."


LOAD-DATE: November 15, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 2001 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              68 of 251 DOCUMENTS



                                   The Mirror

                          November 15, 2001, Thursday

TOT'S ATTACK TERROR

BYLINE: James Tait

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 154 words


A BRUTE who throttled his partner in front of a terrified two-year-old boy was
jailed yesterday.

Andrew Clark, 24, dragged Lynn Durrant by the hair, repeatedly punched her and
then squeezed her throat until she passed out.

But the High Court in Edinburgh heard the pair were still together.

Clark, who was initially charged with attempted murder, admitted the lesser
offence of assault to the danger of life in Kintore, Aberdeenshire, last year.

The thug launched his attack after a row with Miss Durrant, who was looking
after a friend's son. When she came round the tot was crying by her side.

Jailing Clark for three years, eleven months and 28 days, and imposing a 12
-month supervised release order, Judge Lord Bonomy said: "This is a difficult
case for me to deal with.

"You have the support of a partner you have been with for a number of years,
with whom you clearly wish to remain."

LOAD-DATE: November 15, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                            Copyright 2001 MGN Ltd.

                              69 of 251 DOCUMENTS

                            South Wales Evening Post

                               November 15, 2001

Heroes in Bethlehem greeting
 Mail for terrorist attack firefighters from famous Welsh village

BYLINE: By Sid Whitworth

SECTION: BUSINESS: POST OFFICE/ROYAL MAIL, Pg.25

LENGTH: 269 words


THE heroes of the World Trade Center terrorist attack will be getting mail
bearing the famous Bethlehem mark.

A card to the New York Fire Department will be sent all the way from South West
Wales.

Gwilym Richards who runs a little store and tea room in the small village near
Llandeilo named after Christ's birthplace says it is one of the most important
cards he has ever franked.

Believe

Mr Richards said: I could hardly believe it. This lady came into the shop and
handed me the card and I thought it was one of the nicest I had ever received.

It is addressed to the New York Fire Department, One Chase Manhattan Plaza, New
York 1005.

I believe she comes from Gowerton but I don't know whether she has a relative in
the department or just wants to send them good wishes from Wales.

But she specifically wanted the letter hand-stamped in Bethlehem with the
bilingual mark bearing the Christmas Day date with the words Llythyrdy and
Bethlehem."

For 15 years Mr Richards has been stamping mail handed to him by visitors from
all over the world and once again he expects a tired left elbow.

This weekend he is expecting two groups of motorcyclists from Taunton in Devon
with a bag of letters.

On Tuesday the Post Office's own Bethlehem stamper was in Llandeilo Post Office
to officially frank mail with a Bethlehem, Llandeilo"stamp free of charge.

Llandeilo primary school- children dressed as Mary, Joseph, shepherds and angels
were at the head of the queue.

(People can hand letters for official Bethlehem franking to any post office in
the UK but the stamping is usually done in Cardiff.

LOAD-DATE: January 23, 2002

LANGUAGE: English

GRAPHIC: LEFT Gwilym Richards, of Bethlehem Post Office. 23/10/97 F48-5204 BELOW
LEFT Llandeilo school children Rebecca Davies (Mary), Daniel Quick (Joseph),
Grant Hutchinson (shepherd) and angels Sophie Wheeler, Polly Amery, Sasha Willis
and Esmay Linsey, who all travelled to Bethlehem to post their Christmas cards.
Carolyn Evans d01-11-13/2894/ce

                    Copyright 2001 South Wales Evening Post

                              70 of 251 DOCUMENTS

                                Birmingham Post

                           November 16, 2001, Friday

WAR ON TERROR: COST OF TERROR ATTACKS SAME AS EARTHQUAKE

SECTION: Pg. 8

LENGTH: 252 words


The terror attacks on New York and Washington could cost the United States
roughly pounds 137 billion, equivalent to a devastating earthquake.

'The upshot is that the magnitude of costs appears to be manageable both in
absolute and relative terms given the enormous size of the United States
economy,' said the United Nations Economic Commission for Europe.

'But unlike an earthquake,' it added, 'the terrorist attacks and their aftermath
may have a deeper and longer-lasting psychological effect to the extent that
they have eroded people's sense of political and economic security.'

The terrorist attacks and the military reprisals on Afghanistan 'have amplified
the uncertainty that was already considerable' about the US and world economy at
the beginning of September, it said.

'At the time of the attacks the United States economy and those in other major
regions were on the edge of stagnation,' said the commission, which surveys the
economies of Europe and North America twice a year.

The commission said it was still too soon 'to gauge with any reasonable degree
of certainty' the full impact of the attacks on the Pentagon and World Trade
Centre, including the spillover effect on other countries.

But, it said, the estimated cost to the United States of pounds 137 billion
would be the equivalent of 2 per cent of the US economy's Gross Domestic
Product.

By comparison the 1995 earthquake in Kobe, Japan, cost pounds 82 billion, or 2.5
per cent of Japan's GDP, it said.

LOAD-DATE: November 16, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

               Copyright 2001 Midland Independent Newspapers plc

                              71 of 251 DOCUMENTS

                             The Guardian (London)

                               November 16, 2001

Six arrested over terrorist attacks

BYLINE: Vikram Dodd

SECTION: Guardian Home Pages, Pg. 14

LENGTH: 411 words


Anti-terrorist police yesterday made their first arrests in connection with the
Real IRA's 17-month bombing campaign on the English mainland.

Armed police raided a north London address at dawn and arrested five suspected
Real IRA members. A sixth man was arrested in Liverpool.

The dissident republican group, opposed to the peace process, has bombed a
string of targets in London and a fortnight ago was blamed for a device that
could have killed Saturday night revellers in Birmingham city centre.

The five men, aged between 20 and 40, were arrested under the provisions of the
Terrorism Act and taken to the high security Paddington Green police station for
questioning.

Last night police went to a farm at West Ardsley, West Yorkshire, as part of the
operation and carried out several controlled explosions as a precaution.

MI5 and Special Branch officers helped the Metropolitan police plan yesterday's
raid by the anti-terrorist squad and specialist firearm teams. Police refused to
say if any weapons were recovered from the addresses, but described yesterday's
development as "significant".

The man arrested in Liverpool has been taken to a police station there and is
being in terviewed by anti-terrorist branch officers.

Deputy Assistant Commissioner Alan Fry, of the anti-terrorist branch, said:
"Those in custody are being questioned in connection with the current bombing
campaign on the British mainland.

"Anti-terrorist and Special Branch officers worked closely with the security
services in planning the operation and were supported by the An Garda Siochana
and the Northern Ireland police service."

The attacks blamed on the Real IRA include a bomb left at Hammersmith bridge in
London in June last year. The following month there was an attack on a railway
line near Ealing Broadway station, west London. In September last year a rocket
attack was launched on the MI6 headquarters in London, and last March a taxi
packed with high explosives exploded outside the BBC Television Centre in
Shepherd's Bush, west London.

In April there was a small explosion at a sorting office in Hendon, north
London. In August, 11 people were injured when a Saab saloon blew up in a street
bustling with young people in Ealing, west London.

* Irish police investigating dissident republicans yesterday seized bomb-making
equipment at a dump in a wooded area two miles south of Dundalk, an alleged Real
IRA stronghold.


LOAD-DATE: November 16, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 2001 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              72 of 251 DOCUMENTS

                          THE JOURNAL (Newcastle, UK)

                      November 16, 2001, Friday Edition 1

Terror attacks hit hotel profits

BYLINE: By The Journal

SECTION: BUSINESS, Pg. 39

LENGTH: 130 words







Income at the Hilton Group's five-star London hotels are down 30pc in the
aftermath of the US terror attacks.

But Hilton, which is building a 30m four-star hotel on the banks of the Tyne at
Gateshead, says properties in the regions are only 2.9pc down in the last two
months.

And its betting and gaming arm, which includes Ladbrokes, continues to perform
well, with strong turnover levels in the four months to October 31.

Hilton does not expect an upturn in the performance of hotels in major cities
for at least six months.

In a trading statement, Hilton said capital spending, other than maintenance,
would be limited and steps taken to cut costs.

But it remained confident of riding out the crisis.

LOAD-DATE: November 29, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                Copyright 2001 Newcastle Chronicle & Journal Ltd

                              73 of 251 DOCUMENTS

                               Leicester mercury

                               November 16, 2001

Terror-attack ordeal for lorry driver

BYLINE: N. Ridley

SECTION: News; 999; Theft; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 233 words


BY nic ridley Police were today hunting two men who attacked the driver of an
articulated lorry after forcing him to pull off the A5 at Hinckley.

The two men were travelling in a Volvo car and signalled the lorry to pull in at
the Long Shoot junction, west of Hinckley.

While one talked to the lorry driver, the second man approached him from behind
and struck him on the back with a weapon.

For reasons the police were unable to reveal, the two men then made off.

The lorry was travelling from Tamworth to Hinckley to make a delivery at the
town's Safeway store.

The driver, a 33-year-old man from Birmingham, was taken to the George Eliot
Hospital in Nuneaton, where he was treated for shock and bruising before being
discharged.

The incident, which happened at 3pm yesterday, is being dealt with by
Warwickshire police with assistance from the Leicestershire force.

A Warwickshire police spokeswoman said: "The driver of the Volvo signalled for
the articulated lorry to stop." The spokeswoman added: "We have yet to take a
statement from the victim." The first man was described as white, of medium
build, with short hair. He was wearing a bomber jacket.

The victim failed to get a description of his attacker.

Anyone with information is asked to contact Warwickshire police on 01926 41500
or call the confidential Crimestoppers hotline on 0800 555 111.


LOAD-DATE: May 3, 2002

LANGUAGE: English

GRAPHIC: Austin Healey 117885-22

                        Copyright 2001 Leicester mercury

                              74 of 251 DOCUMENTS



                                   The Mirror

                           November 16, 2001, Friday

WAR ON TERROR: ATTACK FEARS IN RAMADAN

BYLINE: Steve Atkinson

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 184 words

HIGHLIGHT: SYMBOL: Crescent moon is seen


THE holy month of Ramadan starts today - prompting fears of a backlash from
Muslims if the US-led attacks on Afghanistan continue.

The precise timing of Ramadan - when observant Muslims do not eat, drink, smoke
or have sex between dawn and dusk - depends on the sighting of the new moon.

Military experts say the start of Ramadan presents a new challenge to efforts to
rout the Taliban and hunt down Osama bin Laden.

They warn that Western military strikes during Ramadan is likely to trigger
sympathy for Afghanistan in Muslim countries and possibly provoke protest
demonstrations.

And they fear attacks could also galvanise the Taliban, reinforcing beliefs that
they will win a higher place in paradise if they die during the holy month. But
Washington would not break any Islamic taboo if it carries on fighting.

Religious scholars and political analysts say battles during Ramadan are not
uncommon.

Clerics in Saudi Arabia, the United Arab Emirates, Qatar, Bahrain, Kuwait and
Yemen said the crescent of the moon had been sighted, marking the start of the
holy month.

LOAD-DATE: November 16, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                            Copyright 2001 MGN Ltd.

                              75 of 251 DOCUMENTS

                                  Western Mail

                           November 16, 2001, Friday

HILTON SUFFERS 'SIGNIFICANT IMPACT' AS TOURISTS STAY AWAY AFTER US TERRORIST
ATTACKS;
 HOTELS: REVENUES AT GROUP'S FIVE-STAR LONDON PROPERTIES DOWN 30PC IN AFTERMATH

BYLINE: Graeme Evans

SECTION: BUSINESS; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 286 words


THE Hilton group says the terrorist attacks of September 11 and the slowdown in
world economies have had a "significant impact" on its hotels business.

It said yesterday that revenues at its five-star London hotels are down 30pc in
the aftermath of the attacks.

Hilton added it was not expecting an upturn in the performance of hotels in
major cities such as London and Paris for at least six months.

Hardest hit during September and October were its two five-star London
properties - Hilton Park Lane and the Langham Hilton.

Revenues per available room from the two hotels are down 31.7pc on a year
earlier, although both were already under pressure prior to the September 11
attacks with revenues for July and August around 15pc lower.

Hilton's 11 four-star London hotels, including locations in Kensington and
Heathrow, have also reported a 14pc drop in business for September and October.
The figure was 0.5pc higher in July and August.

Hotels in Europe and the Americas also saw sharp falls, although venues more
dependent on local business have fared better.

Its properties across the UK outside London - including its five-star Cardiff
hotel - were down an average of only 2.9pc in the last two months.

In a trading statement, Hilton said capital expenditure, other than maintenance,
would be limited while steps would be taken to reduce costs.

However, it remained confident of riding out the crisis, "Previous experience
has told us that people will travel again and in large numbers internationally."

Hilton added that its betting and gaming arm, which includes Ladbrokes, had
continued to perform well with strong turnover levels in the four months to
October 31.

LOAD-DATE: November 20, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                    Copyright 2001 Western Mail and Echo Ltd

                              76 of 251 DOCUMENTS

                                  Daily Record

                          November 17, 2001, Saturday

DAY 'TERRORISTS' ATTACKED DOME

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 19

LENGTH: 87 words


A MILLENNIUM Dome worker thought raiders in a failed pounds 200million diamond
heist were terrorists, the Old Bailey heard yesterday.

Chef Jason Forest said he feared they would destroy the Dome after crashing a
JCB into it last year. The jury heard he was yards away when armed police came
from behind, trapping him in the firing line.

Aldo Ciarrocchi, 31, Robert Adams, 57, Raymond Betson, 39, William Cockran, 48,
Kevin Meredith, 34, and Wayne Taylor, 35, deny conspiracy to rob. The trial
continues.

LOAD-DATE: November 17, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

            Copyright 2001 Scottish Daily Record & Sunday Mail Ltd.

                              77 of 251 DOCUMENTS

                                   The Grocer

                               November 17, 2001

The terrorist attacks on the US on September 11 and the subs

SECTION: FEATURES; Pg. 47

LENGTH: 487 words


The latest economic view from PricewaterhouseCoopers' Macroeconomics unit is
that a slowdown is more likely in the UK than an outright recession. Consumer
spending is forecast to grow by 3.75% for 2001 as a whole, before dropping to
2.75% in 2002, although clearly there are significant downside risks if, for
example, there are further terrorist attacks.

Already, we in the M&A world are experiencing some changes in attitudes. Some
venture capitalists and debt providers are more risk averse, prices are being
renegotiated (as was the case with WT Foods at the end of September) and the
entire transaction process is taking longer than usual. Those deals that do not
have a strong strategic or cross-border rationale behind them have a more
limited chance of being completed.

The beverages sector has proved itself particularly resilient, and the last few
months have seen a flurry of deal activity in both soft and alcoholic drinks
segments.

Allied Domecq has been among the most prolific, taking control of Bodegas y
Bebidas (a Spanish wine producer), Kuemmerling (German spirits), Buena Vista
Winery (Californian wine), two Argentinean wine producers and the Montana wine
business in New Zealand. Cadbury-Schweppes has agreed to purchase
Pernod-Ricard's soft drinks business, which includes Orangina (the number two
brand in France), and has also picked up La Casera, which is the third largest
soft drink manufacturer in Spain.

Closer to home, the Kerry Group's highest profile deal was the acquisition of
Golden Vale, but it has also added Platter Foods (desserts and chilled salads),
Voyager Foods' sauces and flavoured butters division, and several other
ingredients/flavours businesses. Hibernia followed up its La Boheme deal with
the purchase of Sara Lee's UK bakery business, while other UK deals of note
included Cranswick buying Continental Fine Foods and Richmond taking over
Nestle's UK ice cream business.

Major deals in the food and drink sector tend to produce a subsequent flow of
smaller disposals as portfolios are cleaned up, and a good example of this has
been Greencore since it took control of Hazelwood Foods in January. The sale of
five companies (a Dutch frozen meat snack business, three fish processing
companies and a Dutch waffle manufacturer) in October 2001 took the proceeds
from its disposal programme close to 100m euros.

The last six months have also seen a number of corporate failures, with
Snackhouse, Tinsley and Devon Desserts prominent among them. It seems almost
inevitable that there will be further casualties in the food and drink sector
over the next six months, especially among those suppliers who do not have
significant market share in a particular category, those who rely on one major
customer or those who lack the ability to develop innovative products.

l Neil Sutton is head of consumer products, PricewaterhouseCoopers Corporate
Finance


LOAD-DATE: November 21, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                  Copyright 2001 William Reed Publishing Ltd.

                              78 of 251 DOCUMENTS

                            South Wales Evening Post

                               November 17, 2001

130 jobs axed at aerospace firm
 Knock-on effects of terror attacks blamed for redundancies

BYLINE: By Diane Williams

SECTION: GENERAL: EMPLOYMENT/UNEMPLOYED, Pg.1

LENGTH: 364 words


MORE than 130 workers at a Llanelli aerospace company are to lose their jobs.

CF Taylor B/E Aerospace UK, which makes kitchen galleys and interior furnishings
for most of the world's airlines, employs around 400 people at its base on the
Dafen Industrial Estate.

Workers were told this week that 96 people would be losing their jobs before
Christmas and another 38 posts will go in the new year.

The redundancies were blamed on a downturn in demand for air travel following
the September 11 terror attacks in America.

Speaking from America, director of investor relations Max Kuniansky said it was
not company policy to talk about individual factories.

But president and chief executive officer Robert J Khoury said in a statement
released by the company: The US airline industry is experiencing severe
financial stress in the wake of the September 11 attacks.

As expected, our airline customers have implemented stringent cash conservation
measures. This has significantly reduced demand for our aircraft cabin interior
products, necessitating the actions we announce today.''

He added: Regrettably, these actions are necessary to ensure B/E's viability in
adverse conditions.

Air travel is down dramatically in the wake of the September 11 attacks.

In response, US airlines have reduced scheduled flights, taken about 20 per cent
of their aircraft out of service and announced workforce reductions which will
likely involve more than 100,000 workers.

Our customers' need to conserve cash has substantially reduced after-market
demand for B/E's products.

We expect spending on cabin interior retrofits and refurbishments to be affected
for the foreseeable future.

In addition, current forecasts indicate that deliveries of new aircraft will be
down significantly for several years.

Given the reduction in both aftermarket and new aircraft demand, we have no
choice but to downsize our operations.''

A spokeswoman for Carmarthenshire Council confirmed it had been informed of the
redundancies.

The Welsh Development Agency, ELWa, the Employment Service and Business Connect
will be working together to assist employees through training and financial
support.

LOAD-DATE: January 23, 2002

LANGUAGE: English

                    Copyright 2001 South Wales Evening Post

                              79 of 251 DOCUMENTS

                            South Wales Evening Post

                               November 17, 2001

100 jobs go due to terror attacks

SECTION: GENERAL: EMPLOYMENT/UNEMPLOYED, Pg.3

LENGTH: 136 words


MORE than 100 workers at a Llanelli aerospace company are to lose their jobs.

CF Taylor B/E Aerospace UK, which makes kitchen galleys and interior furnishings
for most of the world's airlines, employs around 400 people at its base on the
Dafen Industrial Estate.

Workers were told this week that 96 people would be losing their jobs before
Christmas, with another 38 posts to go in the new year.

The redundancies are the result of a downturn in demand for air travel following
the September 11 terror attacks in America.

A spokeswoman for Carmarthenshire Council confirmed it had been informed of the
redundancies.

The Welsh Development Agency, Education and Learning Wales, the Employment
Service and Business Connect will be working together to assist the workers with
training and financial support.

LOAD-DATE: January 23, 2002

LANGUAGE: English

                    Copyright 2001 South Wales Evening Post

                              80 of 251 DOCUMENTS

                            South Wales Evening Post

                               November 17, 2001

130 jobs axed at aerospace firm; Knock-on effects of terror attacks blamed for
redundancies

BYLINE: Diane Williams

SECTION: GENERAL; EMPLOYMENT/UNEMPLOYED; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 367 words


MORE than 130 workers at a Llanelli aerospace company are to lose their jobs.
CF Taylor B/E Aerospace UK, which makes kitchen galleys and interior furnishings
for most of the world's airlines, employs around 400 people at its base on the
Dafen Industrial Estate.

Workers were told this week that 96 people would be losing their jobs before
Christmas and another 38 posts will go in the new year.

The redundancies were blamed on a downturn in demand for air travel following
the September 11 terror attacks in America.

Speaking from America, director of investor relations Max Kuniansky said it was
not company policy to talk about individual factories.

But president and chief executive officer Robert J Khoury said in a statement
released by the company: "The US airline industry is experiencing severe
financial stress in the wake of the September 11 attacks.

"As expected, our airline customers have implemented stringent cash conservation
measures. This has significantly reduced demand for our aircraft cabin interior
products, necessitating the actions we announce today.'' He added: "Regrettably,
these actions are necessary to ensure B/E's viability in adverse conditions.

"Air travel is down dramatically in the wake of the September 11 attacks.

"In response, US airlines have reduced scheduled flights, taken about 20 per
cent of their aircraft out of service and announced workforce reductions which
will likely involve more than 100,000 workers.

"Our customers' need to conserve cash has substantially reduced after-market
demand for B/E's products.

"We expect spending on cabin interior retrofits and refurbishments to be
affected for the foreseeable future.

"In addition, current forecasts indicate that deliveries of new aircraft will be
down significantly for several years.

"Given the reduction in both aftermarket and new aircraft demand, we have no
choice but to downsize our operations.'' A spokeswoman for Carmarthenshire
Council confirmed it had been informed of the redundancies.

The Welsh Development Agency, ELWa, the Employment Service and Business Connect
will be working together to assist employees through training and financial
support.


LOAD-DATE: April 28, 2002

LANGUAGE: English

                    Copyright 2001 South Wales Evening Post

                              81 of 251 DOCUMENTS

                            South Wales Evening Post

                               November 17, 2001

100 jobs go due to terror attacks

SECTION: GENERAL; EMPLOYMENT/UNEMPLOYED; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 137 words


MORE than 100 workers at a Llanelli aerospace company are to lose their jobs.
CF Taylor B/E Aerospace UK, which makes kitchen galleys and interior furnishings
for most of the world's airlines, employs around 400 people at its base on the
Dafen Industrial Estate. Workers were told this week that 96 people would be
losing their jobs before Christmas, with another 38 posts to go in the new year.

The redundancies are the result of a downturn in demand for air travel following
the September 11 terror attacks in America.

A spokeswoman for Carmarthenshire Council confirmed it had been informed of the
redundancies.

The Welsh Development Agency, Education and Learning Wales, the Employment
Service and Business Connect will be working together to assist the workers with
training and financial support.


LOAD-DATE: April 28, 2002

LANGUAGE: English

                    Copyright 2001 South Wales Evening Post

                              82 of 251 DOCUMENTS

                             The News of the World

                               November 18, 2001

FIRST BRITISH TERROR ATTACK VICTIM BURIED

SECTION: BATTLE BRIEFING

LENGTH: 123 words


    THE first funeral of the 85 British victims killed in the September 11
attacks has taken place in the Hebrides.

    Gavin Cushny, 47, was buried on the remote Isle of Lewis.

    The computer consultant-who worked for stockbroking company Cantor
Fitzgerald-was on the 104th floor of the World Trade Center's north tower when a
United Airlines jet smashed into it.

    His funeral was held at the small church where he was to marry his American
fiancee Susan Brady, 43, in October. Susan was at the service along with Gavin's
78-year-old mother Sybil, brother Rupert and sister Myra.

    Gavin left Scotland for the US 20 years ago. His coffin was draped in the
American flag which was presented to his mother after the service.


LOAD-DATE: November 20, 2001

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Newspaper

                    Copyright 2001 NEWS GROUP NEWSPAPERS LTD

                              83 of 251 DOCUMENTS

                                  The Observer

                               November 18, 2001

Taliban vow to fight on as battle rages for strongholds: Death of terrorist
attack mastermind confirmed

BYLINE: Paul Harris Quetta

SECTION: Observer News Pages, Pg. 2

LENGTH: 639 words


TALIBAN leaders were clinging on to power in their remaining strongholds last
night and pledging they would keep Kandahar, their spiritual and political
heartland.

The southern city appeared to be firmly in Taliban hands yesterday, despite
rumours last week of a planned withdrawal.

A spokesman for the Taliban leader, Mullah Omar, said the rumours that the
Taliban had left Kandahar were lies and that thousands of loyal troops were
still in the city. 'We have decided to fight to retain control,' Mohamed Tayeb
al-Agha said.

The announcement that the Taliban planned to stand and fight for their last
stronghold came as Taliban spokesmen first confirmed that US bombing had killed
Mohamed Atef, one of Osama bin Laden's two most important lieutenants and the
suspected military planner of the attacks on America on 11 September.

A Taliban official in southern Afghanistan confirmed that Atef died with seven
other members of al-Qaeda, bin Laden's terrorist group.

US officials said on Friday that Atef, an Egyptian, was believed to have been
killed by US warplanes south of the Afghan capital, Kabul, on Wednesday or
Thursday.

Despite the Taliban's defiant noises, it was becoming clear that their hold on
the the last remaining areas of countryside was slipping as teams of US special
forces extended their operations to active combat in the south with the forces
of the Taliban and al-Qaeda.

In the northern city of Kondoz, Taliban fighters were still battling fiercely
despite heavy losses. Refugees coming out of the city said US strikes had hit
the main Taliban headquarters, setting it on fire and killing many. US bombs
were also pounding Taliban defences. Kondoz is the last Taliban-held city in the
north of Afghanistan.

In the hills of Paghman, 12 miles from Kabul, several hundred retreating Arab
and Pakistani fighters were involved in a fierce battle against Northern
Alliance soldiers two days ago, according to witnesses yesterday.

The past week has seen a collapse of Taliban rule and massive Northern Alliance
gains. The Taliban have seen their hold on the country shrink from more than 90
per cent to about a third. Most of the territory was won as local Taliban
changed sides.

Further attempts to win defections were continuing last night as the Taliban
retreated from south-west Farah province. There were reports of al-Qaeda troops
massacring Taliban soldiers to prevent them from defecting.

In Kondoz, negotiations under way with the Taliban mayor to get local fighters
to give up were being hampered by the presence of al-Qaeda members and others.

'The mayor of Kondoz is negotiating with local Taliban and they say we will give
up the city for you. But the foreign Taliban will never accept this,' said a
Northern Alliance Foreign Ministry official, speaking by telephone from Taloqan,
about 35 miles east of Kondoz.

In Kandahar, Pashtun tribal leaders were also moving to secure Taliban
defections.

As the coalition offensive continued, France said that it would contribute
attack jets, and that 58 French troops would reach the northern town of
Mazar-e-Sharif tomor row to help humanitarian relief efforts.

Confusion over whether bin Laden was still in Afghansitan continued amid
itelligence reports that the British and American special forces had pinpointed
his whereabouts to a hilly 30-mile square area of in the southeast of the
country.

Qatar's al-Jazeera satellite television blamed 'poor trans lation' for earlier
reports quoting the Taliban's envoy to Pakistan, Mullah Abdul Salam Zaeef,
saying the world's most wanted man had 'left with his wives and children and we
have no idea where he has gone'.

Zaeef, who returned from Afghanistan saying he had an important message for
Pakistan, later denied bin Laden had left the country.


LOAD-DATE: November 18, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

                   Copyright 2001 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              84 of 251 DOCUMENTS

                                 Sunday Express

                               November 18, 2001

WORLD TRADE CENTER SCOT'S FUNERAL IN CHURCH WHERE HE WAS TO MARRY; VICTIM OF THE
US TERROR ATTACK FINALLY LAID TO REST

BYLINE: BY MEG MILNE

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 30

LENGTH: 334 words


THE first funeral of a British victim of the September 11 terrorist attacks took
place yesterday on the remote Scottish island where he was brought up.

Gavin Cushny, 47, was buried at the Habost Cemetery, near Ness, on the most
northerly tip of the Isle of Lewis, in the Hebrides.

His 78-year-old mother Sybil Eales-Whyte, his brother, Rupert, and his sister,
Myra, were among the 40 mourners who attended the funeral.

Mr Cushny's fiancee, American nurse Susann Brady, flew from the US to join his
family for the service.

The couple had planned to return to the island three weeks ago to be married at
St Molug's Episcopal Church at Ness, where Mr Cushny's late father had been the
priest.

Mr Cushny, a St Andrews University graduate moved to America 20 years ago to
work and became a computer consultant with stockbrokers Cantor Fitzgerald.

He was working in the company's offices on the 104th floor when one of the
hijacked planes hit the north tower of the World Trade Center.

At the funeral, Gavin's coffin was draped in an American flag, which was
presented to his mother after the service.

After the funeral, a family friend said: "Our lives changed forever on September
11 and the loss of Gavin has been a terrible shock to us all. This is an
extremely sad time.

"The very public way that Gavin was tragically killed further emphasises the
fact that we would like to keep his return to Scotland a private family occasion
to let us come to terms with our grief in the quiet of our family."

The funeral service was conducted by the Rev Stanley Bennie, who was to have
married the couple in the same church.

Another family friend, the Rev Kenneth Ferguson, read a Gaelic prayer.

Mr Cushny's mother, who has lived in Lewis for the past 32 years, has also
attended a special memorial service for her son in America.

Two other Scots who were working in the South Tower, Christopher Newton Carter
and Derek Sword, are both still missing, presumed dead.

LOAD-DATE: November 22, 2001

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Newspaper

                       Copyright 2001 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS

                              85 of 251 DOCUMENTS

                                  Sunday Mail

                           November 18, 2001, Sunday

TERRORIST ATTACK NEW YORK: WTC VICTIM BURIED ON LEWIS

BYLINE: Bill Lucas

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 157 words


THE first UK funeral of a World Trade Centre victim was held on the Isle of
Lewis yesterday.

Gavin Cushny, 47, was buried in windswept Habost cemetery - just across the bay
from the church where he should have married his fiancee last month.

He worked as a computer consultant for Cantor Fitzgerald on the 104th floor of
the north tower.

The 40 mourners included his 78-year-old mother Sybil Eales-White, of South
Dell, in Lewis, and his fiancee Susan Brady, 43, from New Jersey. The couple had
planned to marry at Ness on October 28

Gavin's body arrived from the States in a Customs sealed coffin, draped with the
American flag.

The flag was presented to his mother after the service, which was conducted by
the Rev Stanley Bennie, of St Peter's Episcopal Church, in Stornoway.

In a statement, the family said: "Our lives changed forever on September 11 and
the loss of Gavin has been a terrible shock to us all."

LOAD-DATE: November 18, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

            Copyright 2001 Scottish Daily Record & Sunday Mail Ltd.

                              86 of 251 DOCUMENTS

                         The Sunday Telegraph (LONDON)

                           November 18, 2001, Sunday

US terror attacks have driven people to drink - and back to cigarettes Anxiety
to blame for 'retreat into unhealthy behaviour'

BYLINE: BY RAJEEV SYAL AND DAVID BAMBER

SECTION: Pg. 11

LENGTH: 618 words

SALES OF cigarettes and alcohol have soared since the terrorist atrocities in
the United States - and five per cent of former smokers have returned to their
old habit.

One senior executive at British American Tobacco, the cigarette manufacturer,
said the company had experienced rising sales since September 11 because of
widespread global anxiety.

"Existing smokers are smoking more, according to our sales people. We believe
that part of this jump, towards the end of September this year, can be
attributed to the atrocities. People are more anxious and less health conscious
since September 11," he said.

The disclosure coincides with a comprehensive survey showing that a third of
smokers are buying more cigarettes since September 11.

The survey of 2,000 adults, conducted by the Cancer Society and GlaxoSmithKline,
the pharmaceutical group, to be released this month, will also reveal that about
five per cent of former smokers have returned to cigarettes in the wake of the
terrorist attacks.

Thomas Glynn, the director of trends at the Cancer Society, said that his
colleagues across the world had reported a rise in anxiety-related behaviour,
including smoking. He urged a return to healthier times.

"The attack on September 11, as well as fears over war and biological attacks,
are understandably causing many people to retreat to unhealthy behaviour such as
smoking. As part of our global efforts to return to normalcy, we must focus
again on personal health," he said.

British campaigners have also received reports from cancer charities that
one-time smokers are returning to the habit. Clive Bates, the director of ASH,
the anti-smoking lobby group, said: "There is anecdotal evidence for this in
Britain. People are more desperate for something to cling to because the world
feels more out of control. Cigarettes offer that crutch. Their world is spinning
away from them. Tobacco represents something that remains a constant."

Alcohol-related crime has also jumped, according to the Home Office. Tom Watson,
a leading member of the House of Commons home affairs committee, said yesterday:
"I have received reports that sales in pubs and clubs have shot through the roof
since September 11. This has led to a corresponding increase in alcohol-related
crime.

"Of course, most places haven't got audited sales figures yet, but it certainly
seems there is evidence of people taking to alcohol in this time of great
stress."

Alcohol sales figures for September have yet to be released by the main
distilleries and breweries. But a survey of leading retailers by The Sunday
Telegraph in Birmingham, London and Manchester discovered that sales at most
off-licences have jumped since the attacks.

Sales have also gone up at outlets on the Continent, where Britons traditionally
stock up on alcohol. The duty manager at the Tesco hypermarket in Calais said
there had been a significant increase in customers both from Britain and France
since September 11. He said: "I have noticed a large increase in people coming
from Britain to stock up."

The rise in unhealthy pursuits has prompted the General Medical Council to
discuss how a demand for nicotine patches and tranquillisers has placed greater
strains on GPs.

Dr Shiv Pande, the GMC's treasurer, said that GMC members have noted a downturn
in the nation's health since September. "The world is not the same. Everything
we took for granted, including air travel and just going to work in safety, has
been thrown into question.

"As a result there are many more people demanding medical help and a greater
strain on doctors. There is not anyone who has not been stressed by this," he
said.
[PS]News: [ES]

THE WEST AT WAR:

LOAD-DATE: November 18, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 2001 The Telegraph Group Limited

                              87 of 251 DOCUMENTS

                             Sunday Times (London)

                           November 18, 2001, Sunday

Funeral of terror attacks victim

SECTION: Home news

LENGTH: 78 words


THE first funeral of a British victim of the September 11 terrorist attacks in
the United States took place in Ness on the Isle of Lewis yesterday. Gavin
Cushny, 47, worked as a computer consultant on the 104th floor of the north
tower of the World Trade Center. His mother, brother and sister were among the
40 mourners. His American fiancee, nurse practitioner Susann Brady, 43, whom he
was due to marry in Ness last month, was also at the service.


LOAD-DATE: November 23, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: News in brief

                    Copyright 2001 Times Newspapers Limited

                              88 of 251 DOCUMENTS

                                Wales on Sunday

                           November 18, 2001, Sunday

TERROR ATTACKS SWAY CHRISTMAS TOY TRENDS;
 FAMILIES SNUB VIOLENCE FOR OLD -FASHIONED TOYS - EXPERT

BYLINE: Byjohn Gilheaney

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 594 words


SALES of old-fashioned games are increasing this year as families return to
traditional values after the September 11 attacks.

Bedlinog-born Ian Gibb says he has noticed the turning-back-the-clock trend in
his role as toy buyer for London's giant toy store, Hamleys.

And although new computer games such as Game Boy Advance are still likely to
dominate the top ten 10, 'old-fashioned' toys are staging a comeback, with Lego
benefiting from the Harry Potter craze.

Ian, known in the industry as The Legend for his uncanny ability to spot the
year's big hit, was the man who made novelty toy Billy Bass popular last
Christmas.

And the expert reckons that this season's presents are nodding to the past as
shoppers try to put the year's tragic events behind them.

"Because of the terrorist atrocity on September 11 board games are selling
really well because they bring families together, " says the 47-year-old.

"They said nothing will ever be the same again after that day and it has
affected everything. People are thinking they should take more time out to get
together with their families. For example Lego is very popular because of the
endorsement it has had from Harry Potter."

Ian believes sales of games and toys with an aggressive element will fall this
year.

"Shoot 'em up games have been put on the back burner and computer games with a
hostage element or realistic graphics are not selling well in Britain or the
USA.

"In fact in the front of our store we've had a little Hamleys aeroplane on
display year after year. It's just a plane that you throw and it comes back. But
since the tragedy we have had some complaints that it was in bad taste so we've
taken it down."

Ian, who has worked at Hamleys since the late 80s, says Harry Potter toys are
set to dominate the Christmas toy charts.

"There's so much of it out there from art and craft to board games.

It's selling across the board so Harry Potter will be particularly hard to beat
- they will sell hundreds of millions of pounds worth worldwide.

"It's hard to say if Harry Potter will be the best- selling range of all time
because it's up against Star Wars.

"The last Star Wars film did not come up to expectation and buyers had their
fingers burnt because there was a lot of merchandise left on the shelf.

"But Harry Potter has just started, they're about to begin filming the second
film and there will be another four of five to come, so it's got a good chance
of beating previous records."

Ian thinks that this is a very good year for Christmas toys with something to
cater for every taste.

"On the novelty side Thunderbirds are doing very well. And there are some
singing novelty hamsters that are very good.

"There's a hip hop hamster, a rapping hamster and a Kung Fu hamster which sings:
'Everybody was Kung Fu fighting'.And a walking hand, like the one in the Addams
Family, that walks across the table is very popular."

As for the new Billy Bass, Ian says we'll have to wait a while.

"Something like Billy Bass comes out once every five or six years and then
everybody tries to copy it. It's a one-off really."

HAMLEYS' TOP 10 TOYS THIS CHRISTMAS HERE are Hamleys predictions for this year's
Top 10 Christmas toys (in no particular order). Game Boy advance: pounds 89.99
Harry Potter Lego: pounds 79.99 Radio Control Hovercraft: pounds 99.99 Harry
Potter's Book of Spells: pounds 26.99 Vectron: pounds 129.99 Cranium : pounds
29.99 Airgo Pogo Stick: pounds 89.99 Woodkins: pounds 12.99 Noah's Ark: pounds
29.99

LOAD-DATE: November 20, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: TREND-SETTER: Ian with big hit Billy Bass KICKS FROM BRICKS: Lego was
as popular in the fifties as it still is today

                    Copyright 2001 Western Mail and Echo Ltd

                              89 of 251 DOCUMENTS

                          THE DAILY TELEGRAPH(LONDON)

                           November 19, 2001, Monday

Obituary of Mohammed Atef Terrorist thought to have planned al-Qa'eda's attacks
on the World Trade Centre and US embassies in Africa

SECTION: Pg. 23

LENGTH: 650 words

MOHAMMED ATEF, who has been killed in an al-Qa'eda stronghold south of Kabul,
was military strategist for Osama bin Laden, and thought by the American
authorities to have been responsible for planning the attacks on the World Trade
Centre and the bombings of American embassies in 1998.

Most analysts believe that it was Atef to whom Tony Blair was referring when he
said that there was strong evidence that "one of bin Laden's closest and most
senior associates was responsible for the detailed planning of the attacks [on
New York and Washington]". Certainly, Atef was one of bin Laden's closest
confidants, having met the Saudi terrorist in the early 1980s; his 14-year-old
daughter married bin Laden's son Mohammed at the beginning of this year in a
ceremony televised by the Qatar-based satellite station al-Jazeera.

Atef, also known as Abu Hafs al-Masri, Abu Khadijah and Sheikh Taseer Abdullah,
was unquestionably a shadowy figure. The FBI's "Most Wanted Terrorists" website,
which described him as around 6ft 5in, dark-haired, olive-skinned and
Arabic-speaking, listed his distinguishing marks and date of birth only as
"unknown".

There is general agreement that he was born in Egypt, perhaps in the village of
Quenna, probably in either 1944 or 1953. Atef worked first as a police officer,
but came to prominence after deserting to become a member of Egyptian Islamic
Jihad (EIJ), of which Ayman al-Zawahiri - now often cited as bin Laden's
principal lieutenant - was then a leader. The group merged with al-Qa'eda in
1998 as part of the International Front for Fighting Jews and Crusades. EIJ had
been responsible for the murder of the Egyptian president Anwar Sadat in 1981,
and Atef fled the country soon afterwards for Afghanistan, where he operated for
a while as bin Laden's media officer, and assisted in the recruitment of
volunteers for the war against the Soviet Union. He followed bin Laden to Saudi
Arabia, then into exile in Sudan.

In 1990, Atef was wanted in connection with the murder of the Speaker of the
Egyptian Parliament, Rifaat al-Mahgoub; in 1999 Egypt sentenced him to life
imprisonment in absentia after he was convicted of subversion.

Having risen through the ranks of al-Qa'eda to become director of security,
taking on responsibility for training and planning, Atef is believed to have
travelled to provide "military assistance to Somali tribes" several times during
1992 and 1993; attacks on American forces in the latter year led to 18 deaths,
when US Rangers were killed trying to apprehend the Somali warlord Mohammed
Farah Aideed.

Atef was listed second, after bin Laden, on the US government's indictments for
the embassy bombings in Nairobi and Dar-es-Salaam which killed 244 and injured
thousands in 1998. James Rubin, the state department's spokesman, later
announced a reward of $5 million for information about his whereabouts.

Atef was also thought by some to have been implicated in last year's suicide
attack on the warship USS Cole in Yemen. He was cited by name in an order
freezing terrorist assets shortly after the atrocities of September 11.

Some observers had suggested that in recent months Atef had been supplanted in
the chain of command by Zainul Abideen, a Palestinian also known as Abu
Zubediah, but Atef remained a constant figure at bin Laden's side in recordings
and photographs released from the terrorists' bases in Afghanistan.

Last month he was reported by the Islamic Observation Centre in London as saying
that American troops would be trounced. "America will not realise its
miscalculations until its soldiers are dragged [though the streets] in
Afghanistan like they were in Somalia."

Atef's death in an American bombing raid was confirmed yesterday by Abdul Salam
Zaeef, the Taliban's ambassador to Pakistan, who said he had been "martyred in
the US bombing of Kabul".
[PS]News: [ES]

Chess:

LOAD-DATE: November 19, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 2001 Telegraph Group Limited

                              90 of 251 DOCUMENTS

                             The Gloucester Citizen

                               November 19, 2001

Sex attack terror for girl

SECTION: AGENCY: AGENCY, Pg.6

LENGTH: 390 words


A 21-YEAR-old man who suffered brain damage when he was kicked in the head by a
horse as a baby has been jailed for four years for indecently assaulting a
terrified 18-year-old girl.

Michael Griffin had developed physically but his mental problems meant he could
not control his sexual desires.

Griffin, of Oxstalls Way, Gloucester, had been convicted of indecent assault by
North Gloucestershire magistrates and sent to Gloucester Crown Court for
sentence.

It heard how at 2pm on September 26 Griffin ran down an alleyway after the
teenager when she had just got off the Gloucester to Churchdown bus to walk
home.

Prosecutor Kirsty Real said Griffin grabbed her from behind and held her by the
arms before trying to kiss her, then he indecently assaulted her.

"She screamed," said Miss Real. "Mr Griffin said: 'Shut up or I'll kill you'."

Half way through the attack Griffin remembered a black balaclava he had planned
to disguise himself with. The victim finally managed to knee Griffin in the
groin and escape.

Miss Real said: "The woman said she was 'frozen to the spot' because she was so
scared."

Griffin followed the woman into a nearby car park where he apologised and
offered her money not to tell anyone. He then drove away but as he left the
woman managed to input his registration number into her mobile phone.

Since the attack the woman had lost confidence and could not face going out
alone, the court heard.

Police later found a home -made black balaclava discarded in a bin outside
Griffin's house.

In interview Griffin said he intended to chat up the teenager and denied
touching her but later admitted doing so.

Pornographic magazines and a video were found in his room, the court heard.

George Threlfall, defending, said a serious accident that Griffin had suffered
as a child had left him brain damaged and unable to socialise normally.

"He has developed physically into an adult but without developing inwardly in a
way to curb his sexual desires in such a way as to function normally," he said.

Sending Griffin to prison would worsen his mental state further, the court was
told.

But Judge Gabriel Hutton told him: "This attack has had a devastating effect on
this woman - she will never forget this event."

Besides being jailed, Griffin was also ordered to sign the Sex Offenders'
Register.

LOAD-DATE: November 23, 2001

LANGUAGE: English

                     Copyright 2001 The Gloucester Citizen

                              91 of 251 DOCUMENTS

                                 Liverpool Echo

                           November 19, 2001, Monday

FIRE GANG TERROR OF BUS ATTACK DRIVER

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 146 words


A BUS driver and passenger were taken to hospital after an arson attack.

The pair were choked by smoke as a gang of youths tried to start a fire on the
double decker.

They stuffed papers into seats on the top deck before lighting them and running
away in Park Road, Toxteth, at around 10pm yesterday.

Paramedics treated the driver and passenger, who were gasping for air, while
firefighters put out the smouldering papers.

Both victims were taken to hospital by ambulance and treated for the effects of
smoke inhalation.

They have since been allowed home.

The incident follows an increase in attacks on public transport staff, which has
led to parts of Liverpool being declared "no-go zones" by some bus companies.

A fire brigade spokesman said: "If there had been more passengers on the bus
last night it could have been a lot more serious."

LOAD-DATE: November 19, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

               Copyright 2001 The Liverpool Daily Post & Echo Ltd

                              92 of 251 DOCUMENTS



                                   The Mirror

                           November 19, 2001, Monday

WAR ON TERROR: THE HOME SECRETARY EXPLAINS WHY THE LAW MUST CHANGE TO MAKE OUR
CITIES SAFE FROM TERROR ATTACKS

BYLINE: David Blunkett

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 428 words


THERE are many difficult challenges which come with the job of Home Secretary
but none is more testing than the responsibility to do everything possible to
protect our lives from terrorist attack.

After September 11, I listened to the reports of answerphone messages and
families putting up posters of the people they had loved most in the world with
the same distress and sorrow that was felt across Britain.

But I also knew that mine was the responsibility to ensure that our laws did
everything possible to deter and disrupt terrorists from attempting the same
horrors here.

I found our laws, although generally tough from years of fighting Irish
terrorism, were not as robust as they needed to be.

We face a new generation of mobile phone terrorists, using sophisticated fake
IDs and the internet.

These people exploit ease of travel in Europe - and in some cases - the
hospitality we give asylum- seekers - to plot death and terror.

I have said repeatedly since September 11 that there is a heightened level of
threat to the UK and we have taken steps to protect ourselves.

One essential step is the right to detain those who we believe to be a threat to
our security, who claim asylum as soon as they are picked up in a bid to avoid
being detained.

This is only ever likely to be a small number of people but I cannot let them
roam the streets and give them the opportunity to disappear.

The evidence against these people will be based on intelligence, so I can't
publish it in open court without giving Osama bin Laden information about our
security services. However, any decision I take to detain such individuals will
be scrutinised and can be overturned by a special committee headed by a High
Court judge who will have access to all the secret intelligence.

Anyone facing this process will be represented by a lawyer with full access to
the evidence.

I don't have a problem with anyone raising questions about human rights. As far
as I am concerned our most basic right is the right to live peacefully and
safely, protected from the likes of those who fly aircraft full of innocent
people into office blocks.

To defend our freedom to live the way we choose, we occasionally have to
restrict that freedom.

It is not something I do lightly or that I intend to be permanent.

But the responsibility to make Britain a difficult place from which to commit
terrorist acts rests largely on my shoulders.

Future generations would never forgive me, or the Government, if we failed to
take this threat seriously.

LOAD-DATE: November 19, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                            Copyright 2001 MGN Ltd.

                              93 of 251 DOCUMENTS

                                  Western Mail

                           November 19, 2001, Monday

SLOWDOWN IN HOUSING MARKET CONTINUES FOLLOWING SEPTEMBER'S TERRORIST ATTACKS

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 247 words


THE slowdown in the housing market has continued following September's terrorist
attacks though there is unlikely to be a sharp fall in property prices, an
estate agent has found.

Research carried out by Bradford & Bingley Estate Agents found that housing
demand remained strong and despite a slowdown in the market prices had only
dipped slightly.

But it added that consumer confidence had been dented by the disaster, with 80pc
of its staff saying people were now more cautious than before and the majority
saying buyers were holding back from moving until next year.

The group said the slowdown which began during the summer was continuing and
nearly half of its agents reported that prices had been affected by the attacks,
though it added that there was unlikely to be a widespread fall in property
values.

On average properties are selling for 96pc of their asking price, just 1pc lower
than during September and homes are selling quickly, with it taking an average
of eight weeks to find a buyer compared to 11 weeks in June.

The group added that demand for property remained strong, with around six people
chasing each house on the market, increasing to 10 in the South East, though
this was down from 13 in June.

Ian Davies, regional business director for Bradford & Bingley Estate Agents,
said, "The pace of the housing market has certainly slowed since the events of
September 11 but the situation is clearly not as bad as many had feared."

LOAD-DATE: November 20, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                    Copyright 2001 Western Mail and Echo Ltd

                              94 of 251 DOCUMENTS

                                Birmingham Post

                           November 20, 2001, Tuesday

BLUNKETT ATTACKED OVER ANTI-TERROR LAW David Blunkett: Under fire

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 289 words


Home Secretary David Blunkett last night faced cross-party criticism for his
controversial emergency anti-terrorism laws as MPs started debating his plans to
detain suspects without trial.

The Commons began the first of three days' debate on the Bill allowing a British
opt-out from the European Convention on Human Rights, with both Labour and Tory
backbenchers sniping at Mr Blunkett.

Earlier yesterday, the Commons Home Affairs Select Committee in a special report
said: 'We question whether it is appropriate for this Bill to be passed through
the House of Commons in exactly two weeks, with only three days of debate on the
floor of the House.

'A Bill of this length with major implications for civil liberties should not be
passed by the House in such a short period and with so little time for detailed
examination in committee.'

The Bill later cleared its first hurdle. It was given a second reading by 458
votes to five, majority 453.

The Conservatives have pledged to support the Bill, but shadow Home Secretary
Oliver Letwin said Tories would seek to amend it to make it 'more balanced'.

Mr Blunkett told MPs the only other alternatives were for suspects to be
released back to a country where they might be tortured or killed or to let them
roam free in the UK.

He said the ten weeks the Government had taken to come up with the emergency
powers Bill proved it was a measured response to the events of September 11.

British nationals who fought for Taliban forces inside Afghanistan face
immediate arrest, possibly for treason, as they arrive back in Britain, it was
learned yesterday.

Intelligence sources believe that about 200 UK passport holders may have joined
in the conflict.

LOAD-DATE: November 20, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

               Copyright 2001 Midland Independent Newspapers plc

                              95 of 251 DOCUMENTS

                                THE BRISTOL POST

                               November 20, 2001

MP Jean attacks new bill on terror;
 WAR ON TERROR

BYLINE: ROB MERRICK Parliamentary correspondent

SECTION: News, Pg.5

LENGTH: 208 words


PLANS to lock up terror suspects without trial have been attacked by a committee
led by Bristol East MP Jean Corston.

The Labour MP chairs parliament's human rights committee, which has produced a
report heavily criticising the Government's controversial antiterrorism bill.

The bill - which was debated by MPs last night Mon - would give ministers the
right to detain Islamic fundamentalist militants without trial for six months.

Cases would be heard by an immigration appeals commission, with evidence given
behind closed doors if deemed necessary on security grounds.

But Ms Corston's committee has concluded that Home Secretary David Blunkett has
failed to prove there is truly an emergency justifying such draconian powers.

Its report warns that immigrants would be more at risk of detention and of a
dangerous increase in police powers to search and photograph suspects.

The committee urges MPs to consider whether individual rights will be adequately
protected before they finish debating the bill on Thursday.

Ms Corston said: "The measures require a big leap of faith. We are saying there
need to be fair safeguards in the bill, and I am encouraged the Home Secretary
has said he will reconsider that."

LOAD-DATE: November 21, 2001

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                      Copyright 2001 Bristol United Press

                              96 of 251 DOCUMENTS

                            Derby Evening Telegraph

                               November 20, 2001

Jet-powered liner could be R-R boost; Terror attacks could herald ship re-think

BYLINE: David Clensy

SECTION: GENERAL; Pg. 17

LENGTH: 443 words


A REVOLUTIONARY new jet-powered ship could prove a boost for beleaguered
Rolls-Royce.  Two years ago R-R announced a $ 1bn (GBP 645m) agreement with ship
builders FastShip Atlantic to provide engines for a fleet of high-speed cargo
ships. Part of the engines will be produced in Derby.

It was the largest single order for marine engines in the company's history and
billed as a way of transforming transatlantic trade.

Yesterday, Bill O'Sullivan, spokesman for R-R, said there was a possibility that
the company could be called upon to produce engines for jet-powered passenger
ships in light of the events of September 11.

After the World Trade Centre terrorist attacks and last week's New York air
disaster, it is thought that many more travellers will be nervous of flying in
or out of America.

Mr O'Sullivan said: "If FastShip do feel that the market has changed
sufficiently since September 11 to warrant looking at the possibility of
jet-powered passenger ships, it is certainly something that we would be keen to
talk to them about." FastShip has not yet announced the viability of its ships
being used for passenger liners.

Councillor Sara Bolton, Derby City Council member for economic prosperity, said
she would welcome more orders for R-R in light of the recent announcement that
1,900 workers at Derby and Hucknall are set to lose their jobs.

She added: "At the end of the day, we would welcome any work coming to Derby,
especially in the current economic climate." The 750ft cargo ship, the length of
three jumbo jets, will boast a top speed of 40 knots (46mph). The current
fastest transatlantic cruise ship, the QE2, is capable of just 32.5 knots -
crossing the ocean in a week.

Working effectively as a hovercraft, it will be propelled through the water by
means of six water jets and will be capable of crossing the Atlantic in about 90
hours.

Construction of the revolutionary vessel is expected to begin at a Pennsylvania
shipyard early next year.

R-R, which already powers 30 navies around the world, agreed to provide 25
marine versions of its Trent aero-engine to propel the futuristic high-speed
ships.

Using five engines in each vessel, the initial order was planned to furnish four
of the ships, with a further five engines being purchased as spares.

Mr O'Sullivan said: "We are now at a stage where we are just awaiting the
details of the final timescale for the project." Last week, R-R won a Ministry
of Defence contract worth GBP 100m to keep the Royal Navy nuclear submarine
flotilla safe and in service.

The company will provide a total powerplant support package over the next three
years.


LOAD-DATE: May 1, 2002

LANGUAGE: English

                     Copyright 2001 Derby Evening Telegraph

                              97 of 251 DOCUMENTS



                                   The Mirror

                           November 20, 2001, Tuesday

ZOO ELEPHANT ATTACK PUT ME IN WHEELCHAIR;
 TOURIST'S TERROR ON 'JINXED' TRIP

BYLINE: Ryan Parry

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 21

LENGTH: 361 words

HIGHLIGHT: MURDERED: Dad Gordon; RAMPAGE: An elephant went berserk at zoo;
TRAPPED: Louise fell into the beast's path


A TERRIFIED Scots holidaymaker narrowly escaped being crushed to death by a
rampaging elephant in Thailand.

Louise Fletcher, 26, whose dad was murdered while on holiday in the same country
last year, was thrown from the beast as it attacked a trainer.

As she fell to the ground, the elephant's huge foot came crashing down on her
leg, leaving her with horrendous injuries. She is now desperately waiting to be
flown back to Britain for treatment.

Last night she bravely spoke of her horror when the elephant went berserk at
Phuket Zoo.

Louise, from St Andrews, Fife, had been sitting on the elephant, posing as her
boyfriend filmed her with a video camera.

She said: "Suddenly the elephant grabbed a trainer with its trunk and threw him
into the air.

"When it stood up to attack him again, I fell off the side right into the path
of it's legs.

"The only thing I can remember is seeing the sole of the elephant's foot come
down on my leg.

"Another foot closer and it would have been my head."

Tourist Andrea Taylor, 20, from Wigan, Lancashire, was gored to death by an
elephant last year as she watched it perform at tropical gardens in Pattaya,
south east of Bangkok.

Louise was luckier. Her boyfriend Forbes Taylor, 28, from Tayport, Fife, managed
to reach her in time and rushed her to hospital.

She has had four skin graft operations below the knee of her left leg and also
had a steel pin placed inside the bone.

She added: "I will make a complete recovery but I'll be scarred for life.

"I've seen my leg for the first time today and it's horrible. Half the skin
below the knee is gone."

Louise's dad Gordon was murdered in Pattaya last March.

Thai police failed to find any suspects and have since closed the case.

Louise's old school pal, Peter Black, also died in Pattaya after falling off a
hotel balcony.

Last night Louise said: "I should never have come here. This place has a
terrible jinx for me."

Zoo boss Panchanok Hiran admitted yesterday: "We are so sorry about this
accident. Normally we have a seat on the elephant's back, but on that day the
staff forgot."

r.parry@mirror.co.uk

LOAD-DATE: November 20, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                            Copyright 2001 MGN Ltd.

                              98 of 251 DOCUMENTS

                                South Wales Echo

                           November 20, 2001, Tuesday

MPS IN ATTACK ON ANTI-TERRORIST BILL

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 354 words


THE Government's emergency anti-terrorist package allowing internment without
trial of overseas terrorist suspects has cleared its first Commons hurdle,
despite bitter criticism on all sides.

Just four Labour MPs and three Tories - including the two tellers - voted
against the AntiTerrorism, Crime and Security Bill late last night as it secured
a second reading with a massive majority of 453.

But the ease of the Government's victory did not reflect the depth of anger
across the House at the decision to push the Bill through all its Commons stages
in just three days.

One of the rebels, Labour leftwinger Brian Sedgemore, branded the Bill "a ragbag
of the most coercive measures that the best mandarin minds from the Home Office
can produce".

"Not since the panic and hysteria that overcame the British establishment in the
aftermath of the French Revolution has this House seen such Draconian
legislation, " he said.

Tory ex-Cabinet minister John Gummer branded parts of the Bill "objectionable
and wholly wrong" while his former government colleague Douglas Hogg said the
timetabling was "offensive, indeed a scandal".

It was not just habitual critics of the Government who voiced concern. The
chairman of the Parliamentary Labour Party, Jean Corston, said the Bill entailed
"a great leap of faith".

"Emergency legislation passed in haste can often haunt us, " she said.

Shadow Home Secretary Oliver Letwin said the Tories would "trust" Mr Blunkett
and support the Bill, but only because of "exceptional circumstances". He said
his party had "severest reservations" over the part of the Bill which created a
new offence of incitement to religious hatred.

Home Secretary David Blunkett denied that MPs had been given too little time to
consider what he described as a "rational, reasonable and proportionate"
response to the September 11 atrocities.

The Labour MPs who voted against the bill were Mr Sedgemore, Jeremy Corbyn,
George Galloway and Paul Marsden. On the Tory side, Mr Gummer voted against the
bill while Mr Hogg and Richard Shepherd were the tellers for the "noes".

LOAD-DATE: November 22, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: NEW BILL David Blunkett's Bill secured a second reading.

                    Copyright 2001 Western Mail and Echo Ltd

                              99 of 251 DOCUMENTS

                               Belfast Telegraph

                               November 21, 2001

Blair under attack for terrorist 'distinctions'

LENGTH: 251 words


TONY Blair today came under a joint attack for making distinctions between
terrorist groups in Northern Ireland and Osama bin Laden's al Qaida network.

Conservative leader Iain Duncan Smith and Ulster Unionist leader David Trimble
urged the Government to rethink its new anti-terror legislation and end the
distinction between domestic and international terrorists.

Writing in the Daily Telegraph, they said there was no difference between the
hijacked airliner attacks on New York and Washington and atrocities such as the
Omagh bombing in 1998.

MPs will debate the detail of the Government's Anti-Terrorism Crime and Security
Bill as it reaches its committee stage in the Commons today.

"It follows that there should be no question of recognising, or creating in law,
different categories of terrorist organisation," Mr Duncan Smith and Mr Trimble
wrote.

"Yet this is precisely what this Government has done.

"We support the move to introduce new powers - as we would any effective anti
-terrorist measures.

"Yet these measures should apply equally to all those suspected of involvement
in terrorism. That should include organisations in the United Kingdom."

The pair added: "By creating different classes of terrorist, the danger is that
all terrorists will be encouraged to believe that, if only they persist, sooner
or later they will succeed.

"That is why, at this late stage, we urge the Government to think again and end
the anomaly that it has created."


LOAD-DATE: November 21, 2001

LANGUAGE: English

TYPE: Paper

                Copyright 2001 Belfast Telegraph Newspapers Ltd.

                              100 of 251 DOCUMENTS

                                  The Express

                               November 21, 2001

THIS IS AMERICA; NO WONDER THE CIA DIDN'T ANTICIPATE THE TERRORIST ATTACKS

BYLINE: DURMOT PURGAVIE

SECTION: COLUMNS; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 64 words


NO wonder the CIA didn't anticipate the terrorist attacks. ABC's Ted Koppel
reports that, having lamented the TV networks' cutbacks on foreign coverage to
CIA officials last year, one replied: "You don't know how uneasy that makes me.
We've been cutting back on foreign operatives because we believe anything we
need to know happening overseas, we can get from the networks."

LOAD-DATE: November 21, 2001

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Newspaper

                       Copyright 2001 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS

                              101 of 251 DOCUMENTS

                     Belfast News Letter (Northern Ireland)

                          November 22, 2001, Thursday

FEAR OF FLYING SOARS AFTER US TERROR ATTACKS;
 PILOTS AMONG THOSE SEEKING TREATMENT

BYLINE: Jackie Mckeown

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 414 words

HIGHLIGHT: Gilchrist has seen a huge increase in those seeking help since;
September 11; IN DEMAND: hypnotherapist Alan


A TOP Ulster hypnotherapist has reported a huge increase in the number of people
seeking help to deal with flying phobias since the September 11 atrocities.

And Alan Gilchrist says that pilots feature prominently among his burgeoning
list of new clients as they struggle to deal with the added stress of their jobs
since the terrorist attacks.

"We are getting a tremendous amount of people coming through the door with fear
of flying since September 11," said Alan.

"But what's unusual is that we are now getting pilots asking for help too.

"The atrocities are having huge knock-on effects and pilots are worried about
losing their jobs, while some are having panic attacks now when they get on the
planes."

Alan, who has been practising at the Belfast Hypnotherapy Centre for the past 15
years, says he has been amazed at the repercussions of the outrages.

He said: "Even the travel agents are coming in for help now.

"We're getting everyone right down to the catering workers who supply food for
the aircraft.

"And I've even treated one woman recently for fear of flying whose husband
actually designs airplanes."

Alan says he's not surprised that people develop fear of flying because he says
the whole experience is geared towards death.

He said: "Whenever the airline passenger decides to go on a journey, from the
time that he or she books the flight a lot of subliminal factors start to
emerge.

"Whenever the person books their flight they are asked to take out insurance -
just in case!

"On arrival at the airport the first building they enter is the TERMINAL! Then
they enter the departure lounge and await their final call for their final
destination.

"As the aircraft is prepared for take off the stewardesses then instruct the
passengers in all the safety procedures - just in case!

"Little wonder people can easily become phobic about flying even before the
plane takes off - and yet these procedures are necessary!"

Alan says that most people are usually able to board a plane after four or five
sessions of hypnotherapy which helps them to overcome their fear by implanting
positive suggestions into the subconscious.

Audio tapes are also supplied to reinforce the lessons on how to relax, not only
on the aircraft, but also on the run-up to the flight.

Alan added: "It really only is a state of relaxation but it helps to get them
sitting on a plane.

"They might not like it, but at least they'll do it!"

LOAD-DATE: November 22, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

                   Copyright 2001 Century Newspapers Limited

                              102 of 251 DOCUMENTS

                         The Evening Standard (London)

                               November 22, 2001

Business: All Terror attacks bring down Tokyo insurer: Market Report

BYLINE: Ray Heath

SECTION: Pg. 46

LENGTH: 569 words


INSURANCE shares were hammered in Tokyo today after losses arising from the
terrorist attacks on the US on 11 September forced Taisei Fire & Marine to file
for protection from creditors.

Japan's 12th largest insurer said that its liabilities exceeded assets by more
than 40 billion yen (GBP 229 million), and a spokesman revealed that claimsfrom
attacks on the World Trade Center would total more than 70 billion yen.

Shares in Taisei were suspended but prices of other insurers plunged as shocked
investors dumped stocks on fears

that other companies would also be hard hit by claims from the outrages.

The sector index fell by more than 4%, but companies linked to the bankrupt
insurer were more savagely dealt with.

Yasuda Fire, which had planned a merger with Taisei, crashed more than 8%.

Nissan Fire, which would have been a third party to the merger, lost 13%.

Taisei's failure cast a pall of gloom over the rest of the market, but a late
burst of buying eventually lifted the Nikkei 225 by 35.74 points to 10,696.82 at
the close.

Recently strong exporters also fell as profit-taking was accelerated by the
unexpectedly big fall of 33% in Japan's trade surplus in October, which
reflected weakening global sales.

Other markets in Asia were quietly mixed as investors stood back ahead of
today's US Thanksgiving holiday.

Recovering telecoms stocks reversed yesterday's fall in Hong Kong, where the
Hang Seng index added 31.85 points to 11,205.77. China Unicom, the mainland's
second largest mobile phone provider, led the rally with a gain of more than 1%
on reports that it was about link up with a big US partner to widen its wireless
network.

A sell signal on HSBC Holdings from brokers

CLSA Emerging Markets was ignored as the shares added 75 cents to HK$ 94.

CLSA said that the 35% rally from HSBC's mid-September low had now been
overdone, and there would be opportunities to buy again at around HK$ 80.

The recent wave of liquidity that has powered Taiwan stocks up by more than 30%
since September slowed today ahead of key elections at the beginning of next
month, and the Weighted Average slipped back 59.59 points to 4473.78.

The fall was led by Taiwan Semiconductor which lost more than 2% on
profit-taking.

Bank shares provided a modest advance of 3.48 points to 619.93 on South Korea's
Kospi, as rumours of mergers took prices up by as much as 4%.

Trading in Singapore was brightened by local drinks group Yeo Hiap Seng after a
deal to distribute Virgin Colour products lifted the stock by 5%. As blue-chips
wiltedunder profit taking, the Straits Times index drifted down 14.67 points to
1450.53.

Resource stocks continued to dominate the action in Sydney as yesterday's
rejection of US aluminium group Alcoa's approaches to mining giant WMC continued
to weaken most stocks in the sector.

The All Ordinaries index closed 10.10 points down at 3626.4 despite a rally of
more than 3% in WMC shares, which had tumbled 10% on the bid rejection.

Stronger banks and other blue-chips took Thailand's SET index up 2.92 points to
294.13. Indonesia's Jakarta Composite edged down 1.47 points to 380.63, while
Malaysian markets were closed in mourning for the king's death.

_Prices and indices in this section are supplied from various sources and
calculated at different times and may not always match those listed in the
tables.


LOAD-DATE: November 23, 2001

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                   Copyright 2001 Associated Newspapers Ltd.

                              103 of 251 DOCUMENTS

                            The Independent (London)

                          November 22, 2001, Thursday

CLERIC 'LINKED TO AL-QA'IDA' ATTACKS ANTI-TERROR LAW

BYLINE: Arifa Akbar Abu Qatada: Prepared to face his accusers in court

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 488 words


BRITISH SECURITY sources have said they are confident that Abu Qatada, who is
accused by the Spanish authorities of being the spiritual head of the al-Qa'ida
terrorist network in Europe, will be interned within a month once new anti
-terrorism legislation comes into effect.

But yesterday Mr Qatada, a Palestinian living in London, insisted he was
innocent. He said he was not afraid of being detained and condemned the Home
Secretary David Blunkett's anti-terrorism Bill as a "law against law".

Speaking from his home in Acton, Mr Qatada, 40, said the new laws threatened to
destroy civil liberties and insisted he was prepared to face his accusers in
court.

Mr Qatada, who has four children, said he was simply a cleric who spent his time
on such matters as offering marital advice, not masterminding global terrorism.

But security sources claimed they had a convincing case for internment.

A security officer said: "We're waiting to see the fine points of the new law
but are confident that there'll be enough in there to detain him. There seem to
be grounds to get him on suspicion to commit or support acts of terror in
another country. The Spanish findings certainly provide a compelling excuse to
move in on him."

Mr Qatada, who has been given a life sentence in absentia for bombings in
Jordan, is alleged to have a connection with at least nine al-Qa'ida agents and
he is wanted for questioning by Spanish investigators. Eighteen videos made by
him were found in a Hamburg flat used by Mohammed Atta, the ring-leader of the
11 September hijackers.

Speaking though an interpreter at his home, he denied accusations by the Spanish
judge Baltasar Garzon that he was connected with Imad Eddin Barakac Yarkas, a
cleric in Madrid, who may have helped to plot the US attacks with Mohammed Atta.
He said "Spanish law is not very good" and he could not recall having met Mr
Yarkas when he was shown a picture of him. "I meet all kinds of people. I can't
remember everyone. I don't know who this is," he said.

But he condoned those British Muslims who are fighting with the Taliban as men
who "defended their creed" and criticised the Allies' foreign policy as
"meddlesome".

"As the old people say where I come from, if you see two fishes fighting in the
sea, you know the British are behind it," he said. Mr Qatada denied, as he had
in previous interviews, having pounds 180,000 in a bank account which Treasury
investigators froze after he was named as being on a list of 38 individuals
suspecting of backing Osama bin Laden's terror network.

"Do I look like a demon? Look, I am a religious scholar, I read books," he said,
pointing to the hundreds of Arabic books in the ground-floor library of his
semi-detached house. "I am just a cleric for Islam. People talk to me from all
over the world. My phone number is worldwide spread, people call me all the time
about Islamic matters."

LOAD-DATE: November 22, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 2001 Independent Print Ltd

                              104 of 251 DOCUMENTS

                            The Independent (London)

                          November 22, 2001, Thursday

CAMPAIGN AGAINST TERRORISM: DEATH TOLL FROM ATTACKS ON TOWERS REDUCED TO 3,900

BYLINE: Leyla Linton

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 437 words


AUTHORITIES IN New York have conceded that the numbers of dead and missing from
the World Trade Centre attacks have fallen way below initial estimates and may
continue to come down as initial duplications and errors are corrected.

The city's official count stood at 3,899 yesterday, of whom 624 have been
identified, with the rest - 3,275 names - remaining on the missing persons list.
Some media organisations suggest the final tally of those who perished in New
York on 11 September will be 2,950.

While the scale of human loss on that Tuesday remains overwhelming, the
discrepancies between the deaths tolls then and now are striking. The numbers
issued by the city peaked on 24 September, when officials said they believed
6,275 people had perished in the attacks on the twin towers.

That those high figures were unlikely to be borne out by history has been
evident for some time. The New York Times, the Associated Press and USA Today
all reported several weeks ago that their own surveys suggested tallies just
below 3,000. Even so, those early death tolls became lodged in people's minds
and have been consistently used ever since in public debate and political
discourse.

Colin Powell, the Secretary of State, has continued to cite the loss of 5,000
Americans on 11 September in recent policy speeches. And in everyday
conversations still, that same figure tends to be the one used.

The older numbers also appear regularly in newspaper columns and on television
and radio talk shows. Don Imus, who hosts an irreverent morning talk show on
radio and television in New York, even suggested last Saturday that 6,000 people
had died at the World Trade Centre.

Officials show no sign of embarrassment over the changes in the mathematics,
saying that the numbers were inflated at first because of many understandable
reasons.

They said that lots of people were simply reported missing several times over
and it took time to correct duplications. Some women were reported using married
and maiden names.

But the process of whittling down the final numbers is not over. Foreign
consulates tended to overestimate the numbers of nationals they lost and are now
reporting lower numbers.

"Thank God so many of these people are alive and well," Charles Campisi, the
chief of the New York Police Department's Internal Affairs Bureau, told The New
York Times.

The Associated Press tally of people confirmed dead and those reported dead or
missing at the World Trade Centre stood at 2,772 yesterday. The deaths in the
crashes at the Pentagon and in Pennsylvania bring the toll to 2,996.

LOAD-DATE: November 22, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 2001 Independent Print Ltd

                              105 of 251 DOCUMENTS

                            The Independent (London)

                          November 22, 2001, Thursday

CAMPAIGN AGAINST TERRORISM: DEATH TOLL FROM NEW YORK ATTACK REDUCED TO 3,900

BYLINE: Leyla Linton Estimates of the numbers of dead and missing at the World
Trade; Centre have been falling for several weeks

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 460 words


AUTHORITIES IN New York have conceded that the numbers of dead and missing from
the World Trade Centre attacks have fallen way below initial estimates and may
continue to come down as initial duplications and errors are corrected.

The city's official count stood at 3,899 yesterday, of which 624 people have
been identified, with the rest - 3,275 names - remaining on the missing persons
list. Some media organisations suggest, however, that the final tally of those
who perished in New York on 11 September will be no higher than 2,950.

While the scale of human loss on that Tuesday remains overwhelming, the
discrepancies between the deaths tolls then and now are striking. The numbers
issued by the city peaked on 24 September, when officials said they believed
that as many as 6,275 people had perished in the attacks on the twin towers.

That those high figures were unlikely to be borne out by history has been
evident for some time. The New York Times, the Associated Press and USA Today
all reported several weeks ago that their own surveys suggested tallies just
below 3,000. Even so, those early death tolls became lodged in people's minds
and have been consistently used ever since in public debate and political
discourse.

Even Colin Powell, the Secretary of State, has continued to cite the loss of
5,000 Americans on 11 September in recent policy speeches. And in everyday
conversations still, whether on the bus or over dinner, that same figure tends
to be the one that is used.

The older numbers also appear regularly in newspaper columns and on television
and radio talk shows. Don Imus, who hosts an irreverent morning talk show on
radio and television in New York, even suggested last Saturday that 6,000 people
had died at the World Trade Centre.

Officials show no sign of embarrassment over the changes in the mathematics,
however, saying that the numbers were inflated at first because of many
understandable reasons. They said that lots of people were simply reported
missing several times over and it took time to correct duplications. Some women
were reported using their married and maiden names.

But the process of whittling down the final numbers is not over. Foreign
consulates tended to overestimate the numbers of nationals they lost in the
tragedy and are now reporting more conservative numbers.

"Thank God so many of these people are alive and well," Charles Campisi, the
chief of the New York Police Department's Internal Affairs Bureau, told The New
York Times.

The Associated Press tally of people confirmed dead and those reported dead or
missing at the World Trade Centre stood at 2,772 yesterday. The deaths in the
crashes at the Pentagon and in Pennsylvania bring the toll to 2,996.

LOAD-DATE: November 22, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 2001 Independent Print Ltd

                              106 of 251 DOCUMENTS

                     Belfast News Letter (Northern Ireland)

                           November 23, 2001, Friday

PARTIES UNITE TO PAY TRIBUTE TO MURDERED POLITICIANS;
 STORMONT MEMORIAL PLANNED FOR SENATORS KILLED IN TERROR ATTACKS

BYLINE: Nicola Mathers

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 210 words

HIGHLIGHT: MURDERED: Senator Paddy Wilson, left, with former SDLP chief Gerry;
Fitt


THE Northern Ireland Assembly is to honour the memories of two murdered Stormont
senators, Paddy Wilson and Jack Barnhill. Their names will be inscribed on the
wall outside the old Senate Chamber in the Stormont building.

Senator Barnhill was shot dead by the Official IRA in 1971, while Senator Wilson
was stabbed to death by UDA man John White, in 1973, now a leading figure in the
UDP.

The decision to honour the senators was made by the cross party Stormont
Commission yesterday. After consultation with the victims' families, it was
agreed that an inscription bearing the names of the two senators would appear in
a rotunda outside the old Senate Chamber.

The inscription will be unveiled on December 12, the 30th anniversary of Senator
Barnhill's murder.

He had been a member of Stormont's Upper Chamber for almost 10 years when he was
shot dead in his home at Brickfield House in Strabane.

Paddy Wilson, a prominent member of the SDLP, was murdered on June 26, 1973,
along with a friend, Irene Andrews, a Protestant woman.

Senator Wilson was stabbed 32 times while his friend was stabbed 19 times. John
White served 14 years for the murders.

The victims' families are expected to attend the unveiling ceremony at Stormont.

LOAD-DATE: November 23, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

                   Copyright 2001 Century Newspapers Limited

                              107 of 251 DOCUMENTS

                                THE BRISTOL POST

                               November 23, 2001

SURRENDER TALKS COLLAPSE;
 WAR ON TERROR - Fears of bloodbath as Alliance attacks last stronghold

SECTION: News, Pg.5

LENGTH: 536 words


THE Taliban was last night facing the threat of losing its final stronghold in
northern Afghanistan as the Northern Alliance unleashed a major assault on the
city of Kunduz.

Reports from the ground were conflicting, but it appeared that talks between
Alliance commanders and the Taliban defenders aimed at securing its surrender
had broken down, despite an earlier apparent agreement.

The news prompted fears of a bloody last stand by some 3,000 foreign fighters
holed up inside the city with an estimated Taliban garrison of 15,000 men.

Northern Alliance commanders have repeatedly warned that they will show no mercy
to the foreigners - mainly Arabs, Pakistanis and Chechens - who are deeply hated
by the Afghans.

The apparent failure of surrender talks prompted concern in Western capitals
that their Northern Alliance allies could be about to slaughter thousands of the
enemy.

Tony Blair's official spokesman said the Government hoped that a "bloodbath"
could be avoided.

"What we have made clear all along is that the Northern Alliance and others
should behave in a way that avoids atrocities, " the spokesman said.

"Thankfully, so far the predictions of bloodbaths elsewhere have not been
realised.We hope that remains the case."

At the same time, he said that the fighters, many loyal to Osama bin Laden's al
Qaida organisation, must not be allowed to walk away "only to materialise in a
new place in some other form".

He added: "Normal international practice is that people become prisoners so they
cannot just walk away."

Foreign Secretary Jack Straw, holding talks in the Iranian capital Tehran with
the alliance's foreign minister Abdullah Abdullah, went out of his way to praise
the "very responsible way" in which its forces had so far behaved.

Nevertheless, US bombers continued to pound Taliban positions around the city as
hundreds of Northern Alliance troops poured into the area for the offensive.

About 200 Afghan Taliban fighters were reported to have escaped from the city
and managed to surrender but the majority remained firmly entrenched inside.

Earlier, Dr Abdullah refused to be drawn on whether the Northern Alliance would
accept the deployment ofBritish and other coalition troops as part of a
stabilisation force.

"If we are consulted about it, we will consider it, " he said following his
meeting with Mr Straw.

But at talks later, Iranian Foreign Minister Kamal Kharrazi warned Mr Straw that
the Afghans were unlikely to accept willingly any large-scale foreign military
presence on their soil.

"This is a very sensitive issue to Afghans, " he said.

Mr Straw acknowledged any decision on the deployment of a stabilisation force -
including up to 6,000 British troops currently on standby - would now have to
wait until next week's talks between the various Afghan factions convened in
Bonn by United Nations Special Envoy Lakhdar Brahimi.

"Exactly what their needs are in terms of longer-term peacekeeping and
stabilisation from outside remains to be seen, " he said.

"We won't really be able to get a fix on that until the conclusion of the first
stage of the Brahimi meeting, which will be some time next week."

LOAD-DATE: November 28, 2001

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                      Copyright 2001 Bristol United Press

                              108 of 251 DOCUMENTS

                     The Times Higher Education Supplement

                               November 23, 2001

Terrorist Attacks Fail To Deter Overseas Students In Us

BYLINE: Jon Marcus in Boston

SECTION: No.1514; Pg.9

LENGTH: 251 words


US educators do not expect a fall in international student exchanges because of
this autumn's terrorist attacks.

University study-abroad officials surveyed by the Institute for International
Education reported that only "a very few" of the international students at
American universities had left the United States. And, despite a threatened
anti-terrorism crackdown on international student visas, the number of
international students registering for the admission test to enter US
universities in autumn 2002 was up 15 per cent.

International education is a considerable market. Foreign students poured $ 11
billion (Pounds 7.7 billion) into the American economy, the institute reported.

A record 547,867 international students enrolled at US schools last year,
according to figures released by the institute, up 6.4 per cent on the previous
year -the largest increase since 1980.

The news was also good for other nations that enrolled large numbers of
Americans. Some 97 per cent of American university officials surveyed said that
most students were proceeding with their plans to study abroad.

"The lasting ties that Americans make during their international studies are
important to our country in times of conflict as well as in times of peace,"
said Allan Goodman, the institute's president. "This is a time when our world
needs more international exchange, not less. The terrorists wish to make us
close our minds, our borders and our markets to the rest of the world."


LOAD-DATE: November 24, 2001

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Magazine

                      Copyright 2001 TSL Education Limited

                              109 of 251 DOCUMENTS

                              Western Daily Press

                               November 23, 2001

Widow of 87 relives sex attack terror

SECTION: News :999 :Sex crime, Pg.7

LENGTH: 180 words


AN 87-year-old woman who was sexually assaulted in her home yesterday waived her
right to anonymity saying: "I want people to know who I am and what this man has
done."

Widow Frances Doran was attacked in her ground floor council flat in Sunderland
as she lay in bed about 11pm on Friday.

The pensioner, who lives alone, issued a statement from the hospital where she
is recovering saying: "I don't want anyone else to have to go through it."

The victim's daughter Denise Timney said the family had been buoyed by the cards
and messages of support they had received.

Mrs Timney added: "My mother is very frail but she is fighting back and every
day she is feeling a bit better."

Mrs Doran, a mother of two from the Grangetown district of Sunderland was so
terrified after the physical and sexual attack that she wrapped herself in her
bedclothes and only raised the alarm next morning when her home help arrived.
Police are looking for a teenager seen knocking on the window of a flat opposite
the victim's at around 5.30pm and also a man in his late 20s.

LOAD-DATE: November 26, 2001

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                      Copyright 2001 Bristol United Press

                              110 of 251 DOCUMENTS

                            Daily Post (North Wales)

                          November 24, 2001, Saturday

FEARS FOR 1,200 AEROSPACE JOBS;
 AIRBUS LOOKS TO CUT COSTS FOLLOWING US TERROR ATTACKS

BYLINE: David Jones And Stephen Rylance

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 1,5

LENGTH: 645 words


THE North West was last night bracing itself for hundreds of job losses at one
of the region's biggest factories.

Unions at the Airbus wingmaking factory in Broughton on the Cheshire border have
been warned up to 1,200 jobs could be lost as a result of the US terror attacks
unless costs are cut.

It is the second employment body-blow for the area as yesterday sweet
manufacturer Taveners revealed it was shedding 80 jobs at its Liverpool site.

Despite the news, one member of the North West Development Association said the
air industry could survive but that it required the urgent help of the
Government.

Last night, one worker at Airbus claimed the company would be offering voluntary
redundancy packages.

The firm has refused to speculate on the number of possible job losses but it is
believed up to 400 could be axed by the end of the year - at a factory which
employs 5,000 people.

Bosses described the 1,200 figure as a "worst-case scenario" if they failed to
react to the tougher trading conditions. Savings are being made in the hope
cutbacks will be far less severe.

Overtime has been axed and a recruitment freeze has prevented the filling of
almost 1,000 new posts which had been expected as the plant gears up for work on
the new giant A380 Airbus.

A company spokesman said yesterday:

"We have made no announcement about redundancies but we have also made it clear
that lay-offs cannot be ruled out.

"What we are doing is negotiating with unions and briefing our employees on the
state of the business following September 11 and working with them to see how we
can mitigate the effects of that downturn in business.

"We have taken measures to stop overtime and to halt external hiring and at the
moment we are working with the unions to look at increasing the flexibility of
our working and shift patterns.

"The airline industry will pick up, given time. We know that and that is why we
want to protect jobs so that we do not lose our skills base." AEEU union
regional organiser Alwyn Rowlands said a series of meetings was being held with
management at Broughton to find the best way round the present difficulties.

He said: "We are doing all within our power to minimise job losses, but at this
stage I cannot confirm any figures."

Broughton had been due to produce 400 sets of wings for the family of Airbus
jets next year - but that has been scaled back to 300-320 sets.

The company confirmed work on the A380 wing factory, a pounds 100m development
at the site, was continuing as planned. Airbus president Noel Forgeard warned a
fortnight ago the company would have to slash up to pounds 370m from its costs
next year to overcome the world aviation crisis. He said the aim was to cut
production rates without affecting unit costs.

Mr Forgeard said at the time the A380 project was not in doubt and the giant
plane, the biggest civilian jet in the world with up to 555 seats, would fly in
2006 as planned.

A loss of more than 1,000 jobs at Broughton would be a disaster for the local
economy and could have massive political fall-out.

The A380 project has attracted pounds 530m in launch aid from the British
Government. The new factory at Broughton attracted a funding package worth
almost pounds 20m.

The NWDA has arranged an emergency meeting with Trade Secretary Patricia Hewitt
on December 10 to ask the Government for extra support to aid the sector's short
term recovery.

Mr Mendoros said: "We are establishing an innovation centre for aerospace
excellence which has pounds 20m behind it from the NWDA. This will see all eight
universities in the North West developing activities to support aerospace and
manufacturing.

"In addition, we are trying to change the status of shop contractors so that
they can become vendors and have their own intellectual property rights."

LOAD-DATE: November 24, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

               Copyright 2001 The Liverpool Daily Post & Echo Ltd

                              111 of 251 DOCUMENTS

                                 Liverpool Echo

                          November 24, 2001, Saturday

TOWNS UNITED BY TERROR ATTACKS FORGE FRESH LINKS

BYLINE: Thomas Martin

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 221 words


CULTURAL links are being forged between two towns rocked by acts of terrorism.

Warrington, devastated by an IRA bomb blast which left two young boys dead in
1993, is staging a special peace and reconciliation concert with civic leaders
from the Northern Ireland town of Omagh, which was ravaged by a terrorist bomb
in 1998.

It is hoped it will be the first of many bi-annual visits between the two towns
brought together in the name of peace.

Among the guests at the December 15 event being staged at the Parr Hall in
Warrington, will be peace campaigner Colin Parry and his wife Wendy, whose 12
-year-old son died alongside three-year-old Johnathan Ball.

He said: "Anything which strengthens long-term links is a good idea.

"Both towns have suffered tragedy and building bridges is something groups in
Warrington have been doing for a long time. It is at the heart of everything we
do."

Visitors from Omagh will be hosted at the Young Person's Centre, built as a
living memorial to Tim and Johnathan.

The event is being organised by The Bridge, one of a number of peace groups set
up in Warrington in the wake of the atrocity.

Chairman, local Methodist Minister Rev Stephen Kingsnorth said:

"Our group is committed to reconciliation."

Tickets are available at the Parr Hall box office.

LOAD-DATE: November 24, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: BUILDING LINKS: Warrington Peace campaigner Colin Parry

               Copyright 2001 The Liverpool Daily Post & Echo Ltd

                              112 of 251 DOCUMENTS



                                   The Mirror

                          November 24, 2001, Saturday

WAR ON TERROR: TROOPS STAY OUT: 'BLOOD' ATTACKER

BYLINE: James Lyons

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 122 words


FOREIGN Office Minister Ben Bradshaw was last night sprayed with fake blood by
an anti-war protester.

He was said to be "shaken" but unhurt by the attack at a public meeting on the
Afghan campaign.

The man was led away by police after the incident in Mr Bradshaw's Exeter
constituency.

An organiser said the incident raised questions about the lack of Special Branch
protection given to junior ministers at a time of war. The South Street Baptist
Church meeting had been underway for 30 minutes when the, who was man sat near
Mr Bradshaw, challenged him, said organiser Ian Martin.

A witness said: "He was a little shocked, but then carried on.

"I am sure it went through his head that it had been a gun."

LOAD-DATE: November 24, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                            Copyright 2001 MGN Ltd.

                              113 of 251 DOCUMENTS

                     Belfast News Letter (Northern Ireland)

                           November 26, 2001, Monday

WAR ON TERROR: ATTACKER MAY FACE COURT CASE

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 97 words


A MAN who threw theatrical blood at junior Foreign Office minister Ben Bradshaw
during a question and answer session on the Afghan war may face prosecution.

Mr Bradshaw was splattered with the red liquid while speaking in his Exeter
constit- uency on Friday night.

Police arrested a man at the meeting, organised by Exeter Quakers, and released
him without charge.

Mr Bradshaw said he did not wish to make any complaints about the incident.

Yesterday, Exeter Quakers' official Ian Martin said the group was considering
bringing a prosecution against the man.

LOAD-DATE: November 26, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

                   Copyright 2001 Century Newspapers Limited

                              114 of 251 DOCUMENTS

                                THE BRISTOL POST

                               November 26, 2001

Terrorism laws 'are a victory for attackers';
 WAR ON TERROR

SECTION: News, Pg.5

LENGTH: 254 words


PASSING the draconian antiterrorism laws proposed by Government ministers would
amount to a victory for those behind the September 11 attacks on the US, said
Liberal Democrat leader Charles Kennedy.

Home Secretary David Blunkett says the package, which includes internment
without trial for suspected foreign terrorists, is needed to protect the public.

Mr Kennedy said his party agreed with "quite a lot" of what the Government were
doing.

But he warned: "If we allow ourselves to get into a situation where in fact we
are suppressing our own individual rights in the wake of these dreadful
atrocities, actually the terrorist begins to win." Lib Dem MPs would vote
against the Bill unless the Home Secretary "retreats" before it is debated again
in the Commons today, Mr Kennedy told the BBC1 programme War Report.

They hope Lib Dem peers will be able to delay the Bill in the Lords.

Internment is being brought in because Human Rights laws prevent Mr Blunkett
from deporting suspected foreign terrorists to their home country if they could
face torture or the death penalty.

However, Mr Kennedy insisted that Ministers should learn from the experience of
internment in Northern Ireland.

Proposals to outlaw incitement to racial hatred should also be dropped from the
Bill.

He said: "There is a sense that the Home Office has dusted down from the shelves
one or two items that really don't belong in this legislation at all and think
this is the opportunity to push something through."

LOAD-DATE: November 28, 2001

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                      Copyright 2001 Bristol United Press

                              115 of 251 DOCUMENTS

                           Coventry Evening Telegraph

                           November 26, 2001, Monday

SUICIDE ATTACKER INJURES 2;
 WAR ON TERRORISM

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 122 words


A PALESTINIAN suicide bomber blew himself up at an Israeli checkpoint in the
northern Gaza Strip, wounding two Israeli border policemen.

The checkpoint is at the northern edge of the Gaza Strip and is passed every
morning by Palestinian workers who have jobs in Israel.

There was no immediate report of any Palestinians hurt in the explosion, apart
from the attacker.

The border policemen were injured by fragments in the arms and legs.

Palestinian Islamic militant groups have carried out scores of suicide attacks
in recent years, killing hundreds of Israelis. Usually the explosions have been
at crowded places in Israeli cities.

There was no immediate claim of responsibility for the latest attack.

LOAD-DATE: November 26, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

                   Copyright 2001 Coventry Newspapers Limited

                              116 of 251 DOCUMENTS

                         The Evening Standard (London)

                               November 26, 2001

Battle for Afghanistan: MPs poised to attack Blunkett terror Bill

BYLINE: Patrick Hennessy;Justin Davenport;Hugh Muir

SECTION: Pg. 5

LENGTH: 345 words


MPS ARE preparing renewed attacks on the Government's controversial package of
antiterrorism laws tonight amid growing signs that Home Secretary David Blunkett
may have to water down his proposals.

The plans to target terrorists trying to take refuge in Britain in the wake of
the 11 September attacks are set to clear their final Commons hurdle today.

But then they are likely to face a fierce cross-party assault by peers opposed
to moves to create a new offence of inciting religious hatred.

In the Commons, the Liberal Democrats have warned they will vote against the
Bill if the Government does not change its plans to detain suspects
automatically without trial, a move which has already sparked a large-scale
rebelllion by Labour MPs The Tories are focusing their opposition on proposals
for the police to be given wider powers to check bank accounts and medical
records.

Labour's massive majority means that the Bill is certain to clear the Commons,
but in the Lords Mr Blunkett is likely to be forced into concessions.

The Home Office, however, has up to now steadfastly insisted he is not
preparedto back down. The debate comes as Scotland Yard presses the Home Office
for GBP 300 million so it can pay for an increase in armed officers and
equipment to protect London from terrorism. The force aims to put another 400
armed officers on the streets to protect diplomats, politicians and sensitive
targets.

The Yard also wants to buy an extra 800 carbines and pistols and increase the
number of armed response cars and bombproof vehicles.

The proposal could mean the biggest expansion of the force's firearms capability
in 20 years.

Londoners have already been left to foot a bill amounting to GBP 1 million a
week for heightened security in the capital following the 11 September
atrocities, London Assembly chairwoman Sally Hamwee claimed today.

Baroness Hamwee said: "The cost of extra security since 11 September has been
huge and the strain on individual officers, working long hours without leave, is
enormous."


LOAD-DATE: November 27, 2001

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                   Copyright 2001 Associated Newspapers Ltd.

                              117 of 251 DOCUMENTS

                            The Independent (London)

                           November 26, 2001, Monday

MPS PREPARE FOR FINAL ATTACK ON TERROR BILL

BYLINE: Nigel Morris

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 377 words


DAVID BLUNKETT, the Home Secretary, will face renewed Commons attacks over his
controversial package of anti-terrorism laws today.

He will encounter criticism from MPs of all parties worried by the moves
designed to crack down on terrorists attempting to take refuge in Britain.
Terrorist suspects will be automatically detained without trial under the plans,
while police will get wider powers to check bank and medical details.

Labour left-wingers and the Liberal Democrats will mount a final attempt to
water down the anti-terrorism Bill as it goes through its remaining Commons
stages before passing to the Lords.

Critics say the automatic detention move - which required Mr Blunkett to declare
a "state of public emergency" in order to opt out from part of the European
Convention on Human Rights - flies in the face of automatic justice.

They are also vowing a last-minute attempt to remove a clause that allows police
to obtain confidential documents from a suspect regardless of their relevance to
a criminal investigation.

Charles Kennedy, the Liberal Democrat leader, said his party agreed with "quite
a lot" of the moves. But he warned: "If we allow ourselves to get into a
situation where in fact we are suppressing our own individual rights, actually
the terrorist begins to win. That is the balance I don't think is properly
judged by the Government. It is not good to make martyrdom of certain
individuals if you can deal with it in a more properly processed legal way,
which recognises the proper rights of the citizen."

The Home Office denied reports that Mr Blunkett was prepared to back off from
measures outlawing the incitement of religious hatred.

That section of his Bill faces an onslaught in the House of Lords from Tory and
Liberal Democrat peers who argue that it will inhibit free speech.

On Wednesday, the Government suffered the biggest backbench rebellion during
this Parliament over its plans to detain foreign terrorist suspects. A promise
by Mr Blunkett that the legislation would have to be reviewed in five years'
time failed to head off the criticism.

The biggest revolt came as 32 Labour MPs opposed powers that prevent the Home
Secretary's decisions being challenged by judicial review.

LOAD-DATE: November 26, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 2001 Independent Print Ltd

                              118 of 251 DOCUMENTS

                               Leicester mercury

                               November 26, 2001

Poignant look at New York after the terror attacks

BYLINE: J. Clay

SECTION: News; Ents; TV/Radio; Pg. 24

LENGTH: 379 words


In the dust-strewn, panic-stricken streets of downtown Manhattan, a photographer
chanced upon a woman flicking urgently through sheets of paper that had
fluttered from the collapsing World Trade Centre.  She was looking for
confidential memos from the banking houses, hoping to land some investment tips.

Who knows if she struck ghoulishly lucky? But it goes to show that September 11,
deeply unpalatable though it might seem, proved an opportunity for some - and
not just Pakistan's flourishing effigy-manufacturing sector.

Take film-maker Lucy Blackstad. In the days when the twin towers meant Wembley,
her aimless little film Bridges (8.05pm BBC2) would have barely registered in
the schedules. The attack on the USA changed that, just as it changed virtually
everything else.

This portrait of life around Brooklyn - the bridge itself, strangely, was barely
mentioned - was haunted by the ghosts of the Trade Centre, which poked into the
picture from virtually every angle.

They drew your eyes, again and again, lending this ordinary documentary a false
poignancy.

gripe Blackstad shot it last year. In October she took the chance to return to
bolt on a new ending and chat again to her random cast of Brooklyners.

One, once the singer of Kid Creole, now just a dreamer who spends his days at
his riverside window, watched the planes smash into the towers.

"I thought it was a police plane," he said. "I thought 'damn, that's big'." This
may be on a par with confessing to the Taliban about a game or two of mixed
beardless Twister, but there's a few holes in my Films I've Seen list.

Casablanca for one. Psycho, Raging Bull, ET, Sound of Music and Gone With The
Wind for others.

So maybe I'm not qualified to gripe. But Toy Story, only number 40 in The 100
Greatest Films (9pm Channel 4 Sunday)? Shame on you Britain.

Paul McCartney aired his wretched new single on SM: TV Live (9.25am ITV
Saturday). If we've got boffins calculating the optimum number of tea bags for
the pot, surely there's a grant kicking around for the first scientist to
discover how a man who penned Let It Be wound up writing the Frog Chorus?
Programme pitch, to Channel 5: Women adjusting to life after plastic surgery.
Title? Walking With Breasts.


LOAD-DATE: April 28, 2002

LANGUAGE: English

                        Copyright 2001 Leicester mercury

                              119 of 251 DOCUMENTS



                                   The Mirror

                           November 26, 2001, Monday

AXE FOR 330 SCOTS JOBS AS AIRLINES CUT ORDERS;
 ROLLS ROYCE WORKERS SUFFER AS A RESULT OF TERROR ATTACKS

BYLINE: James Tait

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 304 words

HIGHLIGHT: JOBS BLOW: Bosses at the Rolls Royce plant in Hillington,;
Renfrewshire say confirmation of more than 300 job losses will be announced on
Friday


AROUND 330 Scots jobs are to be axed this week by aero engine giant Rolls Royce.

The blow follows a massive downturn in airline orders in the wake of the
terrorist attacks in America.

The engineering giant says confirmation of the job cuts will come by Friday when
management hold crisis talks with union officials.

Sources close to the firm say that as many as 300 jobs will go at the Hillington
factory in Renfrewshire, which makes components for the huge airline engines.

That would see more than a fifth of the 1,400 workers employed at the plant
forced to join the dole queue.

And up to another 30 jobs are in danger of being shelved at the engine repair
plant in East Kilbride, which has a workforce of 1,100.

Last month Rolls Royce announced it was to cut 3,800 jobs as a result of
cancelled orders following the massive slump in demand for flying after the
September attacks.

A spokesman for Rolls Royce said: "Management have now identified areas in which
the jobs will be cut.

"We will give a breakdown to union leaders this week."

The biggest chunk of the job losses are expected at the firm's main factories in
Derby and Bristol.

But John Wall, Scottish leader of the white collar union MSF, said: "I am
worried that work will be switched from the Scots plants to Derby and another
big site in Bristol to minimise job losses there.

"As a result of this, I am very fearful for sites like Hillington."

And the AEEU union warned that the job cuts would be "devastating for
manufacturing in central Scotland."

Union spokesman Bernie Hamilton said: "We have been urging the company to hold
its nerve and to take a long term view.

"It will face enormous difficulties trying to recruit workers with such
specialist skills in the future."

reporters@mirror.co.uk

LOAD-DATE: November 26, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                            Copyright 2001 MGN Ltd.

                              120 of 251 DOCUMENTS

                              Western Daily Press

                               November 26, 2001

Investors more cautious since terrorist attack;
 INVESTING

SECTION: Business :Economy :World, Pg.20

LENGTH: 222 words


THE terrorist attacks on the U.S. , coupled with fears of a global recession,
have changed the way people are investing their money, according to research.

Sharp falls in the stock market following the September attacks have led to
investors being more cautious about where they put their money, says a report by
IN-Partnership Group.

The network of independent financial advisors said since the disaster there had
been a marked shift away from risky products such as equities, into safer ones
such as bonds and investment funds with guarantees.

It added that there had also been a rise in people taking out or increasing the
value of critical illness and death cover, with many expressing fears that the
terrorists may strike in the UK.

Overall 60 per cent of IFAs said their clients were now more worried about their
financial future than they had been prior to the attack.

They added that they had been inundated with calls since September 11, with the
number of people wanting advice rising dramatically.

Investors were also reported to be pessimistic about the state of the economy,
with 58 per cent of IFAs claiming their clients thought a global recession
loomed. The group is predicting that the uncertainty will continue until the
terrorists responsible for the attacks have all been caught.

LOAD-DATE: November 26, 2001

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                      Copyright 2001 Bristol United Press

                              121 of 251 DOCUMENTS

                            Birmingham Evening Mail

                           November 27, 2001, Tuesday

MAJOR FIRMS IN 3,300 JOB CUTS;
 TERRORIST ATTACKS LEAD TO DECISIONS

SECTION: Pg. 6

LENGTH: 265 words


MORE than 3,300 jobs are to go as two major firms feel the full effects of the
September 11 terrorist attacks.

Tour operator Airtours is to lose 1,600 staff while the regional jet building
arm of BAE Systems will shed a further 1,700.

The Airtours job losses - half in the States and the rest in Britain and Europe
- follow the axing of 1,200 staff by the firm last year.

Chief executive Tim Byrne said the staff cuts were made as a direct result of
September 11.

'It was directly to do with September 11. We felt it was a prudent and necessary
measure.'

Employs

The group, which employs around 26,000 staff worldwide, does not expect to cut
further jobs. Providing the outlook remains the same for bookings I think that's
where our workforce will stay.'

Airtours added although research showed the vast majority of its customers would
take a holiday next summer, it had seen a deferral of booking decisions for the
summer season. The BAE cuts, caused by a slowdown in jet production, will hit
factories in Manchester and Prestwick in Scotland.

They were today described as devastating' by union leaders.

Chief executive John Weston said the company had completed a detailed assessment
of the likely impact on its business of the 'severe downturn' in the commercial
aerospace market. 'Since September the trading outlook in these markets has
changed substantially.'

Profit expectations for the Airbus, which BAE helps build, have been reduced
significantly next year and the outlook for regional aircraft has 'deteriorated
sharply', said Mr Weston.

LOAD-DATE: November 28, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

               Copyright 2001 Midland Independent Newspapers plc

                              122 of 251 DOCUMENTS

                            The Independent (London)

                           November 27, 2001, Tuesday

CAMPAIGN AGAINST TERRORISM: AL-QA'IDA ALMOST 'IMMUNE TO ATTACK' INSIDE ITS
HI-TECH UNDERGROUND LAIR

BYLINE: Richard Lloyd Parry In Jalalabad Osama bin Laden and his al-Qa'ida
followers are hiding in caves cut in to the Afghan hills Rex Features

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 737 words


IT HAS its own ventilation system and its own power, created by a hydro
-electric generator. Its walls and floors in the rooms are smooth and finished
and it extends 350 yards beneath a solid mountain. It is so well defended and
concealed that - short of poison gas or a tactical nuclear weapon - it is immune
to outside attack. And it is filled with heavily armed followers of Osama bin
Laden, with a suicidal commitment to their cause and with nothing left to lose.

Yesterday, for the first time, a witness spoke about one of the greatest
remaining challenges for the effort to destroy al-Qa'ida - its underground cave
complex in the Tora Bora area of the White Mountains of eastern Afghanistan. He
described a purpose-built guerrilla lair, in and around which as many as 2,000
Arab and foreign fighters and remnants of the Taliban are reported to be
preparing for a guerrilla battle.

The witness is an Afghan from Jalalabad who visited the Tora Bora base six
months ago as a guest of the so-called "Arabs" - foreign fighters, including
Saudis, Pakistanis and Chechens, who make up the rank and file of al-Qa'ida in
Afghanistan. Many more converged on the base after the Taliban retreated from
Jalalabad 12 days ago and, according to reports received by the anti-Taliban
mujahedin who have taken over Jalalabad, the Arabs have employed local people to
extend and fortify new caves.

The journey to Tora Bora begins on the road south from Jalalabad, on which Mr
bin Laden rented a house until two months ago. Soon after the town of Bachera
Gam, the road peters out in to a narrow track to Tora Bora, which can only be
reached on foot. Here are parked 450 pick-up trucks that the Arabs leave in the
care of local retainers. The Arabs operate a business here, felling the timber
from the broad forests in the foothills of the White Mountains.

"Tora Bora means 'black dust'," said the Afghan witness, who wishes to remain
anonymous for fear that his Arab connections will get him into trouble with
Jalalabad's new mujahedin rulers. "It is completely surrounded by mountains and
they have to bring in their supplies by asses, camels and horses."

Ironically, the caves - in the side of a mountain called Ghree Khil - were first
developed by the men who are now the Arabs' enemies: the mujahedin, during their
war of resistance against the Soviet Union. But members of al -Qa'ida -
reportedly employing expertise from Mr bin Laden's Saudi construction businesses
- have turned rough natural cavities into a sophisticated military base.

"It's like a hotel, with doors on the left and the right," said the witness.
"They have an electrical system which provides power for the caves, driven by
water from the peaks of the mountains. The entrance is wide enough to drive a
car inside. You walk for 15 metres until you reach a door made of wood. After
the doorway, it divides into branches."

Winters are bitterly cold in the White Mountains but, according to the witness,
the Arabs are well equipped. "The villagers carry necessities to them from the
other side of the mountain," he said. "They don't need to burn coal because the
rooms have electricity, but there is a kind of (ventilation) station which picks
up the smoke and carries it out to the sky. They have all kinds of winter
clothes, so they can go anywhere."

The rock in the area is black and glistens with crystals. "There are small rooms
and big rooms, and the wall and floor are cemented." he said. "You can only make
out what they really are because you can see the sharp rock in the ceiling.

"Outside the entrance to the cave there are a lot of trees so it's hard to see
from the sky. The local people are not allowed to walk near the cave and Osama
warned that if they go near the cave they will die."

An assault on Tora Bora would be a daunting task for any army, and it is
becoming clear that the new mujahedin rulers of Jalalabad are incapable of such
an undertaking. Even prolonged airstrikes would not make a significant impact on
the caves, and the only certain way of clearing them out would be with large
numbers of ground troops.

Yesterday, the pre-eminent of the mujahedin commanders who have taken over
Jalalabad, Hazrat Ali, said he believed Osama bin Laden was in the White
Mountains area. "We don't know the exact number of al-Qa'ida and Taliban are
there, but I'm 70 per cent sure Osama is there," he said.

LOAD-DATE: November 27, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 2001 Independent Print Ltd

                              123 of 251 DOCUMENTS

                UK Newsquest Regional Press - This is Lancashire

                               November 27, 2001

Masked thugs in knife attack terror.

BYLINE: Claire Fearn (author email ssharp@lancashire.newsquest.co.uk)

SECTION: News

LENGTH: 226 words

DATELINE: Colne



TWO men have pulled weapons on their victims in the second robbery within ten
days.

A 20-year-old man from Barnoldswick was walking along a footpath off Leach
Street, in the Vivary Bridge area of Colne at around 10.15pm on Saturday when he
was confronted by two young men who had their faces covered with scarves.

One of the men produced a knife and asked him to hand over his wallet.

DC Jill McDonald, of Colne CID, said: "He was walking down a secluded footpath
near to a residential area and the railway line.

"He was frightened when they pulled out the knife so he handed his wallet over
straight away and they left."

The two men were described as between 17 and 20 years old, wearing dark clothing
and scarves.

A 36-year-old woman was also threatened by two young men wearing dark clothing
the previous week in North Valley Road, close to McDonalds.

They approached her around the tea-time rush hour and held a hypodermic syringe
and a cigarette lighter to her leg until she handed over GBP 30. DC McDonald
said: "It is unusual to have two incidents like this in such a short amount of
time but at the moment we are not able to link the two apart from the fact the
offenders were two young men in each case."

If anyone saw or has information about either of the incidents they should
contact Colne CID on 01282 472445.

LOAD-DATE: November 27, 2001

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: News

                  Copyright 2001 NewsQuest Media Group Limited

                              124 of 251 DOCUMENTS

                                  Western Mail

                           November 27, 2001, Tuesday

ATTACK ON ANTI-TERROR BILL CLAUSE DEFEATED

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 183 words


A BID to remove a new offence of incitement to religious hatred from emergency
anti-terrorism legislation failed in the Commons last night.

Despite cross party concerns, the move to drop the new offence from the Anti
-Terrorism, Crime and Security Bill was defeated by 328 votes to 209, Government
majority 119.

The Bill was expected to clear the Commons last night amid continuing claims
that it is being rushed too quickly into law.

In committee stage debate on the measure, Liberal Democrat spokesman Simon
Hughes argued it was "entirely inappropriate" to link the new offence of
religious hatred to the events of September 11.

Mr Hughes said the controversial issue should be "put aside".

He said MPs should concentrate on the anti-terrorist measures themselves and
return to the issue of religious hatred in a more "measured" way at a later
date.

Shadow home secretary Oliver Letwin condemned the proposal as "ill conceived"
and warned that passing such legislation at this time could have the
unintentional effect of inflaming prejudices and religious hatred.

LOAD-DATE: November 27, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                    Copyright 2001 Western Mail and Echo Ltd

                              125 of 251 DOCUMENTS

                              Gloucestershire Echo

                               November 28, 2001

Terror attacks hit public purse

SECTION: NEWS; POLITICS; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 25 words


INTERNATIONAL terrorism and the slow down in the world economy have left
Gloucestershire councils facing budget shortfalls in the coming year.

LOAD-DATE: May 2, 2002

LANGUAGE: English

                      Copyright 2001 Gloucestershire Echo

                              126 of 251 DOCUMENTS

                            The Independent (London)

                          November 28, 2001, Wednesday

COST OF TERROR ATTACKS RISES 45% FOR LLOYD'S

BYLINE: Katherine Griffiths

SECTION: BUSINESS; Pg. 21

LENGTH: 224 words


LLOYD'S OF London yesterday hiked its estimated losses from the US terrorist
attacks by 45 per cent to pounds 1.9bn, raising fears of more demands for cash
from members.

Lloyd's had said the total bill would be pounds 1.3bn when it issued its first
estimate on 26 September, its largest ever one-off hit in its 300-year history.
Like many other insurers, it has increased the level as the scale of damage has
become clearer.

As well as increasing the net figure liability figure by 45 per cent, Lloyd's
said its gross figure - before reinsurance - was also up by 6 per cent to pounds
5.7bn. The net figure has risen by much more because Lloyd's now believes it
will not be able to claim on all of its reinsurance. Lloyd's insisted that the
new figure did not mean that its central finances had been weakened. This was
despite the fact that Lloyd's also increased estimated losses for the years of
1999 and 2000, which it has still to report.

Sax Riley, chairman of Lloyd's, said: "Anyone searching these figures for signs
of Lloyd's demise will be disappointed. We've stated very clearly that Lloyd's
can manage its losses. These new projections don't change that position."

But the organisation conceded that future cash calls on members were likely to
be higher due to the increased estimate from the hijack attacks.

LOAD-DATE: November 29, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 2001 Independent Print Ltd

                              127 of 251 DOCUMENTS

               UK Newsquest Regional Press - This is Local London

                               November 28, 2001

Sound advice on terrorist attacks.

SECTION: News

LENGTH: 181 words

DATELINE: Wimbledon



Warnings as to how businesses should deal with the threat of chemical,
biological or nuclear attacks are being sent out across the borough.

There have been nearly 1,200 reported anthrax alerts in London in the weeks
following September 11, all of them false alarms but the message from Wimbledon
Police is better safe than sorry.

Terrorist or criminal incidents of this nature are extremely rare. If there is a
concern that a suspect chemical or biological package has been received, there
are sensible steps to take to minimise exposure, the police warn.

The overall message is to remain calm.

The first sign an incident may have occurred could be a suspicious object,
strong smell of noxious fumes, groups of people suddenly feeling unwell or
experiencing sudden skin blisters.

A basic step which can minimise risk is having a dedicated area for the receipt
of incoming mail.

There is a dedicated Met Police chemical, biological and nuclear team ready and
waiting for all eventualities in case of emergency.

If you seen anything suspicious call 999 immediately.

LOAD-DATE: November 28, 2001

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: News

                  Copyright 2001 NewsQuest Media Group Limited

                              128 of 251 DOCUMENTS

                     Belfast News Letter (Northern Ireland)

                          November 29, 2001, Thursday

WAR ON TERROR: BANKROLLER OF ATTACKS HUNTED

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 222 words


THE FBI is still hunting the man they believe bankrolled the September 11 terror
attacks.

His name was found in a series of documents seized by police in Dublin when they
raided the offices of a Saudi-backed charity.

Investigators and American spies are conducting a worldwide manhunt for Mustafa
Ahmed al-Hawasawi, a 33-year-old Saudi they have dubbed Osama bin Laden's chief
financial officer.

Al-Hawasawi is said to have brought in up to pounds 200 million a year for bin
Laden and his al Qaida terrorist organisation through his contacts with hard
-line Muslim businessmen.

He is the man who wired up to pounds 70,000 to America for the living expenses
of the September 11 hijackers as they trained to become pilots, and acquired the
Visa cards three used to buy their airline tickets on the Internet.

The FBI fears that al- Hawasawi has the ability to fund an even larger terror
attack through his fund-raising efforts which draw in Muslim millionaires,
mosques and charities.

Officials told USA Today newspaper that al- Hawasawi was such an adept
fundraiser that he did not need bin Laden's personal fortune, itself estimated
to be in the millions, to fund fresh terror efforts.

Al-Hawasawi's involvement in the September 11 attacks has been traced by the FBI
and police forces around the world.

LOAD-DATE: November 29, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

                   Copyright 2001 Century Newspapers Limited

                              129 of 251 DOCUMENTS

                           Coventry Evening Telegraph

                          November 29, 2001, Thursday

SUPPORT FOR 'STILETTO' ATTACKS;
 WAR ON TERRORISM

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 123 words


Defence Secretary Geoff Hoon (above) signalled British support for military
action in countries other than Afghanistan - but not Iraq.

Speculation is growing about so-called "stiletto attacks" on countries like
Yemen, Somalia and Sudan, where cells of Osama bin Laden's al Qaida network are
believed to operate.

Mr Hoon said an "invasive military response" may be needed in countries where
the security services cannot attack at the terror network themselves.

But he again underlined Britain's view that action against Iraq - demanded by
"hawks" in the US administration - would not be justified. "I have not seen any
evidence to link Iraq directly with al Qaida," he told the House of Commons
Defence Select Committee.

LOAD-DATE: November 29, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

                   Copyright 2001 Coventry Newspapers Limited

                              130 of 251 DOCUMENTS



                               New Civil Engineer

                           November 29, 2001 Thursday

Terrorist attack

SECTION: ARTICLE; Archive; News

LENGTH: 859  words



HIGHLIGHT: Debate


In the wake of the World Trade Center disaster unions concerned about the safety
of their members who are expected to work in what might become terrorist targets
have been demanding major safety improvements. This week we ask: Does the public
have a right to expect that landmark buildings are designed to resist terrorist
attack?

Yes

Dr Graham Owens director, Steel Construction Institute 'Safe as houses' is an
emotive phrase that very effectively encapsulates UK society's attitude for
safety in our built environment. Of course, attitudes are different in other
regions of the world. Areas subject to major seismic action are conditioned by
those extreme events; some other countries hold life more cheaply than we do.

Although our building regulations and codes and standards are under the expert
custodianship of civil and structural engineers, we are inevitably sensitive to
society's attitudes when defining the underlying performance criteria. There is
no doubt in my mind that our response to the disproportionate collapse of Ronan
Point in 1968 was partially conditioned by the widespread, and fully
justifiable, public concern at the accident.

As a result, our requirements for structural integrity are the most effective in
the world.

There are widely held views that, if the WTC had been designed and detailed to
our current regulations, these collapses would have been less catastrophic. It
is most instructive to note the extensive structural damage to the Murrah
Federal Building in Oklahoma City, bombed by Timothy McVeigh, and compare it
with what happened in the IRA blast in London's Docklands, where the primary
effect was shattered glazing.

We certainly have the tools to meet society's expectations.

Risk assessment is now established practice in sensitive situations - good
examples are offshore structures (following the Piper Alpha disaster).

So, society undoubtedly has the right to expect engineers and the construction
industry to respond effectively to their requirements for buildings to resist
terrorist attack. However, before too extreme a reaction to September 11 becomes
established in practice, there are two important cautions.

First, such construction will cost more and it may be much more effective to
spend those resources reducing the risks at their source. Secondly, as we become
more concerned about sustainability, construction will have to 'tread more
lightly on the earth.' High rise bomb shelters would be impossible to demolish
economically. They would remain as very forlorn testaments to our society's
frailties long after they had outlived their usefulness.

No

James Bennett divisional director, Connell Mott MacDonald Clearly this answer is
dependent on the extent to which engineers are to design for terrorist attacks.

Engineers cannot be expected to decide what is an appropriate type of terrorist
attack to design for - several years ago it was a car bomb outside a building,
then it was a bomb inside the building. Now it is airliners hitting the
building. Next year it will be à who knows? This responsibility should not be
placed on the engineer.

The client is the one to have the most say in this issue. A rational discussion
with the design team is required. Even designing for reasonably predictable
events/risks could lead to long term problems.

Imagine the situation where a client announces that his building has been
designed to resist the effects of an internal bomb blast on any one floor, the
bomb being typical of similar devices used by terrorists in the past. In terms
of such an event the building is safe.

This creates a perception that it is safe full stop. Imagine then four bombs
(far bigger than allowed for) exploding on four separate floors - and the
building collapses.

Who is at fault?

Designing sensibly for something that is unknown and unpredictable is
unrealistic and creates false perceptions.

The cost to the client will obviously increase while the net lettable area is
very likely to decrease.

The return on investment is inevitably going to be hit. Projects become
unviable. There becomes less work for all the industries associated with
construction. Unemployment is affected. A vicious downward spiral.

To say the public has a right to expect that buildings be designed for terrorist
attacks is far too big a call for my liking.

What it needs is rational consideration and 'appropriate' action.

The facts lMajor structural collapse after terrorist attack is extremely rare.
During the IRA's 30 year bombing campaign, often employing very large car and
truck bombs, only older structures suffered damage so severe they had to be
demolished.

Major fires are also uncommon, unless deliberately started by incendiary
devices.

lDisproportionate collapse is where a relatively minor event, such as a gas
cylinder explosion or the impact of a road vehicle, causes major collapse or
damage. What occurred in Manhattan on 11 September is arguably not
disproportionate collapse.

lFollowing the spate of terrorist attacks in the UK in the 1990s, the Steel
Construction Institute was commissioned to prepare guidance which appeared in
publication P244, Protection of Buildings Against Explosions.

LOAD-DATE: November 29, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Magazine

JOURNAL-CODE: New Construction Engineer


                            Copyright 2001 Emap Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                              131 of 251 DOCUMENTS

                                  Daily Record

                           November 30, 2001, Friday

GOODBYE MY LOVE;
 FAMILIES WEEP FOR BRITISH VICTIMS OF THE TWIN TOWERS TERROR ATTACKS

BYLINE: Jane Kerr

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 506 words


ONE by one, they stepped forward to lay a single white rose in memory of British
victims of the September 11 atrocities.

And, 79 days after they lost loved ones, their faces revealed their pain was as
raw as ever yesterday during the memorial service at Westminster Abbey
yesterday.

Maureen Maddison clutched her 16-month-old baby and was flanked by children
Caileigh, seven, and Kyle, four, as she stooped to lay a rose for her husband
Simon.

She kissed her hand, touched her rose and whispered: "Goodbye."

Her face swollen by tears, she had to be guided back by the comforting arm of a
friend.

Simon Maddison was a computer programmer from Harlow, Essex, who died with his
colleagues at Cantor Fitzgerald in the World Trade Center.

His family became a symbol for all bereaved parents and children and Maureen
Maddison led nearly 800 family and friends of the 80 British victims in the act
of remembrance.

They lined up in front of the memorial until it was covered in a mass of white
roses, letters and photos.

There was the little girl in school uniform, her hair tied back with a black
hair-band and her eyes red from crying; the toddler held aloft in her father's
arms; the mother in a grey cardigan and coloured scarf whose face showed deep
grief.

The Queen, Duke of Edinburgh and the Prince of Wales, flanked by Prime Minister
Tony Blair and former President George Bush, representing the US President,
watched the silent , dignified procession.

The flags of the United States and United Kingdom were carried side by side to
the altar shortly before the national anthem and the Star Spangled Banner were
played.

All the families were given a chance to influence the order of the service.

Actress Dame Judi Dench read out Remember by Christina Rossetti and Time Is Too
Short by Henry Van Dyke.

And in a moving sermon, the Archbishop of Canterbury, Dr George Carey recalled
the "extraordinary heroism" of those in the terror attacks.

He said: "I read of one young man who managed to contact a friend with a message
for his family. His final words were, 'I don't think I am going to make it,
John. Have a great life'.

"There is something quietly but truly inspiring about this."

He said there were many stories of inspiration and added: "We must find a better
way, a better future for our wonderful but broken world. Surely, the men and
women we remember here today would want that."

The Memorial to Innocent Victims, where the families lined up to lay the white
roses, was unveiled in 1996.

It commemorates civilians who have suffered death and oppression throughout the
world. It was a fitting centrepiece for yesterday's tributes.

And, on a day of unity, the story of a generous act of kindness emerged.

An office worker at the Department for Culture, Media and Sport, involved in
organising the event, forked out pounds 3000 of her own cash to ensure that an
American family who had missed their flight managed to catch another one to make
it to the service.

LOAD-DATE: November 30, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

            Copyright 2001 Scottish Daily Record & Sunday Mail Ltd.

                              132 of 251 DOCUMENTS

                            The Independent (London)

                           November 30, 2001, Friday

COUPLE CHARGED OVER FALSE DEATH CLAIM IN NEW YORK TERROR ATTACKS

BYLINE: Chris Gray

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 154 words


A COUPLE accused of falsely claiming the wife was killed in the 11 September
terrorist attacks were charged yesterday with insurance fraud.

Charles Allen Gavett, 44, and his wife, Cynthia, 40, were arrested on Monday,
the state Insurance Commissioner, John Oxendine, said.

The Pike County Sheriff, Jimmy Thomas, said: "We're a rural county. We would not
have expected somebody to take advantage like this." The Gavetts live in
Concord, about 45 miles (72 kilometres) south of Atlanta.

Mr Gavett filed a death claim with Minnesota Life Insurance Co, claiming his
wife had an appointment in one of the twin towers on 11 September. Minnesota
Life became suspicious after learning that the office co-ordinating the search
for the missing had no record of Mrs Gavett, and the local newspaper never
published an obituary.

The insurer said it then learned that Cynthia Gavett had been seen since the
attacks.

LOAD-DATE: November 30, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 2001 Independent Print Ltd

                              133 of 251 DOCUMENTS

                     Belfast News Letter (Northern Ireland)

                           December 1, 2001, Saturday

WAR AGAINST TERROR: WARLORD TO ATTACK 'BIN LADEN CAMP'

SECTION: WORLD NEWS; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 249 words

HIGHLIGHT: DIGGING IN: Cpl William Boyd of the Marines fortifies his position at
the US base in Afghanistan


AN Afghan warlord was preparing yesterday to attack a suspected mountain hideout
where he thinks Osama bin Laden is in hiding with 600 Taliban and al -Qaida
fighters.

Hazrat Ali, security chief for eastern Nangarhar province, said a final decision
to launch the attack on Tora Bora had not been taken.

The camp is in a high mountain valley filled with hidden caves near the
Pakistani border.

Ali he said anti-Taliban forces must act soon if the non-Afghan fighters fail to
surrender.

"All the leaders of Nangarhar have taken the decision to eliminate the Arabs
that are in Tora Bora as soon as possible," he said, adding that a delegation
had been sent to negotiate a surrender.

He said the post-Taliban administration could not wait too long for the fighters
to come down from the 13,000ft valley voluntarily.

"If we don't make a decision to attack soon, the Americans will decide to
attack, so we will soon decide," Ali said.

Tora Bora is a well-known cave complex built in the 1980s with US funding as a
headquarters for guerrillas fighting against the Soviet occupation.

Ali, who fought the Soviets from Tora Bora, has described it as an impregnable
fortress.

He advised US forces from attacking it alone.

"If American soldiers attack by themselves, there will be no possibility for
them to succeed and the Arabs are waiting for them," Ali said.

"Afghans are familiar with fighting in these mountains.

"Only working together can we succeed."

LOAD-DATE: December 1, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

                   Copyright 2001 Century Newspapers Limited

                              134 of 251 DOCUMENTS

                                   The People

                            December 2, 2001, Sunday

THCARED EUBANK REFUTHETH TO FLY!;
 HE DAREN'T COME HOME AFTER TERROR ATTACK

BYLINE: Jon Carter

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 17

LENGTH: 210 words

HIGHLIGHT: WORRIED: Eubank; STRAIN: Wife Karron


FORMER world boxing champ Chris Eubank has been stranded in the Middle East for
two months - because he's too SCARED to fly following the September 11 attacks.

The sporting star with the lisp - who prided himself on his fearlessness in the
ring - was in Dubai, in the Arabian Gulf, on a business tour when jet hijackers
struck in the U.S.

Former world middle-weight champ Eubank, 35, told friends: "I am very worried
about the terror situation at the moment and I've been warned it's just not safe
for me to come back."

But his absence has kicked up a sand storm on the domestic front because his
wife Karron is feeling a little DESERTED.

A close pal said: "Poor Karron has been stuck on her own with their four kids
and is livid that he's stayed out there so long."

And Eubank's spokeswoman Mary Finan admitted: "It is putting a strain on things.

"It really doesn't help when your husband is away for all this time."

Karron, speaking from the family home in Hove, Sussex, said: "We're just sitting
tight until we get more news."

Eubank has even cancelled a UK tour of his one-man show because he's away. And
one venue - the Pavilion Theatre, in Glasgow - is threatening to sue over lost
ticket sales.

Thort it out, Chrith!

LOAD-DATE: December 2, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

                            Copyright 2001 MGN Ltd.

                              135 of 251 DOCUMENTS

                                Birmingham Post

                            December 3, 2001, Monday

WAR ON TERROR: 'ABHORRENT' ATTACKS ARE CONDEMNED BY STRAW

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 401 words


Foreign Secretary Jack Straw yesterday condemned an 'abhorrent' wave of bombings
in Israel which killed at least 26 people and injured nearly 200 more.

Mr Straw said he was deeply shocked by the attacks in Jerusalem and Haifa, which
included three suicide bombers, and welcomed a pledge by Palestinian leaders to
find those responsible.

He said: 'The targeting of innocent civilians is beyond contempt and I condemn
the attacks absolutely. Such acts are abhorrent and entirely without
justification.

'Our thoughts and prayers are with the families of the dead and with the many
injured in these atrocities.

'These outrages, and the suffering that accompanies them, must stop. I welcome
the pledge by Palestinian leaders to track down those responsible.

'They must bring the guilty to justice and do everything in their power to
prevent further acts of terrorist violence.'

Foreign Office Minister Ben Bradshaw said the 'despicable acts of cold-blooded
murder' had been timed to derail the latest diplomatic initiatives. But he
warned that while pressure would continue on Mr Arafat to do more, Israel's
refusal to return to the negotiating table without a seven-day period free of
violence was playing into the terrorists' hands.

'We will continue to exert the pressure we do on Arafat but it is unrealistic to
expect him to be able to prevent every single suicide bomb attack by
rejectionist Palestinian groups who do not accept his authority and have no
interest in peace, let alone a dialogue with Israel.

'He can do more. He should do more and we put pressure on him constantly to do
more. We offer practical support to both the Israelis and the Palestinians to
try to move this process forward.

'But if you are going to demand a seven-day peace before resuming any political
dialogues you are in effect giving a veto to the men and women of violence.

'We know from our experience in Northern Ireland that if you allow a political
vacuum to continue, you play right into the hands of those people, the
rejectionist Palestinian groups and others, who are not interested in a peace
settlement in the Middle East.

'We can understand the fury and the rage and anger that ordinary Israelis must
be feeling but if we are going to break this cycle of violence then sooner or
later the two sides are going to have to come back around a negotiating table,'
he said.

LOAD-DATE: December 3, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

               Copyright 2001 Midland Independent Newspapers plc

                              136 of 251 DOCUMENTS

                                  Daily Record

                            December 3, 2001, Monday

BLAIR'S LETTER TRIBUTE TO SPIES FOR HEADING OFF TERRORIST ATTACKS

BYLINE: Bob Roberts

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 8, 9

LENGTH: 417 words


BRITAIN'S secret agents have won a special tribute for foiling terrorist revenge
attacks since September 11.

In an unprecedented move, Tony Blair has written letters of thanks to the heads
of all the spy services.

The Prime Minister stressed they had done vital work in blocking al-Qaeda
attacks at home and overseas.

He said they had saved the lives of many civilians and of allied forces fighting
the Taliban in Afghanistan.

The letter's release by Downing Street reflects Blair's belief that the spy
agencies are the "unsung heroes" of the anti-terrorist campaign.

It is felt that while the SAS and Marines have won all the glory, undercover
operations have not been appreciated.

Blair told the spymasters: "The Government and British people are fortunate to
be served by security and intelligence organisations whose professionalism is
admired - and, by our enemies, feared - throughout the world.

"Vital work has been carried out before and after September 11 to disrupt
terrorist planning in the UK, Europe and further afield."

It's believed to have led to the arrest of 10 bin Laden supporters, who were
arrested at Heathrow before they could carry out terror missions in Britain.

And before the atrocities in the US, Britain's security agencies had already
picked up 16 Middle Eastern terrorists.

Blair's letter has gone to MI6 chief Richard Dearlove, in charge of overseas
spies, and Francis Richards, director of the GCHQ listening centre.

MI5 Director General Sir Stephen Lander, the head of security services operating
against terrorists in Britain, was also sent a special note.

Blair's spokesman said that for security reasons, he could not go into details
of what they had done.

But he made it clear their achievements had been significant, adding: "Members
of our intelligence services are putting their lives on the line for the
security of this country."

Agents are believed to have infiltrated terror groups and revealed details of
planned attacks and sources of finance.

This has led to tighter security in capitals and dozens of arrests in Europe.
Other agents in Afghanistan are thought to have blended in with the local people
to relay target details to allied bombers.

Agents have also provided "high quality intelligence" in the hunt for bin Laden.

Yesterday, US Defence Secretary Donald Rumsfeld publicly praised the British
special forces in Afghanistan as "some of the toughest, smartest troops in the
world".

LOAD-DATE: December 3, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

            Copyright 2001 Scottish Daily Record & Sunday Mail Ltd.

                              137 of 251 DOCUMENTS

                                  Daily Record

                            December 3, 2001, Monday

SAVED BY OUR BRAVE SPIES;
 BLAIR: SECRET AGENTS FOIL TERROR ATTACKS

BYLINE: Bob Roberts

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 459 words


BRITAIN'S secret agents have won a special tribute for foiling terrorist revenge
attacks since September 11.

In an unprecedented move, Tony Blair has written letters of thanks to the heads
of all the spy services.

The Prime Minister stressed they had done vital work in blocking al-Qaeda
attacks at home and overseas.

He said they had saved the lives of many civilians and of allied forces fighting
the Taliban in Afghanistan.

The letter's release by Downing Street reflects Blair's belief that the spy
agencies are the "unsung heroes" of the anti-terrorist campaign.

It is felt that while the SAS and Marines have won all the glory, undercover
operations have not been appreciated.

Blair told the spymasters: "The Government and British people are fortunate to
be served by security and intelligence organisations whose professionalism is
admired - and, by our enemies, feared - throughout the world.

"Vital work has been carried out before and after September 11 to disrupt
terrorist planning in the UK, Europe and further afield."

The letter has gone to MI6 chief Richard Dearlove, in charge of overseas spies,
and Francis Richards, GCHQ listening centre director.

MI5 Director General Sir Stephen Lander, the head of security services operating
against terrorists in Britain, was also sent a special note.

Blair's spokesman said that for security reasons he could not go into details of
what they had done.

But he made it clear their achievements had been significant, adding: "Members
of our intelligence services are putting their lives on the line for the
security of this country."

Agents are believed to have infiltrated terror groups and revealed details of
planned attacks and sources of finance.

This has led to tighter security in capitals and dozens of arrests in Europe.

Other agents in Afghanistan are thought to have blended in with the locals to
relay target details to allied bombers.

UK information enabled Ministers to establish the guilt of Osama bin Laden and
al-Qaeda soon after the atrocities in America.

Agents have also provided "high quality intelligence" in the hunt for bin Laden.

Yesterday, US Defence Secretary Donald Rumsfeld publicly praised the British
special forces in Afghanistan.

He said: "American special forces are helping the coalition, serving alongside
the British special forces - some of the toughest, smartest troops in the
world."

He praised Britain's "unhesitating and invaluable" contribution to the war
against terrorism - which was in a "dangerous phase".

On US television, he warned that if bin Laden is hiding in caves, no tactic
could be ruled out to trap him.

He said: "I guess one will do whatever it is necessary to do."

LOAD-DATE: December 3, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

            Copyright 2001 Scottish Daily Record & Sunday Mail Ltd.

                              138 of 251 DOCUMENTS

                         The Evening Standard (London)

                                December 3, 2001

Terror attacks put the lid on pay deals

BYLINE: Ed Harris

SECTION: Pg. 6

LENGTH: 276 words


BIG pay rises will be just a memory this year, according to a new report which
blames slower global growth and a wave of redundancies after the terrorist
attacks of 11 September .

Basic pay will rise by about three per cent - slower growth than this year,
although still ahead of inflation, says the Incomes Data Services report.

An IDS spokesman said most annual increases were above the psychologically
important 2.5 per cent. The headline rate of inflation, the annual change in the
retail prices index, is 1.6 per cent, down from 2.9 per cent a year ago.

The IDS study found settlements in the final quarter were "generally lower" than
earlier in the year. But the rise in the minimum wage has brought some big
increases.

"There are a growing number of pay freezes in sectors that have been hit hardest
by the economic slowdown," the report, which monitored 81 new pay deals covering
a quarter of a million employees, says. "But the rise in the minimum wage and
continuing labour market pressures have led to double-digit percentage
increases."

Air travel and the tourist industry were worst hit by the 11 September attacks.
Pilots at Air 2000, the airline owned by the First Choice holiday group, have
accepted a temporary pay cut to reduce job losses. Electronics and IT have also
seen pay freezes.

But more than half the 11,000 retail staff at First Quench, the off-licence
group, received 10.8 per cent rises in September.

In the public sector, where the Government is trying to tackle staff shortages,
pay is becoming more attractive. A nurses' pay review is expected to propose at
least a three per cent rise.


LOAD-DATE: December 4, 2001

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                   Copyright 2001 Associated Newspapers Ltd.

                              139 of 251 DOCUMENTS

                            The Independent (London)

                            December 3, 2001, Monday

CAMPAIGN AGAINST TERRORISM: SPANISH LINK TO SEPTEMBER ATTACKS

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 140 words


Spanish police were yesterday investigating a lead that a 29-year-old Yemeni who
may have been intended as another hijacker in the 11 September attacks flew to
Spain six days before the terrorist operation.

El Pais said if Ramsi Binalshibh's trip was confirmed it would be yet another
indication that the terrorists had used Spain as a logistical base in planning
the attacks on New York and Washington.

The FBI believes Mr Binalshibh was supposed to have joined the 19 men who
hijacked the four planes and had allegedly tried several times to get into the
United States.

Last week, the US President, George Bush, thanked the Spanish Prime Minister,
Jose Maria Aznar, for the arrest of 14 suspects, mostly Syrians and Algerians,
with alleged links to Osama bin Laden's al-Qa'ida network, which is blamed for
the attacks.

LOAD-DATE: December 3, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 2001 Independent Print Ltd

                              140 of 251 DOCUMENTS

                                THE BRISTOL POST

                                December 6, 2001

'Suicide pilot was planning attack on UK';
 WAR ON TERROR: The latest stories from around the world

SECTION: News, Pg.1

LENGTH: 136 words


NATIONAL: A man arrested in India has confessed to planning suicide attacks in
Britain, Australia's foreign minister said today.

Alexander Downer said Australian authorities were aware a man arrested in Bombay
last month had confessed to planning attacks in Australia and Britain. The
suspect's nationality was not known.

"He has done pilot training apparently in Australia and in Britain so presumably
the type ofsuicide attack he was contemplating was using aircraft, " Downer
said.

"The Indian authorities are taking it seriously." The man was arrested on
suspicion ofbeing linked with Osama bin Laden's al Qaida network.

A spokeswoman for Australian attorney-general Daryl Williams refused to reveal
details of the man's identity or where he completed his training or his
citizenship.

LOAD-DATE: December 7, 2001

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                      Copyright 2001 Bristol United Press

                              141 of 251 DOCUMENTS

                           Coventry Evening Telegraph

                           December 6, 2001, Thursday

90 JOBS SET TO GO AT FLOORING GIANT;
 TERRORIST ATTACKS BLAMED FOR DOWNTURN IN EXPORT MARKET

BYLINE: Colin Lewis Business Editor

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 270 words


COVENTRY-based luxury flooring firm Amtico today announced up to 90 jobs are to
go.

The decision has been blamed on the downturn in export markets triggered by the
September 11 terror attacks.

The company did not specify where the axe would fall, but confirmed that cuts
would be made at all levels across its UK and European operations. It seems
certain that some of the losses will be at its Kingfield Road factory in
Coventry.

Chief executive John Harris, said: "We deeply regret taking this action, but
it's necessary to safeguard the 650-plus jobs that remain and to position
ourselves to weather the recession."

Talks are due to begin with unions and staff to discuss details of the
redundancies.

The cutbacks bring to an end nearly six years of steady growth at Amtico, which
dominates the market for luxury floor tiles and coverings.

The consumer side of the business has grown at the rate of nearly 10 per cent
every year since the company was subject to a management buy- out in 1995.

The company recently moved its retail sales headquarters from Coventry to
Solihull on the strength of demand in the UK, but overseas markets which have
been badly hit by the world economic downturn, are a key part of its business.

Although recession would mean that this year Amtico would see no growth at all,
the company stressed that its operations were still viable.

"We still employ a large number of people and want to see a return to growth in
the near future. In the longer term, we see a sound business established in many
important markets around the world," a spokesman said.

LOAD-DATE: December 6, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

                   Copyright 2001 Coventry Newspapers Limited

                              142 of 251 DOCUMENTS

                           Coventry Evening Telegraph

                           December 6, 2001, Thursday

MAN 'CONFESSES' TO UK TERROR ATTACK PLAN

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 176 words


A MAN arrested in India has confessed to planning suicide attacks in Britain,
Australia's foreign minister said today.

Alexander Downer said Australian authorities were aware that a man arrested in
Bombay last month had confessed to planning attacks in Australia and Britain.
The suspect's nationality was not known.

"He has done pilot training apparently in Australia and in Britain so presumably
the type of suicide attack he was contemplating was using aircraft," Downer
said.

"But whether of course he would have ever gone ahead with it, one doesn't know,
but the Indian authorities are taking it seriously."

The man was arrested on suspicion of being linked with Osama bin Laden's al
Qaida network, the target of the US-led coalition on the ground in Afghanistan.

A spokeswoman for attorney-general Daryl Williams said Australian law
enforcement and security agencies were trying to work out the truth of the man's
claims about the planned terrorist attacks.

Downer said there was no reason to think his claims were a hoax.

LOAD-DATE: December 6, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

                   Copyright 2001 Coventry Newspapers Limited

                              143 of 251 DOCUMENTS

                                  Daily Record

                           December 6, 2001, Thursday

OPERATION VERITAS: HOON: MORE ROGUE STATES FACE ATTACK IN WAR ON TERROR;
  IN WAR ON TERROR

BYLINE: Ian Smith

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 8, 9

LENGTH: 259 words


THE war against terrorism could be extended to other countries after the Afghan
conflict.

Defence Secretary Geoff Hoon issued the warning yesterday as he revealed moves
to beef up the Army's ability to react to international crises.

He raised the spectre of conflicts in other states with links to terrorist
groups.

His comments came amid speculation that Britain and the US are preparing so
-called "stiletto" attacks inside countries like Somalia, Sudan and Yemen where
al-Qaeda terrorists are believed to be active.

Hoon indicated that he wanted the armed forces to have a more active role in
disrupting groups like al-Qaeda, with "search and destroy raids" on their bases.

But he added: "We may need to coerce regimes and states which harbour or support
international terrorism with the threat and, ultimately, the use of military
force in the event that diplomatic and other means fail."

In a wide-ranging speech at King's College, London, Hoon also disclosed that the
Ministry of Defence was reviewing Britain's air defence arrangements in the
light of the September 11 attacks in America.

He also said Britain could be prepared to offer military assistance to "less
capable states" to help them combat the terrorist threat in their own countries.

But shadow defence secretary Bernard Jenkin said Hoon had failed to say how much
extra cash the armed forces would need.

"The Army is already overstretched and undermanned," he said.

"Equipment shortcomings were glaringly exposed during the exercise in Oman."

LOAD-DATE: December 6, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

            Copyright 2001 Scottish Daily Record & Sunday Mail Ltd.

                              144 of 251 DOCUMENTS

                          THE DAILY TELEGRAPH(LONDON)

                          December 06, 2001, Thursday

Terrorists planned airliner attack on Parliament, claims suspect

BYLINE: By Rahul Bedi in New Delhi

SECTION: Pg. 14

LENGTH: 289 words

A MAN arrested in India and linked to the al-Qa'eda network has confessed to
planning suicide attacks in Britain, Australia and India around September 11,
the Indian home minister said yesterday.

"We arrested him a month ago in Bombay and he has made some shocking
confessions," L K Advani said in New Delhi.

Al-Qa'eda, he said, had plans to hit the Houses of Parliament and Tower Bridge,
the Rialto Towers in Melbourne, Australia, and Parliament House in Delhi with
hijacked aircraft filled with fuel, as well as the targets in America.

Mr Advani said Mohammad Afroze, a Bombay resident, learnt to fly in Australia
and England and underwent flight simulator training in Texas.

Arrested on Oct 9, Afroze has been charged with criminal conspiracy to wage war
against India, security officials told The Daily Telegraph. They said Afroze,
along with seven other al-Qa'eda "cell members" from Bangladesh, Afghanistan and
Pakistan who had undergone pilot training in Australia, had booked themselves on
two London-Manchester flights on September 11. They planned to hijack the
aircraft and crash them into Parliament and Tower Bridge, Afroze told security
officials under sustained interrogation.

But as they waited at an airport cafe to board their flights, news of the
September 11 attacks on New York and Washington panicked Afroze and his
companions.

They all fled from the airport, and went their separate ways.

Ten days later Afroze arrived in Bombay where he changed hotels frequently. He
was finally arrested on Oct 9.

Senior police officials said that British, American and Australian security
agencies had not reacted to Afroze's arrest despite being informed about it
nearly six weeks ago.
[PS]News: [ES]

LOAD-DATE: December 6, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 2001 Telegraph Group Limited

                              145 of 251 DOCUMENTS

                UK Newsquest Regional Press - This is Wiltshire

                                December 6, 2001

Escaping the terror attacks .

SECTION: Supp

LENGTH: 691 words


The initial concern as to whether the US economy was showing signs of recovery
or not has certainly been overtaken by the terrorist attack in the US.


Due to the nature of the events in America, concern over an economic situation
has been further complicated with the addition of political and military
dimensions.


The attacks have fundamentally changed the investment background and are near
enough certain to result in the US going into recession, putting further
pressure on the political and economic arenas.


This pressure is being felt particularly by the UK manufacturing sector, which,
according to the recent data, is already in recession.


Companies both directly and indirectly affected will have a tough time adapting
to the economic reality and even though many seem to have escaped with little
impact so far, they will still need to reassess the future in ways that have not
necessarily previously been imagined.


A major concern therefore in the markets is the uncertainty surrounding
corporate profitability.


The valuations of defensive investments continue to look stretched. However,
following the attacks in the US we anticipate continued strength in this area of
the market as risk aversion within investors rises.


Lately there have been quite a few articles on when to switch into cyclicals and
this is a difficult one to call, but certainly quality and visible earnings
should be paramount in any investor's mind.


Looking back through the news over the last month, we have seen that the bad
news can hit the big and the small as even Unilever admitted that its third
quarter profits would be flat and the final quarter could be worse still, thanks
to the after-shocks from the events in America.


London Clubs, which operate casinos around the world, announced that its
flagship Aladdin site in which GBP 900m has been invested had essentially gone
bust, with the shares 159p a year ago tumbling to 6.5p on the news.


EMI had further bad news with its profits expected to be 20 per cent lower than
last year, but of course the die hard habits of smokers meant that BAT continued
to rise through these unsteady markets.


In the airline industry there was the unfortunate news from British Airways,
falling to around half its value compared to six months ago, but Easyjet claimed
that it is still on track to meet City forecasts.


This surprised everyone, with there being further economic casualties such as
Swissair and their Belgian counterpart, Sebena, which looked likely to be
heading for bankruptcy.


Over the past few weeks we seem to have had many differing views on the housing
market with the Nationwide reckoning that prices were rising by 2.8 per cent in
September, but only two days later the Halifax Bank claimed that the average
British home was unchanged in value in September at GBP 93,986.


Elsewhere commentators were stating that the true picture was far less appealing
and that prices were now falling and will start to slide over the coming months.


Marks & Spencer for once saw its shares bounce as the City warmed to the news
that the new Per Una fashion range devised by George Davis had made its debut in
20 stores and was a great success. This seems unlikely to change the fortunes of
Marks & Spencer, but it did lead to some short-term cheer in the share price.


A household name disappeared from sight over the last few weeks: Railtrack,
which was put into administration by the government, stating that basically the
company was bust.


Only three years ago these shares were worth GBP 17, but they were suspended at
208p and at the moment it is difficult to know whether or not ordinary
shareholders will receive anything back at all.


In summary, the news emanating from the economists is more bearish than bullish
and market conditions are probably the worst for around 20 years. But long term
equity investors will be rewarded and patience is the most obvious course of
action.

"http:/
/www.thisiswiltshire.co.uk/wiltshire/swindon/national_news/natbusindex.html"Nat
ional business news - updated daily

LOAD-DATE: December 6, 2001

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: News

                  Copyright 2001 NewsQuest Media Group Limited

                              146 of 251 DOCUMENTS

                                THE BRISTOL POST

                                December 7, 2001

Marines attack convoy;
 WAR ON TERROR: The latest stories from around the world

SECTION: News, Pg.5

LENGTH: 67 words


AFGHANISTAN: US marines attacked a Taliban convoy near Kandahar last night,
killing seven fighters in their first offensive ground action since setting up
base in southern Afghanistan.

The marines also fired mortars into the surrounding desert after detecting
Taliban fighters "probing the perimeter of the base". Two servicemen were
injured when a Huey helicopter crashed near the airstrip.

LOAD-DATE: December 8, 2001

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                      Copyright 2001 Bristol United Press

                              147 of 251 DOCUMENTS

                            Daily Post (North Wales)

                            December 7, 2001, Friday

UK BOSSES SAY THEIR CONF IDENCE IS BUOYANT DESPITE TERROR ATTACKS

BYLINE: Business Corresponents

SECTION: BUSINESS; Pg. 21

LENGTH: 257 words


BRITISH bosses are bucking the European trend by remaining upbeat in the wake of
the September 11 attacks, new research shows.

According to a survey by PricewaterhouseCoopers, 45pc of senior executives in
mainland Europe downgraded financial projections after the atrocities.

But in the UK, the figure was lower with only 34pc of bosses cutting forecasts.

British executives are also trying to maintain "business as usual", with just
15pc placing restrictions on international travel by employees - on the
Continent, however, the figure flies up to 44pc.

Kieran Poynter, senior partner at PwC UK, said: "Businesses across Europe have
clearly been significantly affected by the tragic events of September 11 and
their aftermath.

"But the UK economy appears more resilient than any of the other large European
economies and this is reflected in our survey findings."

British executives were in agreement with their continental counterparts, in
some cases, particularly when it came to longer-term consequences.

Similar percentages thought the attacks would cause continuing stagnation of the
global economy, while 33pc in the UK and 37pc in mainland Europe predicted a
reduction in overseas investment.

Since the attacks, 15pc of UK respondents and 19pc in mainland Europe said they
had cut jobs.

PwC believe, however, this could also have been in response to the economic
conditions before September 11.

PwC surveyed 159 firms in nine European countries, including the UK, Germany,
France and Sweden.

LOAD-DATE: December 7, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: ROLE MODEL: Microsoft founder Bill Gates was guest speaker at the; CBI
Growing Businesses awards in London last night. He is pictured, above right,
with CBI director general Digby Jones

               Copyright 2001 The Liverpool Daily Post & Echo Ltd

                              148 of 251 DOCUMENTS

               UK Newsquest Regional Press - This is Local London

                                December 7, 2001

Helping victims of terror attacks.

SECTION: News

LENGTH: 117 words



Firefighters in West Norwood have raised more than GBP 5,000 to help victims of
the September terrorist attacks in New York.

Crews based at the station in Norwood Road decided to raise money for the
families of the firemen killed in the tragedy.

During the weekend of October 13 to 14, volunteers rolled up their sleeves and
offered to clean cars on the station forecourt for a donation to their fund,
with one anonymous woman contributing a generous GBP 200.

The crews were congratulated on their fundraising last Thursday by Lambeth
Councillor John Whelan. Coun Whelan, who works for conference organisers, lost
16 colleagues in the World Trade Centre terrorist attacks.

LOAD-DATE: December 7, 2001

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: News

                  Copyright 2001 NewsQuest Media Group Limited

                              149 of 251 DOCUMENTS

                               Belfast Telegraph

                                December 8, 2001

Tourism falls after US terror attacks

LENGTH: 174 words


THE number of tourists visiting Britain has plunged following the September 11
terror attacks, a Government report showed today.

Holidaymakers to the UK fell by 31% in October compared to the same time last
year, seasonally-adjusted figures from the Office for National Statistics
revealed.

Tourist numbers fell by 234,000, from 720,000 to 486,000 between October 2000
and October 2001, the non-seasonally adjusted figures revealed.

Meanwhile, trips overseas by UK residents rose by 1% during the August to
October period.

Culture Secretary Tessa Jowell said: "We know that recent world events have
deterred many from taking holidays abroad and some British tourism businesses
have been hit."

But she insisted there was still hope for the UK tourism industry.

"In some parts of Britain, businesses are recording good trade and there are
very encouraging signs for next year.

She added: "Since September 11 we have worked very closely with the industry to
address the immediate problems and long-term issues."


LOAD-DATE: December 8, 2001

LANGUAGE: English

TYPE: Paper

                Copyright 2001 Belfast Telegraph Newspapers Ltd.

                              150 of 251 DOCUMENTS

                           Coventry Evening Telegraph

                           December 8, 2001, Saturday

MYSTERY OF DAD'S MULTI-STOREY DEATH;
 OPEN VERDICT ON MAN WHO WAS UPSET OVER U.S. TERROR ATTACKS

BYLINE: Steve Evans

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 438 words


AN INQUEST has failed to unravel whether a Bedworth dad jumped or fell to his
death from a multi-storey car park in the town centre.

Twenty-seven-year-old 27-year-old Damian Eccles died after leaving a party at
which he had become upset over the terrorist attacks in America.

Although a witness said she saw Mr Eccles jump, Warwickshire Coroner Michael
Coker recorded an open verdict and said he could not be sure whether it was an
accident or an act of suicide.

Mr Eccles, who lived in Newcomen Road, Bedworth Heath, was found fatally injured
on the pavement in Mill Street beneath the Kwik Save multi-storey in the early
hours of September 21.

The inquest heard that he had been at a party in Bedworth with his "special
friend" Amanda Conroy.

Miss Conroy, of Grant Road, Exhall, said that before going to the party Mr
Eccles had rang to tell her "My head is in a nice place".

She said: "I knew he had been worried for a couple of weeks after losing his
job."

She said that halfway through the night, his mood changed.

"He said he just couldn't cope any more and went very deep.

"He was a very serious person sometimes. He said 'The world ends today' - but
he'd done that before and he would use a gesture, laugh, and we knew he was
lying."

Miss Conroy told the coroner that Mr Eccles had been speaking to people at the
party about the tragedy in New York.

He left the party saying he couldn't cope with life any more.

Eventually, she saw him crouching on the first ledge of the car park building.

She told the coroner: "He put his arms out and jumped, feet first.

"I just froze. I was just solid. I just kept thinking: this is not real, this is
not real."

A post mortem examination report showed Mr Eccles had 285mg of alcohol in his
blood, more than three times the drink-drive limit.

There were also traces of cocaine, consistent with what the coroner described as
"recreational use."

Recording his open verdict, Mr Coker said: "Something quite obviously happened
to Damian during the course of the evening.

"It may well have been the affects of the alcohol but his mood changed and he
was upset, perhaps over the tragedy in New York.

"There is a grave suspicion that he intended to take his own life, but I have to
be satisfied beyond reasonable doubt that he intended to take his own life.

"I take the view from what I have heard that he was in a very mixed-up state of
mind, because of the alcohol and the cocaine, and that he might have been trying
to show off to Miss Conroy who was watching him.

"It is possible he was trying to frighten her."

LOAD-DATE: December 12, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

                   Copyright 2001 Coventry Newspapers Limited

                              151 of 251 DOCUMENTS

                              DAILY MAIL (London)

                                December 8, 2001

Britain 'vulnerable to terrorist attack during Christmas';
Blunkett talks of threat as he offers his opponents concessions

BYLINE: Paul Eastham

SECTION: Pg. 8

LENGTH: 569 words


DAVID BLUNKETT raised the spectre of a Christmas bombing campaign yesterday in
an attempt to force through sweeping antiterrorism laws.

As the furious Home Secretary vowed to reverse a series of embarrassing defeats
by the Lords on the emergency terror Bill, he attacked opponents of the
crackdown as 'naive.' He said that if the dissidents could see the intelligence
reports crossing his desk, they would realise that Britain was vulnerable to
attack over Christmas and the New Year.

Later, however, Mr Blunkett offered concessions in the two areas which have
sparked most objections in an attempt to head off opposition.

On his warning of terror outrages, a Home Office spokesman went on to insist
that Mr Blunkett was not definitely predicting a tragedy over the festive
season.

He was merely 'illustrating' the nature of the threat this country faced because
of our alliance with the United States.

But senior Tories said it was 'arrogant and wrong' of the Home Secretary to use
secret information his opponents could not see to defend a Bill containing
measures which had nothing to do with terrorism.

Mr Blunkett is anxious to get the antiterrorism measures on to the statute book
by Tony Blair's self-imposed deadline of Christmas, but opponents inflicted
seven defeats in the Lords on Thursday night.

They claimed that new powers to hold suspects without trial and to force the
disclosure of private information go far beyond the fight against terrorism and
would affect the privacy and liberty of ordinary citizens.

The Bill's critics include some highly experienced Labour peers, bishops and
senior speakers from the crossbenches, as well as judges, notably the former
Master of the Rolls, Lord Donaldson.

The Lords will continue its scrutiny of the Bill on Monday and Tuesday, when the
Government could face yet more humiliating defeats. However, Mr Blunkett will be
hoping that his partial climbdown yesterday will be enough to placate his
opponents.

The strongest criticism has centred on the proposed new laws against incitement
to religious hatred and moves to allow European anti-terror measures to be
introduced without debate in Parliament.

Now, Mr Blunkett is offering new guidelines from the Attorney-General defining
what constitutes incitement to religious hatred.

This aims to quell fears that the law could be used, for example, to prosecute
people who quote from religious texts in public.

His second concession introduces a 'sunset clause', limiting until June 2002 the
period in which EU anti-terror measures could be introduced by
secondary-legislation. The Home Secretary's sudden warning of a Christmas
terrorist threat was seen as an attempt to force his opponents to back off.

On BBC Radio's World At One, he was asked why Britain was the only EU country
that saw itself as being in a state of emergency and why the legislation had to
be rushed in before Christmas.

Mr Blunkett replied: 'Well, God willing there won't be an attack on us over
Christmas and New Year. All those who tell me that we are not a target are the
ones who do not have security and intelligence information which, for my sins, I
carry.

'That information tells us that because of our alliance with the United States
and because of our vulnerability, we are at risk and it is on those grounds we
act to secure ourselves.' p.eastham@dailymail.co.uk


LOAD-DATE: December 9, 2001

LANGUAGE: English

GRAPHIC: DAVID BLUNKETT: NEW ANTITERRORISM LAWS

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                   Copyright 2001 Associated Newspapers Ltd.

                              152 of 251 DOCUMENTS

                                  The Express

                                December 8, 2001

BLUNKETT FEARS TERROR ATTACKS FOR CHRISTMAS

BYLINE: BY KIRSTY WALKER

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 494 words


BRITAIN was put on a state of alert yesterday after Home Secretary David
Blunkett indicated terrorists may be planning an attack over Christmas and New
Year.

He said he possessed security and intelligence information which shows that
Britain is "vulnerable" and "at risk" of terror attacks.

He even hinted that the intelligence information was so frightening that he was
personally struggling to cope with the burden of knowing it.

The stark warning was particularly aimed at peers who "sabotaged" his emergency
Anti-terrorism Bill in a series of defeats on Thursday night.

When asked whether Britain should be in a state of national emergency, Mr
Blunkett replied:

"God willing, there won't be an attack on us over Christmas and New Year.

"Because all those who tell me we are not (vulnerable) are the ones who do not
have the security and intelligence information which, for my sins, I carry.

"And that information tells us that because of our alliance, quite rightly, with
the United States, and because of our vulnerability, we are at risk.

"And it is on those grounds that we act to secure ourselves."

Mr Blunkett's strong comments differ from the Government line that there has
been "no specific threat" to the country since September 11.

His warning came during a full-scale war of words with Tory and Lib Dem peers
after they wrecked his emergency terrorism legislation.

But a Home Office official last night tried to play down any warning. A
spokesman said: "He was expressing a general hope that we would not see more
attacks in view of aiming to get the Bill through by Christmas."

Downing Street also became embroiled in the row with the House of Lords by
branding those who opposed the Bill as "naive". The Government will now struggle
to get the controversial legislation onto the statute books before the Christmas
recess.

The Prime Minister's official spokesman yesterday warned that the Government
would not compromise and was determined to plough ahead with the measures.

"There are those who will do everything they can to kill and undermine our way
of life.

"The public believes we should help the authorities to do everything they can to
prevent these attacks. The police need the practical legislative support that
this Bill offers them - not just warm words."

The defeats on Thursday night related to the parts of the Bill making it easier
for the police to obtain information about suspects and the detention of
suspects without trial.

Mr Blunkett claimed his bill was a "proportionate and necessary response" to the
terror attacks in America.

He said: "Only the naive are not aware of the major relationship between
criminal activity, terrorist funding and the commission of terrorist acts."

Baroness Williams of Crosby, the Liberal Democrat leader in the Lords, said in a
statement:

"Terrorists win if the rule of law and the liberty of individuals are
destroyed."

LOAD-DATE: December 8, 2001

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Newspaper

                       Copyright 2001 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS

                              153 of 251 DOCUMENTS

                                  Western Mail

                           December 8, 2001, Saturday

MORE SEEKING HELP FOR STRESS AFTER TERROR ATTACKS;
 TERRORISM: DELAYED REACTION TO EVENTS OF SEPTEMBER 11 BLAMED AS FRESH CASES OF
TRAUMA APPEAR

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 245 words


PSYCHOLOGISTS have detected a surge in pleas for help almost three months after
the events of September 11.

Cardiff's mental health unit at Whitchurch Hospital is recording an increase in
the number of admissions.

Staff have noticed a rise in referrals in the past few weeks and are blaming
delayed reaction to the terrorist attacks.

And a psychologist in North Wales who has detected an increase in referrals said
it would be surprising if fresh cases of trauma were not showing themselves.

Post-traumatic stress disorder specialist Patricia Campbell-Hughes said the
terrorist attacks of September 11 had left people profoundly shaken.

Some former soldiers she treats for PTSD are experiencing flashbacks to their
own terror after watching television pictures of the plane ploughing into the
World Trade Centre.

But she says other people would now start feeling stress about what happened
because they were getting over the shock of the attacks and would be starting to
personalise it.

She said, " September 11 was so big that it was too big to take in straightaway.

"A lot of people I talk to are feeling down about September 11 now.

They feel the world's no longer a safe place."

In the US health officials in Arlington, Virginia, where a terrorist plane
smashed into the Pentagon, are bracing themselves for a new wave of people
seeking help. They expect to see more divorce, drug abuse and suicide over the
coming 12 months.

LOAD-DATE: December 8, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                    Copyright 2001 Western Mail and Echo Ltd

                              154 of 251 DOCUMENTS

                                  Western Mail

                           December 8, 2001, Saturday

WHY SEPTEMBER 11 WILL ALWAYS BE REMEMBERED;
 THE AFTER EFFECTS OF THE TERRORIST ATTACKS ON THE WORLD TRADE CENTRE ARE STILL
BEING FELT BY PEOPLE WHOSE ONLY INVOLVEMENT WAS WATCHING IT ON TELEVISION

BYLINE: Patrick Fletcher

SECTION: FEATURES; Pg. 10,11

LENGTH: 1869 words


YOU know something is a very big news event when your younger children start
asking questions or making statements about it.

Normally everyday world events pass them by, the news is just a staging posts
between Neighbours and EastEnders.

But every now and again the sheer scale of the event registers so heavily in the
public consciousness that even infant school age children pick up on it.

One example was the death of Diana, Princess of Wales. Another was September 11.

The date of the terrorist attacks on the World Trade towers in New York, the
Pentagon in Washington and the Pittsburgh crash has become shorthand for the
whole event.

The film of the plane smashing into the World Trade Centre in New York was so
vivid, you half expect the action to cut to the inside so you can watch Bruce
Willis shooting up the bad guys.

However, this was not Die Hard, but real life.

And, getting on for three months later it is starting to be felt among those who
might never have been to America, didn't know anyone in the trade towers,
Washington or Pittsburgh and didn't have any connection with the events save for
witnessing it on TV.

So why is it happening? Why are more people in Wales seeking counselling now
than before September 11?

Why has an increase been detected in activity at some mental health units in
Wales?

Psychologists and counsellors say that it would be more surprising if it were
not happening. And, if anything, there's more of it happening now than a couple
of months ago. Delayed reaction?

Psychologist Patricia Campbell-Hughes works for Conwy council's social services
department. She is a specialist in post traumatic stress disorder.

PTSD is a clinical condition. It is most usually associated with people who have
endured some kind of extreme experience, usually a violent one.

Ms Campbell-Hughes works with Falklands War and Gulf War veterans who are trying
to come to terms with the mayhem and death they witnessed.

Typically people with PTSD can experience the most vivid of flashbacks, playing
in their minds over and over again the moments that most terrify them.

She says, "Some of the ex-soldiers I work with have suffered setbacks on account
of September 11.

"They were absolutely mesmerised by what they saw on TV. Even when I said they
shouldn't watch it, they said they couldn't help themselves, they had to.

"They regressed back into their own trauma. We had moved on with some of them,
but September 11 set them back."

The continuing conflict in Afghanistan, media coverage of friendly-fire
mistakes, jail uprisings and failed missions draw them back to events in their
own lives.

Perhaps it is to be expected that war veterans will be unsettled at the very
least by what's going on.

After all, they've been there, know the dangers, have tasted the fear and
anticipation of sudden death.

But Ms Campbell-Smith says that there's no doubt that September 11 has raised
consciousness of trauma among the general population as well.

She's detected an increase in the number of referrals for counselling and at
least some of it is delayed shock at the events in America.

"When it happened people were so shocked, there was a sense of almost disbelief.
You sort of detach yourself.

"It was so big that if you thought about it, it was too big to take in
straightaway.

"A lot of people I talk to are feeling down about September 11 now. They feel
the world's no longer a safe place.

"They were big buildings and there were a lot of people in them and people are
starting to personalise it."

It's a point taken up by Phillip Hodson, a Fellow of the British Association for
Counselling and Psychotherapy.

He says that there was an immediate, almost instant response. And now there's a
second wave that's often more deeply felt than the original reactions.

"The reactions we are getting come from people who have experienced trauma in
the past - sometimes they've not spoken of it before - and think that now is the
time to talk about it.

"But there's also what we call general anxiety, a raising of anxiety levels
because people are starting to think that the world isn't all that safe after
all, " he says.

The idea that we could enjoy relative security in our daily lives collapsed with
a great deal of other preconceptions on September 11.

The fact that well-known people won't fly does nothing to lift the general mood.

Glamorgan cricketer Robert Croft's decision to back out of the England tour to
India amid worries of violent overspill from Afghanistan was widely attacked by
the critics.

But there are plenty that understand.

And while there's been no violence on tour so far, who is to say there won't be.

There's two more Tests to go, after all.

It's this uncertainty, fear about personal safety, fear about job security in a
recession, fear that Osama bin Laden might have access to nuclear weapons that
heightens anxiety, says Mr Hodson.

"On the afternoon of September 11 my 3pm client rang up and asked me whether I
still wanted to do the session, " he said.

"My 4.30pm client and I spent the first 45 minutes talking about what we'd seen
on the television before we even got on to anything about him."

Since then about a quarter of his client sessions had been about September 11
and its aftermath.

"What's changed is the way people feel about their safety, " he says.

"We are being warned there could be an atrocity on December 12, that there was a
plot to bomb London in September and bin Laden might have access to what they
call a nuclear 'dirty' bomb that could affect millions of people, " says Mr
Hodson.

Especially in the wake of the anthrax attacks in America - something the experts
predicted was not possible - people feel less safe, he said.

Mr Hodson says those images of the plane crashing into the southern trade tower
and broadcast live around the world, was the first disaster that could be truly
described as a world event.

Perhaps it was. But that shared experience might have been the biggest of its
kind, it was not the first.

Psychologists who investigated the aftermath of other events like the bombing
and the death of Diana said the response was more or less predictable.

Even if it all came to an end tomorrow with the surrender of Osama bin Laden and
every other terrorist, the fallout and the nervous anticipation of what may
happen next, would be substantial.

Forensic psychiatrist Andrew Silk studied the aftermath of the Oklahoma bombing
in which more than 160 men, women and children died.

"We found an awful lot of people suffering from post-traumatic stress disorder,
" said Prof Silk of Leicester University.

"Even people in the Oklahoma region who didn't lose anybody in the bombing were
suffering.

"One of the reasons behind this was the media coverage. It was exhaustive,
pictures 24 hours a day of the building and bodies being pulled out."

But he said that it was not always the case that there would be a surge in
referrals.

Psychiatrists in Northern Ireland reported a decrease in the wake of the IRA
Enniskillen bombing.

"Some of the people going regularly stopped going, " he says. "They were maybe
looking at their own troubles and putting them in another context, comparing
them with what other people were going through."

Further evidence that human disasters endlessly trawled over on television can
affect people not personally involved comes from suicide figures following the
death of Diana in the Paris car crash.

Raj Persaud, a well-known TV personality on the daytime Richard and Judy show,
is also a psychiatric consultant at the Maudsley Hospital in south London.

"Suicide levels went up very significantly, by 17pc around the time of the
funeral compared with the same time the previous year, " he says.

Suicides among women went up the most and the greatest proportion were among
women of Diana's age, he said.

Dr Persaud says that the psychological effects of September 11 are likely to be
felt for longer than those of August 31 1997 because there has been no kind of
what the experts call closure.

"If the world's biggest superpower can't defend itself, our own sense of safety
becomes questioned."

How to deal with stress 1. Try to identify the feelings you may be experiencing
and understand they are a natural reaction to an abnormal situation.

2. Talk about it. Children especially need to articulate their feelings.

3. Remember that you have overcome stress in the past and try to put into action
coping mechanisms you found then.

4. You may wish to seek support from small groups of people who feel similarly.

5. Think positively. Things will get better.

6. Be honest with yourself. Be realistic about how long you may take to recover
and be ready for occasional setbacks.

7. Remember that there are experts who can help with counselling or medical
help.

8. Telephone numbers for your local Samaritans or Cruse, the bereavement
organisation, can be found in the phone book.

Americans feared another atrocity THE psychological fallout from September 11 is
probably being felt more keenly in the US than anywhere.

According to a series of running surveys carried out by the Pew Research Centre
in Washington, 71pc of Americans felt depressed in the immediate aftermath of
the attacks and a third of them had trouble sleeping.

That figure had gone down to 29pc and 12pc respectively a month later.

The poll taken again last month showed also that more than half of Americans
feared they personally would be a victim of terrorism and almost 70pc were
worried there would be another attack soon.

Understandably, people living in urban areas on the eastern seaboard of the
United States felt more anxiety about further attacks than anywhere else.

But Joe Bullock, head of the community services board in Arlington, the US
county which is home to the Pentagon, says he hasn't a clue how many people
might seek help over the coming months and years.

"There will be numbers, but I just can't find anything, " he told the US
magazine Mental Health Weekly.

But research by US Surgeon General David Satcher suggests that when the economic
impact begins to bite among workers who lose or fear they may lose their jobs,
up to 20pc of local people - 40,000 - could experience a traumatic stress
reaction, the magazine says.

Mr Satcher said, "A year after the Oklahoma City bombing there was a significant
increase in substance and spousal abuse, divorce and, yes, suicide among rescue
workers there."

Among all of the health support specialists sent to help after the bombing the
one person called back most often is the psychiatrist.

The US response to the mental health challenges has been very powerful.

Around $ 28m of federal funding has been dedicated specifically to dealing with
mental health problems in the areas of New York and Washington affected by the
disaster.

One of the most innovative projects is to canvass every home in the Arlington
area to research the long-term psychological effects of September that will help
planning for any future disasters.

LOAD-DATE: December 8, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: VIVID IMAGE: One aircraft has already smashed into the World Trade;
Centre and a second is about to fly into the other tower in New York on;
September 11 DISBELIEF: A woman grabs her mouth in horror when she learns of the
terrorist attacks at the World Trade Centre. Many who saw the incident are still
seeking counselling Five stars who flew after September; 11 Samuel L Jackson, to
Britain for a film premiere Sting, on Concorde's first flight to the US since
the Paris crash. Michael Douglas, for a pro-celebrity golf match in Scotland
Jennifer Lopez, on a promotional tour to the UK. Geri Halliwell, to The Gulf to
entertain the troops. Five stars who refused to fly after September 11 Bruce
Willis, to the London Film; Festival. Arnold Schwazeneggar, to Austria for an
honourary doctorate in his native country Destiny's Child, for a European Tour
Shaggy, reggae star and former soldier for a European tour. Tiger Woods, and
other members of the US Ryder Cup golf team STUNNED: Thousands gather for a
vigil in Texas to share their grief

                    Copyright 2001 Western Mail and Echo Ltd

                              155 of 251 DOCUMENTS

                                  Western Mail

                           December 8, 2001, Saturday

AIR PASSENGERS SWAPPING TO CHEAP AND CHEERFUL OPERATORS;
 TRAVEL: EASYJET PICKS UP TRADE LOST BY SOME OF THE BIGGER AIRLINES IN WAKE OF
TERROR ATTACKS

BYLINE: Abigail Townsend

SECTION: BUSINESS; Pg. 31

LENGTH: 355 words


NO frills airline EasyJet reported a surge in passengers despite the US terror
attacks and slumping global economy keeping people at home.

EasyJet flew 690,928 passengers during November, a slide of 25,089 on the
previous month but a 38.5pc jump on the year before.

And its load factor - which represents passengers as a proportion of seats
available - was 85.2pc, up on the previous month and on November 2000.

The update comes just days after high-end carrier British Airways reported a
17.8pc slump in passenger traffic during November, which it attributed to
"challenging" trading conditions. But while larger carriers have been hit hard
by the economic fallout following September 11, budget airlines had a better
time of it.

Last month, EasyJet rival Ryanair reported a 30pc hike in first-half profits and
EasyJet's shares have flown ahead over recent weeks.

Since September 24, EasyJet's stock has soared 49pc. Yesterday shares closed at
488 1/2p, giving the Luton-based group a value of pounds 1.43 bn.

EasyJet also said the number of tickets sold over the internet was on the up.

During November, 90.1pc of sales were done online, a marginal slip on last
month's figure of 90.2pc but up on November 2000's figure of 79.4pc.

The 690,928 passengers that flew with EasyJet last month brought the rolling
total for the 12 months to November 30 to 7,484,788.

Also publishing traffic data yesterday was fellow no-frills airline Go Fly, the
former British Airwaysowned group that flies under the brand Go.

During November 357,327 passengers flew with Go, which was sold by BA earlier
this year, a 63.3pc hike on the previous year.

The number of kilometres flown - measured in available seat kilometres - also
rose, by 24.6pc to 380.4m.

A spokeswoman said, "The airline is growing extremely fast so it had the
capacity to capitalise when people like BA reduced their routes.

"We have been about to take advantage of the current climate."

Passenger numbers fell by 39,987 compared to October's figure of 397,314, but
the spokeswoman said this was an expected seasonal change.

LOAD-DATE: December 8, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                    Copyright 2001 Western Mail and Echo Ltd

                              156 of 251 DOCUMENTS

                                   The People

                            December 9, 2001, Sunday

OMAGH: THE COVER-UP;
 COPS WERE WARNED OF TERROR ATTACK ON OMAGH, TIP-OFF DISAPPEARED FROM RUC'S
COMPUTER MAIN SUSPECT NEVER QUESTIONED, RONNIE DENIALS MISLED PUBLIC, BOMBER WAS
POLICE AGENT

BYLINE: Greg Harkin Journalist Of The Year

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 1163 words

HIGHLIGHT: AVOIDABLE CARNAGE?: PSNI Chief Constable Sir Ronnie Flanagan will be
shocked by new allegations that reveal his officers attempted to cover up
warnings about the Omagh bomb which killed 29 people on August 15, 1998;; HOW
YOUR SUNDAY PEOPLE BROKE THE STORY


PSNI Chief Constable Sir Ronnie Flanagan will be devastated today over shock new
allegations about the Omagh bomb which reveal his officers tried to COVER UP the
warnings about the device.

And a senior cop even telephoned another officer who had confirmed one of the
warnings to rebuke him over a conversation he had with a security force agent.

Twenty-nine people and unborn twins died in the carnage at Omagh on Saturday,
August 15 1998.

Now devastating new information passed to this newspaper about the atrocity
shows RUC Special Branch had at least TWO warnings about a bomb in the days
before the blast - but evidence of those warnings 'disappeared' from police
computers.

And, incredibly, one of them named OMAGH as the town that would be targeted.

Northern Ireland's Police Ombudsman Nuala O'Loan launched an inquiry in August
after Sunday People revealed details of another warning passed to police.

Her office was refusing point blank to comment yesterday.

But senior sources within the Police Service have contacted Sunday People to
lift the lid on some of the amazing revelations.

Revelations

The officers are furious that a series of cock-ups, cover-ups and blatant lies
by some discredit the entire force.

These new revelations include:

Confirmation that an agent calling himself Kevin Fulton DID warn his handler of
a bomb-maker known as Mike who was making a device three days before the
bombing.

Fulton's warning WAS entered into the RUC computer

That warning later 'disappeared' from police files. It was not removed by
Fulton's handler

Fulton had provided vital information about the Banbridge bomb the month before

Fulton later taped a telephone conversation with his handler in which the
handler CONFIRMED he had received a warning about a bomb being prepared south of
the Border

A second anonymous person contacted police on August 4 giving specific
information about a planned terrorist attack in Omagh on August 15.

This information was NEVER passed to officers in Omagh

RUC officers FAILED to properly investigate the bombing after the devastating
attack

Mike was, inexplicably, NEVER questioned or treated as a suspect and today
remains at large

Information on the warnings was DELETED from police records as part of a Special
Branch cover-up

A call WAS made from a mobile phone used by one of the Omagh bombers to Mike on
the day bomb went off. Again this was never investigated.

Special Branch deliberately thwarted a proper inquiry into those who bombed
Omagh.

Senior RUC officer Brian McVicar carried out the force's own internal
investigation which is described as 'damning'. He came under pressure to re
-write the report.

When another senior officer discovered Fulton had taped his handler confirming
the warning, he contacted the handler and called him a 'stupid c***.'

The car used by the bombers later went 'missing' and was only found two years
later in a forensic science car park

The Ombudsman will describe that as 'inexplicable' but will not draw any
conclusions.

n Sunday People believes that Mike is a security force agent and that his
information was not acted upon in order to save his role inside the Real IRA.

The revelations will stun Sir Ronnie who point blank denied that there were ANY
warnings about bombs being made south of the Border in the days before Omagh.

But it will also stun some unionists who had denounced the Ombudsman's inquiry -
for it is clear that senior cops failed to investigate prime suspect Mike.

Sunday People believes that Mike's position as an agent may explain why details
about a call made from a mobile phone used by the bombers on the day of the
blast to Mike's mobile phone were never passed on to the BBC Panorama team for
its programme 'Who bombed Omagh?'

Cops who cooperated with the programme did not want to expose their secret
agent, we believe.

In a letter to Sunday People's London editor Neil Wallis on July 29 this year -
the day of our allegations - the Chief Constable, through a media advisor,
stated: "Retrospective information he (Kevin Fulton) gave to the RUC about Omagh
was checked and found to be without any foundation whatsoever."

The letter, which was marked 'Not For Publication', was sent to relatives of
those who died in the bombing.

It also, mysteriously, later appeared in full in the Daily Telegraph.

Sources have confirmed that Fulton's information was NOT retrospective as Sir
Ronnie claimed.

Those sources also say the RUC FAILED to check those claims.

And when they were finally checked after our story they were found to be TRUE.

The letter went on: "Your publication can only have caused further untold and
needless distress to the victims of this terrible atrocity who have already
suffered and continue to suffer so much."

Sunday People contacted representatives of the Omagh families the day before
publication.

They welcomed our investigation and the subsequent investigation by the
Ombudsman.

Asked to comment yesterday, a spokesman for Nuala O'Loan would only say: "We
have no comment to make whatsoever on this matter.

"No comment will be made until families have been informed later next week."

But serving police officers were willing to talk about the new revelations to
Sunday People.

One officer told us: "Everyone at HQ knows about the letter Sir Ronnie sent to
Sunday People and the fact is that elements of it are inaccurate.

"Perhaps he was being misled by others but it is now clear there were at least
two warnings, one from an informer and one anonymous.

"The informer didn't know where the bomb was going to be planted. The anonymous
caller knew exactly where it was going and on what date.

"This is gross incompetence at the very least.

"For these warnings to then disappear off the police computer is just
incredible.

"Someone didn't want anyone to know.

"The most incredible thing of all however is this - our commanders are saying
that Mike is not and never has been a security force agent.

"Why then, considering his murderous record in the Provisional IRA and then the
Real IRA was he never treated as a suspect for the Omagh bomb?

"He was covered in residue from bomb-making three days before the bomb and one
of those who drove the device to Omagh called him on his mobile after the bomb
went off.

"It's just incredible."

Sunday People replied to Sir Ronnie's letter pointing out the inaccuracies.

We are still waiting on a response.

You can help bring the Omagh bombers to justice by supporting the families' bid
to bring a civil action against them. It costs pounds 1 million to fund a civil
action and so far the families have raised pounds 270,000.

Donations can be made to any Bank of Ireland branch using sort code 905002 and
account number 30790971.

Credit card donations can be made by calling UK - 0870 907 2000 or RoI - 0044
870 907 2000.

LOAD-DATE: December 9, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

                            Copyright 2001 MGN Ltd.

                              157 of 251 DOCUMENTS

                                   The People

                            December 9, 2001, Sunday

BLUNKETT IN TERROR LAW TORY ATTACK

BYLINE: Vincent Moss

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 138 words


HOME Secretary David Blunkett last night angrily accused Tories of trying to
wreck his new laws to crack down on terrorists.

In an exclusive article for the Sunday People, Mr Blunkett accused Tory peers of
trying to sabotage his plans to have new anti-terror laws in place by Christmas.

And he fired off an angry letter to Tory leader Iain Duncan Smith in a
determined effort to force through the clampdown.

He said: "What I cannot allow is the systematic wrecking of substantial and
important measures which will ensure Britain can combat the threat of
international terrorism."

MPs may vote through the night this week as the Bill ping-pongs between Commons
and Lords.

Tony Blair insisted he'd do "whatever it takes" to ensure the proposals became
law as soon as possible.

Blunkett's battle: Page 8

LOAD-DATE: December 9, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

                            Copyright 2001 MGN Ltd.

                              158 of 251 DOCUMENTS

                                 Sunday Express

                                December 9, 2001

COMMONS FACES NEW SECURITY CRACKDOWN AS MPS FEAR HOUSE IS WIDE OPEN TO SUICIDE
ATTACKS; HOW TERRORISTS COULD SO EASILY HAVE PUT A BOMB UNDER THE PM'S WINDOW

BYLINE: By Tim Shipman DEPUTY POLITICAL EDITOR

SECTION: NEWS; Pg.  11

LENGTH: 1095 words


THE House of Commons is to get a massive security revamp amid police fury that
repeated blundering has left Tony Blair's office open to a devastating terrorist
attack.

More than GBP 2million will be spent overhauling the Commons' defences for the
second time in two months after precautions taken since September 11 were
dismissed as inadequate.

Twenty-two years after Tory MP Airey Neave was blown up by a car bomb in the
Commons car park, taxis can still drive up to a spot beneath the Prime
Minister's windows before they face a security check.

Details of the crackdown emerged as Home Secretary David Blunkett warned that
intelligence information shows that Britain is at risk of terror attacks over
Christmas and New Year.

MPs are also worried that the Palace of Westminster is powerless to prevent a
kamikaze attack from the air after a suspected cohort of Osama Bin Laden told
investigators in India that he was planning to launch a suicide attack on
Parliament.

RAF fighters are on round-the-clock alert to shoot down hijacked airliners, but
some members are convinced Tornado F3 interceptors based in the Home Counties
would not be able to react quickly enough to save them from destruction.

Now senior officers in the Metropolitan Police are angry that it has taken so
long to persuade parliamentary officials to treat the terrorist threat on the
ground with the gravity it deserves.

Taxis still get almost unrestricted access to New Palace Yard, the courtyard in
front of Big Ben's bell tower which is the main entrance used by MPs and other
Commons staff. And the inspection pit police use to look for bombs under cars is
located directly beneath the Prime Minister's Commons office.

A police source told the Sunday Express: "What's the point in having it there?
If you let cars get that far before you search them, you might as well not
bother searching them. It's right by Blair's office and no one is going to get
him to move."

The source said police stationed at the Commons were "seriously frustrated" that
it has taken so long for parliamentary officials to "take things seriously."

But now plans are in place to rip up trees in New Palace Yard to make way for a
permanent police security post with a car inspection pit away from the
buildings. And concrete anti-terrorist barriers hastily constructed after
September 11 are to be moved to create a fully operating one-way system at
Carriage Gates, where ministerial cars enter the yard.

Work will begin after MPs return to their constituencies for the Christmas
recess, but it will not be complete for months.

Muir Morton, Deputy Serjeant at Arms with responsibility for security, fiercely
denied that there was tension with the police. He said: "The security service,
the police and ourselves are all acting together on this.

"The arrangements in New Palace Yard are temporary. We are planning permanent
fixtures that will stop someone getting straight to the front door without being
checked."

He said the delay was due to the need for the changes to blend in with the
"character" of the Commons.

But a Labour MP said Commons security chiefs were better at responding to old
threats than new ones. "In 1812, the Prime Minister was assassinated in members
lobby so members of the public are barred from there, " he said, "but anyone in
a suit carrying some important looking papers can wander around in much of the
rest of the House today."

Mr Morton denied there was a serious security risk from members of the public
entering the Houses of Parliament. He said: "They have to stay on a pre-agreed
route. We're just trying to be a bit more careful to make sure they don't stray
from it."

He said a proposal to move metal detectors for the public outside the walls of
Parliament into a separate external building were "still under consideration."

Others voiced doubts that the security arrangements could ever be completely
effective.

One said: "The only way to stop the really large risks, like a nuclear attack,
would be to make sure they don't occur in the first place, but if you flew a
plane into the Commons during Prime Minister's Question Time on a Wednesday you
could wipe out everybody in one go. Apart from Canary Wharf, Parliament is the
most obvious target in Britain." MPs have been told that everything is being
done to ensure they are protected from copycat suicide hijackers. In the weeks
after September 11, the Commons Defence Select Committee took evidence from
Ministry of Defence experts about Britain's preparedness and the possibility of
an assault against the Commons from the skies.

One MP who heard the evidence said it made many cynical. "They spent more time
talking through the contingency plans to form an administration if we are all
wiped out, " the MP said.

"When we're dead they've got something to take over. That's not much good to
me."

But Labour MP Syd Rapson, who sits on the committee, said he was encouraged by
evidence heard behind closed doors in which intelligence insiders made a
persuasive case that they could prevent a hijacking happening in the first
place.

"They're switched on to avoid the threat in the first place, " he said. "Our
airport security is better than America's. We have the ability to stop them
getting in a plane in the first place. I have a strong sense that everything
possible that can be done is being done."

The last time Britain faced such a concerted threat to the Houses of Parliament
from the air, during the Second World War, MPs formed their own detachment of
the Home Guard and conducted fire patrols during the Blitz on London.

This time around a raft of extra precautions have been taken. In recent weeks
Diplomatic Protection Squad police armed with Glock 9mm weapons have begun
patrolling Parliament for the first time.

BOSSES at one of the country's busiest airports last night denied that shedding
up to 200 security jobs would lay it open to terrorist attack.

The jobs will go at Manchester Airport despite protests from trade unions who
claim the cuts will undermine security at the airport which handles 19million
passengers a year.

The cost-cutting redundancies come when passenger confidence is at an alltime
low and many airlines are in financial difficulties following the terrorist
attacks on America.

David McCall, regional secretary of the TGWU, said the airport should be
increasing security staff, not reducing them. He added: "It is simply
unbelievable they should be cutting back on security at this time."

LOAD-DATE: January 7, 2002

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Newspaper

                       Copyright 2001 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS

                              159 of 251 DOCUMENTS

                     Belfast News Letter (Northern Ireland)

                           December 10, 2001, Monday

WAR ON TERROR: AMERICAN SPIES FIND VIDEO PROOF OSAMA BEHIND US TERROR ATTACKS

BYLINE: Hugh Dougherty In New York

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 406 words

HIGHLIGHT: TAPED: Osama bin Laden


AMERICAN spies have obtained a tape of Osama bin Laden saying he had not
expected the World Trade Centre to collapse, it was revealed yesterday.

Intelligence agents obtained the tape during a search of a private house in
Jalalabad after it was abandoned by the Taliban and senior officials are now
debating whether to release the tape.

It is the first direct evidence of bin Laden's involvement in the September 11
attacks.

The 40-minute tape has been sent to outside experts to make sure it was not a
fake, and has been declared "legitimate", a senior official told the Washington
Post.

On the tape, which was apparently shot by an amateur, bin Laden praised God for
a "success" he had not expected, the newspaper reported.

He said that he was having dinner when the first news that a plane had crashed
into one of the towers of the World Trade Centre broke. He said that he told
others at the dinner of the news, prompting a cheer, and he then told them more
attacks were coming. The terror mastermind then used his outstretched hands to
explain that he expected the top of the towers to collapse, to the point where
the hijacked planes struck.

The eventual total collapse of both towers, the al Qaida leader said, was
totally unexpected, officials told the Washington Post.

A senior official said: "It is very clear that bin Laden not only had advance
knowledge, but the video is proof he was responsible for planning."

Intelligence officials are unsure why the tape was made, but al Qaida has used
videos featuring bin Laden for recruiting purposes in the past.

The video is a different one from the tape PM Tony Blair told the Commons about
on October 20. Mr Blair said the video, of which he had seen a transcript,
showed an interviewer asking bin Laden about the September 11 attacks. The Prime
Minister told MPs that the al Qaida leader replied: "It is what we instigated,
for a while, in self defence. And it was revenge for our people killed in
Palestine and Iraq."

White House chiefs are now trying to find a way to release the tape to the Arab
world to convince them that bin Laden was guilty of the September 11 attacks.

Bin Laden has denied having any role in the attacks. He told the Afghan Islamic
Press: "I have taken an oath of allegiance to Mullah Omar which does not allow
me to do such things from Afghanistan. We have been blamed in the past, but we
were not involved."

LOAD-DATE: January 9, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

                   Copyright 2001 Century Newspapers Limited

                              160 of 251 DOCUMENTS

                            Birmingham Evening Mail

                           December 10, 2001, Monday

LIFE: IT'S TIME TO TACKLE TERROR;
 COUNSELLING: MILLIONS OF PEOPLE HAVE BEEN LEFT TRAUMATISED BY THE TERRORIST
ATTACKS IN NEW YORK ON SEPTEMBER 11. ONE WOMAN IN BIRMINGHAM IS USING HER
COUNSELLING SKILLS AND HER COMPUTER TO HELP SOME OF THEM. DIANE PARKES REPORTS.

BYLINE: Diane Parkes HELP IS AT HAND: Sharon Hinsull offers online counselling
to people left traumatised by the attacks; n HEARTACHE: Two women watch in
horror as the twin towers of the New York World Trade Center come tumbling down
on; September 11

SECTION: FEATURES; Pg. 24,25

LENGTH: 871 words


MARY* went to work each day on the subway, crossing the Brooklyn Bridge and
entering her office in Manhattan without a second thought. But one day changed
all that.

When she saw the pictures of the devastated World Trade Center and heard the
eyewitness accounts, her sense of security was stolen from her.

As the days and weeks passed she found leaving her home and getting on the
subway train more and more difficult. She could no longer depend on reaching her
office in safety and feared the bridge could be another target.

Her life was gradually taken over by this fear until she was afraid not just to
go to work but to step outside of the relative security of her own home. As Mary
succumbed to agoraphobia all her certainties were being swept away.

But Mary found help through her computer screen when she discovered a website
which offered her free online counselling from a woman in Edgbaston.

While Mary poured her heart out on her keyboard, trained counsellor Sharon
Hinsull was able to point her in the direction of help.

Sharon was already offering online counselling before the events of September
11. And when she saw the aftermath of the terrorist attacks she knew she wanted
to use her skills to help.

"I wanted to go over there and offer counselling to people face-to-face but all
the aid agencies already had these systems in place," she says.

"I have been counselling for six years and know howessential it can be at a time
like that and felt there would be people who still needed to be reached.

"I already had the online counselling service and thought about how I could
extend that to cater to a need specific for the American attacks. It took a
couple of weeks to get it up and running because I needed to make sure I had
everything there that people could need and that meant researching what other
services were available.

"Once I had compiled a register of sources of emotional and psychological
support which people could access I was ready. I wanted it to be free so that
everyone who needed it could use it."

Sharon holds a diploma in counselling and works part time at High Spirits
Healing Centre in Kings Norton. She is also a receptionist at Heart FM radio
station but has now given up hours of her spare time to providing free
counselling to people traumatised by the attacks and their aftermath.

She initially advertised her site on chat and message boards which had been set
up to help victims and their families and was receiving messages within days.

"To begin with the clients I was hearing from were predominantly people who had
been directly affected by the World Trade Center attacks," she recalls. "Those
who had immediate family who had been killed were being supported by services on
the ground but there were others who were perhaps slightly removed and had
slipped through the net.

"While the large companies had counselling on offer, some of those who contacted
me were sole traders who had lost their livelihoods or were worried about
returning to the area. Some were people who had lost loved ones and did not know
who to speak to about it.

"They were people who perhaps were a little removed, they had lost more distant
relatives or friends and felt they could not access the counselling that was
being provided as other people needed it more.

"There were an awful lot of people who just felt they had lost their safety net
for life. The attacks had shaken their security and they didn't know where to
turn."

Sharon is not pretending her website and counselling can replace face-to-face
interaction and in many cases her role has simply been to point people in the
direction of where help is available to them locally. But the numbers of people
who have turned to her shows there is a need.

"As time has progressed the sort of people I am speaking to has changed. Many
are people who were not directly affected by the events but they had nonetheless
affected their lives.

"It is as if the effects are spreading ever wider. While the majority of people
are from New York, there are also many from other parts of America and England
who have been made afraid by what has happened.

"With the anthrax threats and the second plane crash in New York, people no
longer feel safe. And many of them are showing the classic symptoms of post
-traumatic stress disorder sleep disorder, anxiety and depression."

Such was the case with Mary. Once her sense of security had been dented it
affected other aspects of her life. Feeling she had lost control of her life she
could no longer face the world outside. But Sharon was able to provide her with
some help.

"A case like that is too big to be dealt with online," says Sharon. "But you can
offer palliative assistance and urge them to go to the right place for more
direct help. It is a case of letting them know they do have a genuine problem
and can receive help for it.

"A lot of it is about reassuring people they are experiencing a totally normal
response to a set of abnormal circumstances.

"I wouldn't pretend this can replace a face-to-face relationship but in many
cases it is the spur which sets people on to access this face-to-face contact."

LOAD-DATE: December 11, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

               Copyright 2001 Midland Independent Newspapers plc

                              161 of 251 DOCUMENTS

                                  Daily Record

                           December 10, 2001, Monday

OPERATION VERITAS: OSAMA SUICIDE PACT;
 HE PLANS TO DIE ON TV AS A MARTYR HE WANTS HIS SONS TO SHOOT HIM DEATH 'WILL
TRIGGER NEW TERROR ATTACKS'

BYLINE: Jeremy Armstrong

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 8, 9

LENGTH: 862 words


OSAMA bin Laden is planning a dramatic TV suicide in front of millions of
viewers.

And he hopes his death will trigger a series of devastating terrorist attacks on
Britain and America.

The al-Qaeda leader's estranged wife, Sabiha, claims he will order his eldest
son to shoot him before the CIA or SAS can catch him.

He wants his death to be aired on Qatar-based al Jazeera TV as he bids to go
down in history as a Moslem martyr.

The "clear plan" for a spectacular suicide was outlined by Sabiha, 45, who has
at least three children by the terrorist mastermind, on Russian TV last night.

She said: "His elder sons will kill him and that will be the signal for a new
wave of terror.

"The targets this time would be the Capitol in Washington, Big Ben in London and
the Eiffel Tower in Paris".

Yesterday, the hunt continued for the al-Qaeda terrorist mastermind.

B52 bombers kept up a relentless wave of attacks on the area surrounding the
Tora Bora cave complex, where bin Laden is believed to be holed up.

Northern Alliance troops claimed to have seen him leading 1000 of his most loyal
fighters into the Spin Ghar forests after being flushed out of his hideaway.

Around 2500 Afghan fighters have now joined the search - desperate for the US $
25million bounty put on his head.

There were reports of squabbling amongst various tribal factions involved in the
hunt.

Alliance spokesman Mohammad Amin said: "Osama himself has taken command of the
fighting.

"He, along with around 1000 of his people, including some Taliban officials,
have now dug themselves into the forests of Spin Ghar after we overran all their
bases in Tora Bora."

Some locals reported seeing a tall figure in flowing white robes on horseback
galloping across the rugged Afghan terrain, prompting speculation it was bin
Laden, running from one cave hide-out to another.

But doubts remain over bin Laden's presence in the area. Some reports yesterday
claimed he was holed up near the southern city of Kandahar with Taliban leader
Mullah Omar.

Speaking by radio yesterday, one Arabic-speaking man, who claimed to be an al
-Qaeda fighter, insisted bin Laden was not in the Tora Bora area.

Tunisian Abu Abdullah, 27, said: "I swear by Allah that Osama is not present
here."

He said he and other fighters, including some with families, were living at the
nearby stronghold of Milawa, but sheltered in caves during air strikes.

When the bombing stops, they return to the surface and fire at opposing Afghan
tribes.

Anti-bin Laden leaders admit heavy aerial bombing alone will not dislodge the
al-Qaeda fighters from the complex, which is carved deep into the White
Mountains.

As the bombing waves continued yesterday, with strikes every 30 minutes, huge
plumes of smoke rose from the barren hills and ridges.

Hundreds of anti-Taliban fighters watched from several miles away as dust filled
mountain valleys.

Units from the SAS and the Special Boat Squadron are believed to be involved in
the battle raging around the cave complex.

Pakistani forces have now moved to seal off possible al-Qaeda escape routes on
their side of the border.

Alliance commander Hazrat Ali claimed local knowledge was the key to finishing
off al-Qaeda.

He said: "You could bomb day and night and it won't make a big difference.
Soldiers have to go in there."

The Northern Alliance suffered a blow at the weekend when a military helicopter
crashed in northern Afghanistan, killing 20 people, including two anti-Taliban
commanders.

Yesterday, new video evidence emerged of bin Laden's role in the September 11
attacks on the US.

In a 40-minute video tape obtained by the Pentagon, bin Laden described the
damage around the fallen twin towers in New York as "greater than expected" and
praised Allah for the greater success.

The tape was said to have been found in a private home in Jalalabad.

It later emerged that British forces will not hand over bin Laden to face the
death penalty in America.

Defence Secretary Geoff Hoon said Britain would need "certain undertakings" from
the US authorities if British troops captured the terrorist leader. But he said
it was right for bin Laden to stand trial in the USA.

Hoon admitted Britain was banned by the European Convention on Human Rights from
handing over suspects who might face death. Asked if Washington would have to
guarantee Bin Laden would not face execution, he said: "That is the position."

Hoon also stepped up pressure on the UN to authorise a British-led multi
-national force for Afghanistan.

Britain is ready to send 3000 troops to spearhead a force of up to 50,000.

Yesterday, bin Laden's mother spoke for the first time about her son's terrorist
links, saying she was not angry with him, just disappointed.

She told a Saudi newspaper: "I do not approve of his ambitions and the actions
attributed to him, but I am not angry with him.

"Like all mothers, I am satisfied and pleased with my son and pray to God to
guide him and save him."

Several members of his family, who run a multi-billion dollar construction
business, remain in Saudi Arabia.

LOAD-DATE: December 27, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

            Copyright 2001 Scottish Daily Record & Sunday Mail Ltd.

                              162 of 251 DOCUMENTS

                          THE DAILY TELEGRAPH(LONDON)

                           December 10, 2001, Monday

Terror Bill opponent attacked as snob

BYLINE: By Sarah Womack Political Correspondent

SECTION: Pg. 04

LENGTH: 325 words

DAVID Blunkett yesterday described a leading critic of his anti-terrorism Bill
in the Lords as a "patronising" snob.

The Home Secretary said Lord Ackner, a crossbencher and retired law lord, could
"try and patronise a working-class lad from a council estate" but he knew what
he was doing.

Mr Blunkett spoke in the wake of seven defeats inflicted by the Lords on the
Bill which is being rushed through Parliament following the September 11
terrorist attacks.

Labour MPs have been warned that they may have to sit all night on Thursday to
help to force through the proposed legislation.

Lord Ackner said Mr Blunkett's angry response to peers' opposition was "a rather
unintelligent approach to what are really very moderate amendments".

But Mr Blunkett accused Lord Ackner of class prejudice and repeated his warning
that Britain was at risk from the group which carried out the September 11
attacks. "I am not prepared to capitulate to sabotage," he added.

Lord Ackner, who has long been a thorn in the side of the Establishment, was
educated at Highgate School and Clare College, Cambridge.

Called to the Bar in 1945, he was a Lord Justice of Appeal from 1980 to 1986 and
a law lord from 1986 to 1992.

Mr Blunkett often refers to his upbringing on a council estate in Sheffield. He
attended schools for the blind in Sheffield and Shrewsbury, and Richmond Further
Education College, before studying at Sheffield University.

On Friday, he offered a compromise to try to meet objections over the removal of
judicial review and suggested a possible amendment to the proposal to outlaw
religious hatred.

Today, he offered a wholesale review of the laws within two years. In The Times,
he said he had decided to write such a concession into the Bill to meet concerns
over its "speed and complexity".

He said that a committee of Privy Counsellors would conduct a review and report
to Parliament with their findings.
[PS]News: [ES]

LOAD-DATE: December 10, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 2001 Telegraph Group Limited

                              163 of 251 DOCUMENTS

                          THE DAILY TELEGRAPH(LONDON)

                           December 10, 2001, Monday

Supposing bin Laden was Saddam's junior partner If Iraq was behind all the
recent terrorist attacks on the US, says Alan Judd, will Tony Blair brave the
inevitable bloody outcome?

BYLINE: By Alan Judd

SECTION: Pg. 18

LENGTH: 1307 words

The question over the role of Osama bin Laden and al-Qa'eda in the outrages of
September 11 is not whether to pursue them into other countries, in what
President Bush - to Downing Street's evident discomfort - frankly refers to as
Phase II of the anti-terrorist operation. The question, which may confront us
sooner than we think, is what if bin Laden and al-Qa'eda were not solely
responsible for what the Americans call "Nine Eleven"? What if bin Laden were
demonstrably the junior partner, not only in the September 11 attacks but in
others going back to 1993? If compelling evidence of this could be adduced, what
would follow?

Action against the senior partner, surely. If that senior partner could be shown
to be Saddam Hussein, that would mean a renewal of the war to topple him.
President Bush has not yet spelt this out in so many words, but he has said that
America will act against any nation sponsoring terrorism "across the world,
across the years". He has declared that any nation seeking weapons of mass
destruction as a terror weapon would be "held accountable" and has warned that
if Iraq continues refusing to admit UN weapons inspectors, it will face
unspecified consequences.

What would a new Iraqi war do to America's relations with Europe and the Middle
East? France and Germany, the usual suspects, are already wobbling. Saudi Arabia
would find itself between a rock and a hard place. As for the British Labour
Government, Jack Straw is quoted as having said in America that they would have
a problem with "250 bodies - on the Labour Party backbenches". Yet if the
evidence of Iraqi involvement is produced, how could America not react?

An important new book, War Against America by Laurie Mylroie, an American
journalist, academic and former presidential adviser, may prove the catalyst
that makes further action inevitable. Her thesis is that the key to September 11
may be found in the 1993 attempt to destroy the World Trade Centre. On that
occasion, a huge car bomb constructed of devastating liquid explosive and
containing poison gas was parked with the intention of toppling one tower on to
the other. Fortunately, most of the blast went downwards, causing a crater six
stories deep. It was a far more lethal operation than most people realise and it
occurred a few months into the Clinton administration.

From the start, that administration chose to treat it and the two foiled bombing
attempts that followed it - aimed at the United Nations, New York's Federal
Building and two New York City tunnels - as a law enforcement issue which could
be "resolved" by the conviction of some of those responsible. The investigation
took no account of wider implications - whether there was state support for the
bombers, whether there were intelligence and foreign policy implications,
whether it was in fact an act of war or a demonstration of individual hatred. It
was treated as an act by a self-supporting "loose network" of terrorists, a
highly convenient and fundamentally unquestioned assumption.

In fact, what the Clinton administration did was to invent a new form of
terrorism, an international terrorism supposedly unrelated to and unsupported by
hostile states. It was, claims Mylroie, Clinton's "first, and original, spin".
The story was spun in the way it was because that was the path of least
resistance; the alternative - accepting the evidence of Iraqi involvement -
would have entailed a serious and politically difficult response to a terrorist
state. This would not do for a president whose political success was founded
upon the avoidance, rather than the resolution, of difficulty. "The Clinton
White House," writes former CIA director Jim Woolsey, in his foreword to this
book, "had a propensity to start with the impression it wanted to create and
then work backward to the policy it followed and even the facts it sought". That
sounds familiar on this side of the Atlantic, too.

American legal and bureaucratic structures compounded the problem. Rule 6(e) of
the Federal Rules of Criminal Procedure enjoins Grand Jury secrecy, which means
that only those involved in the investigation and prosecution have full access
to all the evidence. Other government agencies, such as the CIA, the State
Department and the Pentagon, have no right of access to information arising from
criminal investigations, even where those proceedings concern matters of vital
national security. Thus, the full range of information was available only to
those whose only interest was the securing of convictions (they secured four),
while those whose interest was the investigation of causes and international
connections, and in assessing the likelihood of further outrages, were denied
it.

Mylroie realised this and, after the trials, did what American officials should
have done: she went through all the evidence in the investigation records, not
only that actually produced in court. The result was her earlier book, Study of
Revenge, of which this is a post-September 11 update. She makes a powerful case
for the involvement of Iraq in the 1993 bombing and in the foiled attempts -
including an airliner bombing plot that succeeded it. One pointer in her case -
by no means the only one - is that the principal bomber, the pseudonymous Ramzi
Yousef, used an Iraqi passport and had extensive Iraqi contacts. Abdul Rahman
Yasin, who helped mix chemicals for the bomb, was actually an Iraqi and is the
sole remaining fugitive - still at large, and in Baghdad. She makes a persuasive
case - only less powerful because there was no comparable investigation - for
Iraqi involvement in the bombings of Americans in Saudi Arabia in 1995 and 1996,
and in the Kenyan and Tanzanian American embassy massacres of 1998.

What her argument amounts to is that, by treating the WTC bombing and subsequent
terrorist acts as purely criminal issues, the Clinton administration left
Americans exposed to further terrorism by anyone who realised that, so long as
there was no obvious state involvement, there would be no retribution. It was,
in the words of one American ambassador, "the mistake of the century".

Does Mylroie's argument stand up? It seems that Saddam Hussein's smoking gun was
there on September 11. The bombers, like Osama bin Laden himself, had exactly
the connections with Iraqi intelligence and its Sudanese proxies that you would
expect if Saddam were their helpful but elusive big brother. Saddam has also
publicly said that he regards himself as in a state of lifelong war with
America, that he will support terrorism, that he will use chemical and
biological weapons (which, thanks to international pusillanimity, we may be sure
he has renewed since weapons inspections were suspended).

Although some of the coincidences quoted by Mylroie are probably just that, and
although she has no single, unanswerable killer fact to convince us, her book
undoubtedly establishes that there is a case to answer. International affairs,
unlike courts of law, are largely matters of judgment and probability; on the
evidence quoted here, she has those on her side.

If this American government comes to the same conclusion as Mylroie, it is most
unlikely to repeat Clintonian irresponsibility by ducking the evidence and
dodging the consequences. These will be serious and long-lasting, for the
Western world and the Middle East, but presentationally everything depends upon
whether that single, demonstrable and - above all - quotable killer fact can be
found. If it is, toppling Saddam Hussein has to be the political imperative of
any American government.

For others, it will mean hard choices of the sort that Tony Blair talks about
but rarely makes, a deal of international trouble and much bloodshed. Not
toppling him will mean more bombs in our cities, more anthrax and - one day -
nuclear terrorism.

LOAD-DATE: December 10, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 2001 Telegraph Group Limited

                              164 of 251 DOCUMENTS

                         The Evening Standard (London)

                               December 10, 2001

Lords' new attack on terror Bill

BYLINE: Ben Leapman

SECTION: Pg. 2

LENGTH: 268 words


PEERS are set to launch further attacks on the Government's proposed anti-terror
laws tonight despite a concession by ministers.

Home Secretary David Blunkett said he would water down the planned legislation
by ordering all measures to be re-examined after two years.

He claimed the U-turn was a sign of a "listening government".

The move is designed to placate critics who claim the Anti-Terrorism, Security
and Crime Bill is too draconian. Under the new plan, a committee of Privy
Councillors would review the Bill between 15 months and two years after it comes
into effect.

However, the climbdown appeared unlikely to win over hostile Tory and Liberal
Democrat peers who have threatened to block its passage.

For two weeks the Government has offered concessions, none of which has done
enough to meet the main concerns surrounding the Bill.

Conservatives have accused Mr Blunkett of using bully tactics, after he wrote to
Tory leader Iain Duncan Smith warning of "dangerous consequences" if the Bill is
delayed. Ministers say that they want the Bill passed this week so that police
can start to use the extra powers to deal with the terrorist threat after 11
September attacks.

MPs have been put on standby for an all-night Commons sitting on Thursday to
approve the measures.

However, if the Lords insists on opposing parts of the Bill then it could face
extended delays.

Prime Minister Tony Blair is expected to attend a summit of European Union
leaders in Laeken, Belgium, at the weekend and Downing Street is thought to want
the matter resolved before then.


LOAD-DATE: December 11, 2001

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                   Copyright 2001 Associated Newspapers Ltd.

                              165 of 251 DOCUMENTS

                     Belfast News Letter (Northern Ireland)

                           December 11, 2001, Tuesday

TWO CHILDREN DIE IN ISRAELI MISSILE ATTACK;
 EU TELLS ARAFAT TO DISMANTLE THE TERRORIST NETWORKS

SECTION: WORLD NEWS; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 434 words

HIGHLIGHT: HEAVY MESSAGE: an Israeli tank manoeuvres in the West Bank amid
warnings that Israeli strikes on Palestinian territories were likely to
intensify


ISRAELI helicopter mounted assassins killed two children in a missile attack
aimed at an Islamic Jihad leader yesterday.

The boys, aged three and 13, died when the missiles were fired at a Palestinian
car stopped at traffic lights in the West Bank town of Hebron.

One car took a direct hit and was charred and smoking. Two other vehicles were
struck by debris that shattered windows and windscreens.

Seven passengers and bystanders were wounded, including the apparent target of
the strike.

Dr Jamil Haslamoun at Ahli Hospital in Hebron identified those killed as 13
-year-old Shadi Arafi and three-year-old Burhan Himouni. Half the younger
child's head was missing, he said.

The younger boy, along with his father and an activist of the militant Islamic
Jihad group, Mohammed Ayoub Sidr, 26, were riding in the car that took the
direct missile hit. The two men, who are related by marriage, were seriously
wounded, hospital officials said.

The 13-year-old boy, Shadi Arafi, and his father, Ahmed, were passengers in a
taxi behind the car hit by the missile. "My son was next to me. I don't know
what happened. All I know is that I carried my son into the hospital," Arafi
said before breaking down in tears.

The Israeli military declined to comment.

The helicopter strike came a day after the Israeli security Cabinet reportedly
approved more military strikes against Palestinian targets.

Palestinian leader Yasser Arafat abandoned plans to attend this week's gathering
of the Organisation of the Islamic Conference in Qatar.

Arafat, who was to have left for Doha on Sunday night, feared Israel would not
allow him to return, said Palestinian officials.

European Union foreign ministers met Israeli Foreign Minister Shimon Peres and
top Palestinian negotiator Nabil Shaath yesterday in an effort to halt the
violence, but they held out little hope for progress.

In a toughening of its line on Palestinian attacks on Israel, the EU told Yasser
Arafat yesterday to dismantle "the terrorist networks" of the radical groups
Hamas and Islamic Jihad and appeal for an end to the violent uprising against
Israel.

"The following pledges must be given by the Palestinian Authority: the
dismantling of Hamas' and Islamic Jihad's terrorist networks, including the
arrest and prosecution of all suspects; a public appeal in Arabic for an end to
the armed intifada," said the statement from the EU in Brussels

The statement represented an unprecedented call from the EU, which is frequently
criticised by Israeli officials for taking a pro-Palestinian stance.

LOAD-DATE: December 11, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

                   Copyright 2001 Century Newspapers Limited

                              166 of 251 DOCUMENTS

                          THE DAILY TELEGRAPH(LONDON)

                           December 11, 2001, Tuesday

Saudi attacks Treasury over terrorist cash 'smear'

BYLINE: By Sean O'Neill

SECTION: Pg. 14

LENGTH: 364 words

A SAUDI millionaire accused of financing Osama bin Laden claimed yesterday that
the Treasury used "grossly inaccurate" information to smear his name and freeze
his assets.

Lawyers for Yassin Abdullah Kadi, 46, said the Government had disclosed to them
some of the intelligence material used to include his name on a list of
designated terrorist suspects with links to bin Laden's al-Qa'eda network.

Kadi has won a postponement of High Court proceedings he has brought to have the
order freezing his assets quashed while he studies the new information disclosed
to him by the Treasury.

It is understood the information disclosed to Kadi and his lawyers relates to
allegations that charities with which he was involved funded bin Laden and
Hamas, the Palestinian terror group.

The Daily Telegraph reported last week that Kadi, who lives in Jeddah, was named
in a 1998 money laundering case in America involving the alleged financing of
Hamas through an Islamic institute in Chicago.

He was alleged to have provided $820,000 for a property deal which was later
allegedly channelled to a Hamas operative to train and supply arms to terrorists
in Israel and the West Bank. Mr Kadi has denied sending the money to the US to
support Hamas.

Guy Martin, Kadi's solicitor, said his client had "expressed his incredulity at
the nature and the paucity of the information disclosed by HM Treasury and the
gross inaccuracies it contains".

Mr Martin said: "Mr Kadi is outraged that HM Treasury should on the basis of
this information have taken such a serious decision to include his name on the
list of persons whose assets are frozen, a decision which has drastic
consequences for his reputation and business.

"Mr Kadi is now at last able to use the information to seek the speedy removal
of his name from HM Treasury's list in the UK and lists in other jurisdictions."

Mr Martin added that his client would demonstrate "that at no time has he had
any link or connection whatsoever with terrorism nor has he supported in any way
Hamas, Osama bin Laden or al-Qa'eda or any other terrorist individual, group or
organisation as alleged".
[PS]News: [ES]

Fall of the Taliban:

LOAD-DATE: December 11, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 2001 Telegraph Group Limited

                              167 of 251 DOCUMENTS

                             The Guardian (London)

                               December 11, 2001

Comment & Analysis: Once lost, these freedoms will be impossible to restore:
Hugo Young: The terror threat is being used to attack civil rights here and in
the US

BYLINE: Hugo Young

SECTION: Guardian Leader Pages, Pg. 14

LENGTH: 1168 words


John Ashcroft, the US attorney general, is a politician of the ultra-hard right.
David Blunkett, the British home secretary, comes from the old Labour left. They
meet tomorrow, when Mr Ashcroft makes his first stop on a tour of coalition
nations designed to ensure they all understand what must be done, in the field
of law and justice, to defeat international terrorism. He may have some
difficult conversations. But his talk with Mr Blunkett should be easy.
Anglo-American relations now reach into zones of thinking about justice with a
ferocity that transcends the opposite origins of these two ministers. The
special relationship is not dead. It's alive and kicking the ass of all judges
and lawyers who ask a question about the anti- terrorism machine.

Ashcroft and Blunkett have in common, first, the tampering with due process.
They've instituted regimes that remove the rights of anyone whom the security
authorities merely suspect of aiding and abetting terrorism, a word both of them
are prepared to define widely. Ashcroft has already arrested 1,200 people,
though that number is unofficial since their names are nowhere collectively
available. Blunkett is pushing through parliament a power of detention without
trial, though in Britain the list of detainees will probably not be secret.

These ministers, secondly, share a similar attitude to critics. Ashcroft implied
last week that critics were traitors to US interests. "Your tactics only aid
terrorists," was his brutal verdict. Criticism, he told the Senate, "gives
ammunition to America's enemies and pause to America's friends". For his part,
Blunkett charged anyone who declined to let his anti-terrorism bill go through
on the nod with complicity in a terrorist attack at Christmas. Ashcroft may be
shameless, while Blunkett whinges about his responsibilities and moans defiantly
against a judge-critic for patronising him as "a working-class lad from a
council estate". But the effect is the same.

The British, here, are particularly bonded to their superior ally. Blunkett
wrote a piece yesterday defending his proposed regime on the grounds that "a
heightened level of risk comes with our military alliance with the US". In other
words, the UK is a special target, even though no threat has yet been
identified. Likewise, we say we are in the middle of "a public emergency
threatening the life of the nation". If we didn't say that, we could not justify
derogating from article 5 of the European convention on human rights. Yet the
life of this nation is palpably not threatened. There have been no terrorist
attacks here. Only by describing the September 11 attack on the US as somehow an
attack on the UK can this fiction be sustained. It would very likely not survive
a hearing in the European court.

In some respects, admittedly, Ashcroft goes further than Blunkett. He refused to
let the FBI check its records to see whether any of his 1,200 arrestees had
bought guns be fore September 11. That would have meant defying the gun lobby,
for which the private sanctity of this database is a cardinal adjunct to the
right to bear arms. There are some rights that even the terrorist threat cannot
be allowed to override. Ashcroft also persuaded President Bush to sign an
executive order creating military tribunals to try any non-US citizen suspected
of aiding terrorism. These will hold secret trials, under military officers,
without a defendant having the right either to see the evidence or appeal to a
civilian court.

The system envisaged by Blunkett isn't a great deal less ruthless. Here too the
suspect will not see the evidence, nor will the suspect's preferred lawyer be
trusted with confidential information. But the crunch similarity is in the
removal, by order, of judicial review from the commission that will supervise
detention without trial. Judicial review may only seldom be appropriate, and
even less frequently successful. The regular law poses many filters and tests
before occasionally finding against the state. But every minister and every
tribunal can make mistakes. There needs to be a backstop, in these overheated
and threat ening times. Yet the government is fighting, with a tenacity John
Ashcroft must admire, against keeping even that small protection open.

No other country in Europe feels the need to go this far in arranging for
detention without trial. No other country is seeking a special derogation from
the European convention, to deal with terrorism. Is Britain uniquely under
threat? Uniquely indifferent to the unfairness that may result from the
curtailment of due process? Or uniquely determined to show that the common law,
of which the US is the only other relevant exponent, can be readily manipulated
to override fundamental liberties?

There is one shaft of light in this dismal picture. The US Senate has not taken
Ashcroft's draconian despatch of civil rights lying down. Democrats have asked
some potent questions, determined to assert that general support for the
anti-terrorism campaign doesn't mean that all anxiety about the details should
be silenced. They don't like the tribunals. They're not prepared to yield
entirely to populist panic.

Here the Commons have been useless. They took 16 hours to carry all stages of a
126-clause measure that reaches beyond terrorism into wide breaches of personal
privacy, massive surveillance, and the wholly disconnected matter of incitement
to religious hatred. In a long record of shaming fealty to whips, never have so
many MPs showed such utter negligence towards so impressive a list of
fundamental principles.

The Lords, however, have become the Senate. Their debate is serious, their
resilience formidable and their morality alive. They don't oppose the anti-
terrorism campaign, but they want to keep it within sane limits. They
scrutinise, question and amend. So far they've voted, most importantly, to keep
judicial review and curb surveillance. They'll be extending the work this week.
They've also been important players on the joint committee on human rights,
whose chair, Jean Corston MP, also chair of the parliamentary Labour party, must
be exempted from the previous paragraph. With devastating sobriety, the
committee wrote two reports that dismantled most of the claims Blunkett has made
about reconciling his bill with the human rights convention.

Have these been influential? Fat chance. The home secretary thinks he reached
heights of generosity by promising a review of his measure after two years. It's
an empty proposal, though the Tories may fall for it. Once in place, the act
will be impossible to shift. Arguments from security are like that. There's
always another hypothesis to guard against. That's what justice ministers are in
office to assert. The hard rightist and once-soft old labourist are fellow
spirits, hungry for power in the name of a security that piously throws to the
jailers the freedom it's supposed to be defending.

h.young@guardian.co.uk


LOAD-DATE: December 11, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 2001 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              168 of 251 DOCUMENTS



                                   The Mirror

                           December 11, 2001, Tuesday

FIRSAT CRIED 'I'VE BEEN STABBED' ..THEN DIED IN A POOL OF BLOOD;
 COURT TOLD OF 'RACE ATTACK' TERROR

BYLINE: James Tait

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 489 words

HIGHLIGHT: TRAGIC: Firsat came to the UK to learn English; TEARS: Mazhar Dag
wept for nephew Firsat; KICKED: Stephan Herold yesterday


A TEENAGE asylum seeker yesterday told a murder trial how his friend died in a
pool of blood after crying out: "Oh my God. I've been stabbed."

Turk Erkan Ayyildiz, 16, said tragic Firsat Dag, 25, slumped to the ground after
the alleged attack near their home in Sighthill, Glasgow.

Yesterday, through an interpreter, he told the High Court in Glasgow, how he and
Mr Dag were confronted by two Scotsmen on their way home from the city centre
last August.

Mr Ayyildiz said: "They were shouting. They ran after us.

"Firsat stopped and I stopped as well. One man stayed quite far from us but the
other came very close.

"He came close to Firsat, face to face and said: 'Who are you?'"

Mr Ayyildiz said the man made a punching motion at Mr Dag's chest. Making a
gesture of striking a blow, Mr Ayyildiz went on: "Then he turned to Firsat like
that.

"I didn't see anything in his hand. I thought it was a punch. Then Firsat went
backwards. I told him: 'Let's run'.

"They came after us. They were shouting: 'F******* come here'.

Firsat was hobbling, then he said: 'Oh my God. I've been stabbed.' I saw there
was blood."

He said Mr Dag stumbled two or three times as they ran and was holding his upper
chest.

He said when they reached a bus stop Mr Dag could go no further. Mr Ayyildiz
said: "He was on the floor.

"He was trying to move. He was saying he was in pain, very great pain. There was
blood on the ground."

He said he then called an ambulance on his mobile phone. Mr Dag, who was also
Turkish, later died.

Earlier, Mr Dag's uncle, Mazhar Dag, wept as he told how Firsat had come to the
UK to learn English and help another uncle who had business contacts here.

Wiping tears from his face, Mr Dag, 41 said: "I trust in justice. He was killed
once. Hopefully, he will not be killed twice in terms of justice."

Scott Burrell, 26, denies murdering Mr Dag in a racially-motivated attack. He
has lodged a special defence of incrimination, blaming Martin Gould, of
Balornock, Glasgow.

He also denies the attempted murder of German Stephan Herold, while acting with
another person, in Glasgow, in August.

Mr Herold yesterday told the court how he was dragged screaming by two men down
a small embankment into bushes.

Mr Herold, who now works in an export business in Thailand, said: "They were
kicking and hitting me and I was shouting, 'what do you want from me? I am a
tourist. I don't have money.'

"They attacked me again and again, kicking me everywhere on my body, tummy, legs
and face.

"I got the feeling I was to die. I fought back."

He said he did not realise he had been stabbed in the stomach until he reached
the city's Royal Infirmary.

Three weeks later he picked out Burrell in a police line up as being one of his
attackers.

Burrell also denies assaulting Barzan Amini on March 13 this year along with
Graham Mills, 29.

The trial continues.

LOAD-DATE: December 11, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                            Copyright 2001 MGN Ltd.

                              169 of 251 DOCUMENTS

                              The Herald (Glasgow)

                               December 12, 2001

US brings its first charges over terror attacks

BYLINE: Aine Harrington

SECTION: Pg. 1

LENGTH: 353 words


AN alleged al Qaeda terrorist yesterday became the first person on charges
directly involving the September 11 terror attacks. If found guilty, he could
face the death penalty.

Habib Zacarias Moussaoui, 33, was charged by a US grand jury on six counts of
conspiracy, including conspiring to kill Americans, using weapons of mass
destruction and committing aircraft piracy. The French citizen of Moroccan
descent lived in London until almost a year ago, before going to the US for
flight training.

The charges came exactly three months after the attacks on the World Trade
Centre in New York and the Pentagon in Washington, as people around the world
were asked by George W Bush, the US president, to hold a moment's silence at the
exact time the first plane hit.

Mr Moussaoui, who has maintained his innocence, was also charged with having the
same training, funding and intentions as the 19 hijackers who died in the
suicide attacks which killed more than 3000 people.

He was also named as being involved with Osama bin Laden, the man suspected of
masterminding the attack, and his top lieutenants in the conspiracy and was
alleged to be a member of al Qaeda, the alleged terrorist group.

The accused was initially arrested in Minnesota on August 16 on immigration
violations after he aroused suspicion by trying to buy time on a jumbo jet
flight simulator at a flying school. After September 11, he was arrested as a
material witness and sent to New York for questioning.

The 30-page indictment does not claim that Moussaoui was the 20th hijacker, but
names the 19 dead men as "unindicted co-conspirators". Along with bin Laden,
other co-conspirators are named as Ayman al-Zawahiri, head of Egyptian Islamic
Jihad and his top deputy, and a series of other al Qaeda leaders.

Meanwhile, in Afghanistan, tribal fighters overran some cave and tunnel
complexes in the suspected refuge of bin Laden and gave al Qaeda fighters an
ultimatum to surrender or face annihilation. There was no word if bin Laden was
among them.

US troops also entered some of the caves in the Tora Bora area.

LOAD-DATE: December 12, 2001

LANGUAGE: English

GRAPHIC: MOUSSAOUI: accused by US

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                Copyright 2001 Scottish Media Newspapers Limited

                              170 of 251 DOCUMENTS



                               Construction News

                           December 13, 2001 Thursday

Mitie powers through hesitant times after US terrorist attacks

SECTION: ARTICLE; Other; News

LENGTH: 204  words



HIGHLIGHT: Finance


CLIENTS are 'increasingly hesitant' to confirm orders for building services in
certain sectors since the terrorist attacks in the US in September, according to
support services group Mitie.

Sales also dipped temporarily at Mitie's powered access division but the firm
insists forward orders have not been affected.

Chairman David Telling said:

'The board remains confident that the company looks set for another good year.'

Mitie's building services division operates on lower margins than the support
services arm but has started to provide the greater amount of the group's
profits for the first time.

In the six months to September 30, pre-tax profits at the building services arm
shot up 37 per cent to £7.3 million from £5.3 million a year ago.

Turnover rose 25 per cent to £143.5 million compared to £114 million in the
first half of the previous financial year.

This pushed up margins 0.4 per cent to 5.1 per cent at the building services
division, which has clients ranging from BT to Cornwall County Council.

At the support services arm, pre-tax profits rose 22 per cent to £6.7 million
against £5.5 million in 2001.

Turnover rose to £98 million from £85 million a year ago, raising margins to 6.9
per cent from 6.5 per cent.

LOAD-DATE: December 13, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Magazine

JOURNAL-CODE: Construction News


                            Copyright 2001 Emap Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                              171 of 251 DOCUMENTS

                           Coventry Evening Telegraph

                          December 13, 2001, Thursday

SONGS FROM SON OF TERRORIST ATTACK VICTIM FAMILY ALBUM: Rob and Jean Halligan
with their children Nikita and; David with Rob's father Robert (centre)

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 17

LENGTH: 213 words


A CONCERT organised by a Coventry musician whose father died in the New York
terrorist attacks is being held to help Afghan refugees.

The charity gig, called Electric Raiser, features four bands and takes place at
Butts Technical College Theatre, in Coventry, on January 12.

Rob Halligan, who will be performing on the night, said: "It's four hours of
storming music from four quality live bands.

"It's taken a lot of organising and we've never done anything like this before,
so we'd like to sell out."

Rob's father, Robert Halligan, aged 59, an insurance broker, was working in the
World Trade Centre when the catastrophe happened on September 11.

After seeing at first-hand the rubble left by the attacks, the singer, aged 31,
of Holbrooks, Coventry, wrote some new material which he will be performing at
the event, which starts at 6.30pm. He will be playing with Nexus, alongside
fellow local bands Purple Gang, Myst - who have supported TopLoader - and
newly-signed band River Deep.

The aim is to raise pounds 5,000 in aid of the British Red Cross Afghan Appeal.

Rob aims to release an EP of his specially-written songs after the concert.

Tickets, which cost pounds 6.50, are available on 024 7666 4296 or from
info@electricraiser.org.uk

LOAD-DATE: December 13, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

                   Copyright 2001 Coventry Newspapers Limited

                              172 of 251 DOCUMENTS

                            Daily Post (North Wales)

                          December 13, 2001, Thursday

10 ISRAELIS KILLED IN TWIN TERROR ATTACKS

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 97 words


TEN Israelis died last night when Palestinians ambushed an Israeli bus in the
West Bank and launched suicide bombers on a Jewish settlement in the Gaza Strip
last night.

The attack on the bus took place as it neared the Jewish settlement of Emmanuel
in the West Bank, about 25 miles north of Jerusalem.

An Israeli army spokesman said an explosion caused by either a suicide bomber or
a roadside bomb caused it to stop, and gunmen then opened fire. .

Two suicide bombers blew themselves up near the Gush Katif settlement in the
Gaza Strip, wounding several people.

LOAD-DATE: December 13, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: ATTACKS: Police and medics work at the scene of the bus ambush with a
victim covered in the foreground

               Copyright 2001 The Liverpool Daily Post & Echo Ltd

                              173 of 251 DOCUMENTS

                                  Daily Record

                          December 13, 2001, Thursday

TEN DIE AS ISRAELI BUS IS AMBUSHED;
 GRENADES AND GUNS USED IN TERROR ATTACK ON SHOPPERS

BYLINE: Mark Ellis

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 17

LENGTH: 410 words


TEN Israelis were killed and dozens seriously hurt when their armoured bus was
ambushed in the West Bank last night.

Two of the injured passengers were reported to be in a critical condition after
grenades and a hail of bullets ripped into the bus.

In a separate attack, two Palestinian suicide bombers blew themselves up at a
Jewish settlement in the Gaza Strip.

The blasts - timed to coincide with the ambush - wounded three Israelis.

The latest outbreak of Middle East violence came just a day after the latest
peace initiative from the American special envoy, Anthony Zinni.

He appealed for Israelis and Palestinians to observe a 48-hour period of calm to
restore trust on both sides.

After two weeks without a breakthrough, Zinni had been ready to go home.

But he vowed to continue his peace mission after the latest violence.

Last night, however, the region was bracing itself for a harsh response from
Israel.

"We are facing a campaign of terror," said Israeli cabinet minister Tsipi Livni.

He accused the Palestinian leader Yasser Arafat of doing little to stop the
attacks.

The al-Aqsa Martyrs Brigade, an armed group which has links to Arafat's Fatah
organisation, claimed responsibility for the carnage.

The attackers struck as the bus was winding it way uphill.

It was carrying a both workers and shoppers back home to the town of Immanuel,
some 25 miles north of Jerusalem.

One passenger, Isahal Otner, told how a grenade was thrown at the back of the
bus and then it had been sprayed by gunfire from all sides as it approached the
settlement.

He said: "There was a huge explosion in the back of the bus, all the windows of
the back of the bus were destroyed and people lay on the ground."

Paramedics in six ambulances reported coming under gunfire when they arrived at
the scene to treat the wounded.

Security sources said the suicide bomb attacks took place in Gush Katif, near a
civilian car and a hotel.

Earlier, Israeli helicopter gunships attacked a Palestinian refugee camp after
mortar attacks on nearby Jewish settlements.

Four Palestinian militiamen were killed and 20 bystanders wounded in the air
strike on the Khan Younis camp.

Then five Israeli tanks drove into the centre of the West Bank town of Jenin,
sparking a gun battle with hundreds of Palestinian activists.

Fourteen Jenin residents were wounded by Israeli fire before the tanks left,
doctors said.

LOAD-DATE: December 13, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

            Copyright 2001 Scottish Daily Record & Sunday Mail Ltd.

                              174 of 251 DOCUMENTS

                                  Daily Record

                          December 13, 2001, Thursday

WISH YOU WERE FEAR;
 TRAVELLERS ARE HANGING BACK FROM BOOKING THEIR SUMMER HOLIDAYS DUE TO CONCERNS
OVER JOBS AND THE ECONOMY AFTER THE US TERROR ATTACKS

BYLINE: Ron Moore

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 538 words


SCOTS are being put off booking their summer holidays by the fear factor.

The war on terrorism and worries over job losses and the economy are making
people wary of planning a break.

But we're still more prepared to risk travelling than would-be holidaymakers
south of the Border.

The travel industry claim bookings for most UK operators are down by 40 to 50
per cent.

However, the Association of British Travel Agents claim business in Scotland is
down by only 15 to 20 per cent.

And the association expect things to pick up early next year. They claim people
are still flying - but just postponing things.

Sandy MacPherson, spokesman for the organisation north of the Border, warned:
"Scotland cannot be exempt from what's going on in the market.

"Forward bookings are noticably down. The market is very, very fragile. There
are several reasons why people are hanging back.

"There was reaction to the September 11 attacks. Now, people are beginning to
feel there is a problem with the underlying economy, and there's a feeling of
uncertainty about their long-term security."

The UK's biggest tour firm, Thomson Holidays, sparked outrage when they slashed
back services from Edinburgh and Aberdeen airports. They are among the worst-hit
firms.

Bookings for next summer have plunged by 50 per cent since the September 11
attacks when compared with the same period last year.

They estimate total numbers will be down 10 per cent on summer 2001.

Thomson's Northern Europe boss Peter Rothwell said: "January is always an
important month for bookings, and January 2002 is going be even more crucial
than normal.

"But winter 2001-02 is holding up well and Christmas and New Year bookings are
very strong."

That claim was backed up by the association. Nearly one million Britons will fly
abroad this Christmas - almost as many as last year.

British Airways said New York, Los Angeles and Miami were the most popular
long-haul destinations. The Canary Island was said to be sold out.

However, another major player, First Choice Holidays, have cut the number of
summer holidays to Florida by 66 per cent.

They are shifting flights to destinations like Tenerife hoping to pull in more
business. Boss Peter Long said: "The North American market is very tough at the
moment."

First Choice have cut the total number of winter 2002 holidays on sale by 12 per
cent - 100,000 trips.

And they have already cut the number of summer holidays next year by 20 per cent
- 400,000 breaks.

A major Scots firm, Barrhead Travel, in Glasgow, also said bookings for next
summer were down.

Owner Bill Munro said: "Uncertainty is preventing people from booking. They are
not prepared to book six or nine months in advance.

"They are not scared of flying, they just don't want to book that far in
advance."

But he warned people not to delay booking because many tour operators had
slashed flights in the wake of the industry's worst aviation crisis.

Another leading Scots firm, Direct Holidays also said summer business was down.
But they also expect bookings to pick up.

And they claim Thomson's chopping of flights from Scotland is short-sighted.

WAR SPECIAL: Page 17

LOAD-DATE: December 13, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

            Copyright 2001 Scottish Daily Record & Sunday Mail Ltd.

                              175 of 251 DOCUMENTS

                         The Evening Standard (London)

                               December 13, 2001

TERROR ATTACK ON INDIA'S MPs;
'15 die' in shootout at Delhi parliament

BYLINE: Rahul Bedi

SECTION: Pg. 1

LENGTH: 648 words


AS MANY as 15 people died and at least 20 were injured today when terrorists
attacked the Indian parliament, sparking a fierce gun battle with security
forces.

Witnesses said the attack opened with an explosion and heavy gunfire as a group
of men armed with AK47 rifles and grenades stormed the upper house at about
11.45am local time.

They gained entry into the red sandstone building through a gate used by the
chairman of the upper house, the Rajya Sabha, by pretending to be commandos
dressed in plain clothes.

Once inside they began firing indiscriminately as MPs and reporters in the lobby
panicked and ran helter-skelter.

Opposition MP Renuka Chowdhury said it was a "brutal shock", adding: "Parliament
is under siege."

Firing was reported to be continuing inside the building in New Delhi two hours
later. The attack comes as England's cricketers continue their tour of the
country.

The identity of the terrorist group is not immediately known. Initial reports
indicate that at least six terrorists and six police, including one woman
officer, were killed and 20 others, including parliament staff, were injured -
many critically. A television cameraman was also reported hurt.

Final figures are yet to be confirmed but authorities fear there are more
casualties in the building and dozens of stretchers were being prepared at a
nearby hospital.

Hundreds of troops in full battlegear took up positions around the parliament,
sealing off the area as security forces throughout the area were put on red
alert.

Army snipers covered the building as commandos prepared to move in to deal with
a possible remaining gunman still thought to be at large in the building's
labyrinthine corridors.

Prime Minister Atal Behari Vajpayee was initially reported to be in the complex
at the time of the attack but officials later said he had not yet arrived for
work. Several ministers

and dozens of MPs were in the building,but none was reported injured.

Home minister L K Advani said: "All MPs are safe. There has been no damage to
the parliament building. As a nation, the people will be aroused. Our feelings
of nationalism and patriotism have been fired.

This attack would cost our attackers heavily." He did not identify the group he
was referring to.

All streets leading to the parliamentary complex, home to both houses of
parliament and almost 800 MPs, were closed. The Prime Minister's office said he
was monitoring the situation from an undisclosed location under armed guard.

One MP, R K Anand, claimed security was lax and anyone with a uniform was able
to walk past the guards at the gate. He added: "Many lawmakers have their own
elite security guards and it's easy enough for an outsider to slip in with them.
Anybody in a uniform can walk in with an MP."

One local television station reported that bodies were lying on lawns and
pavements near the gate. A TV cameraman was shot and police were said to be
firing at anyone, including journalists.

Authorities at the scene said a bomb at the complex had yet to be defused.

So far no group has claimed responsibility for the attack but the country is
plagued by a separatist revolt in the disputed state of Kashmir, intermittent
political unrest in the rugged northeast and south.

India is racked by separatist and communal violence but it is the first time
such an attack has been launched on the heavily-guarded parliamentary complex.
Two months ago, 38 people died in a suicide-bomb attack on the state assembly in
the state of Jammu and Kashmir in India's far north.

Several England cricketers initially considered withdrawing from the winter
tour, fearing the party might become a terrorist target.

Two, Andrew Caddick and Robert Croft, decided to stay at home. The Second Test
is currently under way in Ahmedabad, several hundred miles from Delhi.


LOAD-DATE: December 14, 2001

LANGUAGE: English

GRAPHIC: VICTIM: A POLICEMAN WITH A HEAD WOUND AND OTHER INJURIES IS TAKEN FROM
THE SCENE OF THE GUN BATTLE INSIDE THE INDIAN PARLIAMENT BUILDING TO HOSPITAL IN
NEW DELHI

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                   Copyright 2001 Associated Newspapers Ltd.

                              176 of 251 DOCUMENTS

                            The Independent (London)

                          December 13, 2001, Thursday

CAMPAIGN AGAINST TERRORISM: BIOTERROR ATTACK DUE IN US, CLAIMS AMERICAN CAPTIVE

BYLINE: Andrew Buncombe In Washington And Kathy Marks In Sydney John Walker
Lindh: 'Whole of US to be destroyed'

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 479 words


THE AMERICAN Taliban fighter held by marines in Afghan-istan claims al-Qa'ida
plans to launch a bioterrorism attack on the US within days. John Walker Lindh
said the second wave of the network's assault would begin at the end of Ramadan,
the Muslim holy month that finishes on Sunday. He said a third phase of attacks
would destroy the entire country.

Mr Lindh, 20, was captured near Mazar-i-Sharif and held at the prison near the
northern city where more than 230 Taliban fighters were killed in a jail
uprising. A CIA officer who initially interrogated Mr Lindh was killed hours
later, at the start of the revolt.

Sources said American officials who had interrogated the prisoner-of- war
doubted the credibility of the information because of his relatively low
position within the organisation. The CIA declined to comment, though it knows
Mr Lindh, who converted to Islam as a teenager and went to Pakistan to study in
a religious school, has been passing on information about al-Qa'ida and the
Taliban to interrogators. He is being held at the desert camp established by
marines about 60 miles from the southern city of Kandahar.

General Richard Myers, chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff, had said: "He's
been pretty close to the action and he has provided from the Afghan perspective
useful information. The evidence is pretty strong he was right in the middle of
it."

He is not the only Taliban Westerner captured by the Northern Alliance. A 26
-year-old Australian who trained with Osama bin Laden's al-Qa'ida fighters in
Afghanistan was named yesterday as 26-year-old David Hicks, an adventurer and
poultry worker whose family lives in Adelaide. He is said to have held a more
senior position in al -Qa'ida than Mr Lindh.

Mr Hicks's father, a government worker, has identified the captive as his son,
and said his son telephoned him 17 days after the 11 September attacks and told
him he was fighting with the Taliban. Daryl Williams, the Australian Attorney
General, refused to confirm the man's name but said he had also trained with
Islamic groups in Kosovo and Pakistan. Members of the man's family in Australia
were interviewed by security agents and federal police on Tuesday.

Mr Williams said the Australian, who was not known to domestic security
organisations, travelled to Europe in mid-1999 to join the Kosovo Liberation
Army. He moved to Pakistan in November 1999, where he trained with the Lashkar
-e-Taiba, an Islamic group fighting to wrest control of Kashmir from India. A
year later, he went to Afghanistan, for intensive training with al-Qa'ida. He
was captured last weekend.

"At this stage there is a range of issues to be explored including the
possibility of criminal offences under Australian law," Mr Williams said. He
said there was no evidence to suggest he was linked to any security threat to
Australia.

LOAD-DATE: December 13, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 2001 Independent Print Ltd

                              177 of 251 DOCUMENTS

                                  Western Mail

                          December 13, 2001, Thursday

PALESTINIAN GUNMEN KILL EIGHT BUS PASSENGERS;
 MIDDLE EAST: TERRORIST ATTACKS WRECK HOPES FOR TRUCE

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 225 words


PALESTINIANS ambushed an Israeli bus in the West Bank, killing eight, and
launched suicide bombers on a Jewish settlement in the Gaza Strip in double
terror attacks last night.

The attack on the bus took place after nightfall as the bus was on a winding
uphill road approaching the Jewish settlement of Emmanuel in the West Bank,
about 25 miles north of Jerusalem.

Captain Jacob Dallal, an Israeli army spokesman, said an explosion caused by
either a suicide bomber or a roadside bomb caused it to stop, and gunmen then
opened fire from surrounding hills.

They attacked the bus and rescue crews that rushed to the scene in the darkness.

Captain Dallal said eight people were killed and between 25 and 30 were injured
in the attack.

At virtually the same time, two suicide bombers blew themselves up near the Gush
Katif settlement in the Gaza Strip, wounding several people, the army said.

The bombers jumped on a car leaving the settlement and detonated the explosives,
TV reports said.

The passengers in the car escaped with minor injuries but the assailants were
killed, the reports said.

There was no immediate claim of responsibility for either attack which virtually
wrecked any hope a US envoy had of arranging a 48-hour truce. The violence
raised questions about the effectiveness of the US mediation mission.

LOAD-DATE: December 13, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                    Copyright 2001 Western Mail and Echo Ltd

                              178 of 251 DOCUMENTS

                              Western Daily Press

                               December 13, 2001

Eight dead in terror attacks;
 WORLD NEWS

SECTION: News, Pg.12

LENGTH: 86 words


ISRAEL was rocked by double terror attacks last night.

In the first, eight people were killed and between 25 and 30 injured in an
ambush on an Israeli bus on a road approaching the Jewish settlement of Emmanuel
in the West Bank. An Israeli army spokesman said an explosion, caused by either
a suicide bombers or a roadside bomb, caused it to stop and gunmen then opened
fire from surrounding hills.

At the same time, two suicide bombers blew themselves up in the Gaza Strip,
wounding several people.

LOAD-DATE: December 13, 2001

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                      Copyright 2001 Bristol United Press

                              179 of 251 DOCUMENTS

                     Belfast News Letter (Northern Ireland)

                           December 14, 2001, Friday

13 DIE IN TERROR ATTACK ON INDIAN PARLIAMENT;
 SIX GUNMEN KILLED IN 90 -MINUTE BATTLE WITH COMMANDOS

SECTION: WORLD NEWS; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 368 words

HIGHLIGHT: ATTACK: police commandos take cover as explosions erupt at;
Parliament House in New Delhi


SIX gunmen stormed the heart of the world's biggest democracy with grenades,
automatic rifles and a suicide bomb yesterday, and at least 13 people were
killed.

The car, with siren blaring, sped through a gate at the Indian parliament in New
Delhi and one militant jumped out, blowing himself up, while the others opened
fire on police and security guards.

"This was an attack not just on Parliament house, but a warning to the entire
country. We accept the challenge. We will foil every attempt of the terrorists,"
Prime Minister Atal Bihari Vajpayee told the nation in a TV address.

In what was called the worst breach of government security since the
assassination of Prime Minister Indira Gandhi in 1984, New Delhi's police chief,
Ajai Raj Sharma, said six policemen and an army commando were killed when the
intruders first opened fire.

After a 90 minute battle, Pramod Mahajan, India's parliamentary affairs
minister, confirmed that "all six terrorists have been killed."

An official at the nearby government hospital said 17 people were being treated
for injuries, including six in critical condition.

After three hours, when MPs had been evacuated, police found and set off a
remaining bomb in a controlled explosion, and Sharma said several grenades were
also defused.

The gunmen had driven a white, Indian-made, Ambassador car, of the kind used by
government officials. A siren on the car was wailing and official stickers from
Parliament and the Home Ministry were fixed to the windscreen.

Foreign secretary Jack Straw condemned the attack as an assault on "the heart of
India's democracy."

Pakistan's foreign ministry spokesman, Aziz Ahmed Khan, said: "The government
strongly condemns the attack."

Parliament had been adjourned at the time of the attack, but most MPs, including
Defence Minister George Fernandes, Home Minister Lal Advani, and Vice President
Krishan Kant were still inside.

The Press Trust of India news agency said Prime Minister AB Vajpayee was just
leaving parliament when the attack was launched.

Advani said he had warned all India's state governments to be vigilant against
any further attack.

He said all MPs were safe.

LOAD-DATE: December 14, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

                   Copyright 2001 Century Newspapers Limited

                              180 of 251 DOCUMENTS

                            Daily Post (North Wales)

                           December 14, 2001, Friday

TERROR ATTACK ON INDIAN PARLIAMENT KILLS 12

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 227 words


PRIME Minister Tony Blair yesterday led British politicians in condemning a
terrorist attack on the Indian parliament in which at least 12 people were
killed.

Six men armed with guns, grenades and a bomb stormed the building in New Delhi,
opening fire at an entrance used by politicians.

Indian Prime Minister Atal Bihari Vajpayee was reported to have been leaving the
building at the time but officials said he was safe and monitoring the situation
from an undisclosed location.

In a statement, Mr Blair said:

"This attack on the heart of Indian democracy is to be totally deplored.

"My sympathies go to the victims and their families and to Prime Minister
Vajpayee as he leads his country at this difficult time."

Witnesses said the six men in civilian clothes opened fire just before noon
local time (6.30am GMT). The dead were believed to include the terrorists as
well as six policemen. A number of people were wounded, some seriously.

Parliament had been adjourned at the time of the attack, but most MPs, including
government ministers, were still inside.

Tory foreign affairs spokesman Alan Duncan said in a statement: "We unreservedly
condemn this terrible attack on democracy.

"This incident further demonstrates the need for the international community to
stand firm in the face of terrorism wherever it occurs."

LOAD-DATE: December 14, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: UNDER FIRE: A Delhi police officer

               Copyright 2001 The Liverpool Daily Post & Echo Ltd

                              181 of 251 DOCUMENTS

                          THE DAILY TELEGRAPH(LONDON)

                           December 14, 2001, Friday

12 die in terror attack on heart of Indian democracy

BYLINE: By Rahul Bedi in New Delhi

SECTION: Pg. 12

LENGTH: 1120 words

THE Indian government last night promised revenge for a suicide attack on its
parliament by unknown militants who killed seven people but were stopped from
carrying out a massacre of India's leadership.

No one claimed responsibility for the attack, but some police sources said that
the five raiders, who were all killed, were of Afghan appearance, raising the
possibility of a link to Osama bin Laden and the Taliban.

The attack happened at 11.45am when one of the men detonated explosives strapped
to his waist outside the parliament building. The four others then stormed in,
firing AK-47s and throwing grenades.

They were all killed by Indian security forces before they could reach the inner
sanctum of the Rajya Sabha, or Upper House.

The prime minister, Atal Behari Vajpayee, had been due in parliament for
question hour, but that had been postponed.

In a television broadcast, he said: "This was not just an attack on the
building, it was a warning to the entire nation.

"For the past two decades we have been fighting terrorism. The fight has now
reached a decisive stage."

Some MPs demanded Israeli-style strikes against targets in Pakistan if
Islamabad's involvement was proven.

The militants had driven into the building's car park in a stolen white
Ambassador - a local version of the Morris Oxford - with a fake parliamentary
pass pasted on the windscreen and a red flashing light on its roof to indicate
that it belonged to a VIP.

The target was carefully chosen. It was here, in the monumental sandstone
edifice designed by Sir Herbert Baker and Sir Edwin Lutyens during the 1930s,
that India took control of its own affairs in August 1947. It was here that the
country's first prime minister, Jawaharlal Nehru made his historic "tryst with
destiny" speech.

As the gunmen abandoned their booby-trapped car one rushed towards Gate 11, the
vice-president's entrance, firing as he ran. Kamlesh Kumar, a female constable
with the paramilitary Central Reserve Police Force (CRPF), and a colleague were
the first to be cut down by the bullets.

Krishan Kant, India's vice-president, was spared only by a providential
two-minute delay in leaving for home.

One gunman concentrated his fire on one of the many bullet-proof vehicles in Mr
Kant's motorcade, but he was still in the building, having just adjourned the
proceedings of the Upper House.

As the vice-president was taken to his chambers, the gunman pushed his way past
the police barrier into the outermost of the parliament's concentric corridors,
firing and screaming as he ran.

Security personnel inside fired back, killing the attacker. Meanwhile, another
militant had run to the main gate and detonated the explosives strapped around
his waist, dying instantly. Three other gunmen headed for Gates 5 and 9, used
exclusively by Mr Vajpayee and the home affairs minister, Lal Krishna Advani.

Two CRPF guards and Des Raj, a gardener working nearby, were killed. Two more
guards were shot dead as the gunmen weaved their way to the two gates.

But here they encountered stiff resistance from the commandos of the Special
Protection Group. After an exchange of gunfire lasting more than 30 minutes, the
attackers were killed. The entire incident had lasted more than an hour.

Army experts later defused a powerful bomb in the assailants' car with a
controlled explosion.

More than 400 MPs milled around the cavernous central hall, puzzled by the
explosions and staccato firing.

"I heard a cracker-like sound near the entrance, then I saw people running
helter-skelter," said one government MP, Kharbala Sain. "I saw many people
firing at the same time. I couldn't make out who was who. I couldn't understand
who the terrorists were and who the police were. My mind went blank."

Scores of journalists were also caught off guard. They realised the gravity of
the situation only when they looked down from the first-floor balcony and saw
terrified ministers, MPs and security men running around.

Within minutes they were forced by the security staff to take shelter in the
press rooms, cutting them off from events outside, apart from the sounds of
sirens, gunfire and exploding grenades.

Even as the bodies of the dead were sent to hospital and those inside the
building were allowed to leave after showing their identity cards, there was a
lurking apprehension that one of the terrorists could still be hiding inside the
complex.

Late into the night, commandos searched Parliament House, convinced that an
armed militant was still lurking in one of innumerable rooms or darkened,
winding corridors.

The outer perimeter of the parliament's two-storey circular building is guarded
by 250 CRPF personnel and its numerous gates manned by about 100 Delhi policemen
as well as the parliament's own security staff.

There is also the Special Protection Group, who guard Mr Vajpayee, the
opposition leader Sonia Gandhi and other political leaders on militant
hit-lists. They are "licensed to kill" by parliamentary fiat if they perceive a
security threat to the leaders they protect.

Personnel from the shadowy Special Frontier Force are also deployed around
parliament's perimeter alongside
men from the Central Industrial Security Force.

But despite the proliferation of guards, security sources say there were many
loopholes. More than 350 journalists are accredited lobby correspondents and
about 1,500 other people pass through parliament's imposing wrought-iron gates
every day after cursory security checks.

MPs are also entitled to invite guests to the galleries overlooking the house
well. And in a predominantly feudal political system they manage to bully the
guards into not frisking their guests. Two years ago, MPs criticised the
presence of armed guards inside the building and security personnel were banned
from carrying weapons in the inner chambers of the legislature during sessions.

"It is not very difficult to forge car passes issued to us by the parliamentary
staff," said a journalist who has been covering parliament for more than 14
years.

He called the massive security a "mere show of strength" that functioned only on
paper.

The home affairs minister defended the security arrangements. "I do not think
there was any security or intelligence breach, " Mr Advani told a press
conference.

"For us it is a matter of gratification that our security forces not only
prevented every one of them from being able to enter parliament, but in a span
of 20 minutes to half-an-hour liquidated all five of them."

He added: "In fact, I would say it was a remarkable example of success in terms
of our security."

To prove his point, he announced that parliament would reconvene as scheduled
this morning.

LOAD-DATE: December 14, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 2001 Telegraph Group Limited

                              182 of 251 DOCUMENTS

                              The Herald (Glasgow)

                               December 14, 2001

India suicide attack opens new front in terrorism war

BYLINE: Aine Harrington

SECTION: Pg. 2

LENGTH: 723 words


A FIVE-STRONG suicide squad stormed India's parliament yesterday, killing seven
people before dying themselves in an unprecedented attack on the seat of power
of the world's biggest democracy.

There was no immediate claim of responsibility for the assault during which one
attacker detonated explosives strapped to his waist and others hurled grenades
and fought a gun battle with police.

No ministers or legislators were hurt in the attack, which began about 11.45am
(6.15am GMT). But parliamentary officials said that four policemen, one unarmed
paramilitary guard, a woman paramilitary constable and a gardener were killed in
the attack. A further 18 people were said to have been injured.

Atal Behari Vajpayee, the Indian prime minister, who was not in the parliament
at the time, went on television later to say India's battle against terrorism
had reached its final stage, while both his defence and interior ministers vowed
a tough response.

"This was an attack not just on parliament house, but a warning to the entire
country. We accept the challenge. We will foil every attempt of the terrorists,"
Mr Vajpayee told the nation.

It was the worst breach of government security since the assassination of Indira
Gandhi, then Indian prime minister, in 1984.

Initial speculation turned to Islamic militants fighting Indian rule in the
state of Jammu and Kashmir, where 38 people died in a suicide attack on the
state assembly two months ago.

If confirmed, it would heighten tension with Pakistan, accused by New Delhi of
sponsoring Kashmiri militancy. Pervez Musharraf, the Pakistan president, quickly
condemned the attack and sent a message of sympathy to Mr Vajpayee.

George W Bush, the US president, telephoned Mr Vajpayee to offer condolences and
offered FBI officials and state department counterterrorism teams to help in an
investigation.

Tony Blair, the prime minister, said: "This attack on the heart of Indian
democracy is to be totally deplored."

"I am appalled," said Chris Patten, external relations commissioner of the
European Union. "Terrorism is a threat to freedom everywhere and requires a
global response."

Afsir Karim, a retired major general who is now a terrorism expert, said the
terrorist who attack the parliament could have been trained in Pakistan.

Mr Karim said: "The techniques used by the terrorists would seem to suggest they
were trained in Pakistan. We have seen these kind of attacks in Jammu and
Kashmir in the past."

A series of bomb blasts rocked Kashmir near the border with Pakistan yesterday
but there were no casualties or damage. An attack on a paramilitary camp by
separatist guerrillas in the Tral township of Kashmir was also foiled.

Witnesses said five people stormed the parliament by leaping from a car and
attacking security guards. They had apparently driven into the complex using a
fake pass.

Kharbala Sain, speaking outside the sandstone parliament designed by Sir Edwin
Lutyens during British colonial rule, said: "I heard a cracker-like sound near
the entrance, then I saw people running helter-skelter."

One of the intruders blew himself up at the main entrance to the parliament
chambers.

L K Advani, the Indian home (interior) minister told a news conference: "I saw
many people firing at the same time. I couldn't make out who was who. I couldn't
understand who the terrorists were and who the police were. My mind went blank."

"I can only imagine how horrifying it would have been if the suicide squad had
succeeded in its objective.

"It seems their objective was somehow to get inside parliament house, fully
armed with their AK-47s and grenades, while parliament was in session and all
the members of the Indian government, all the members of parliament, including
the political leaders of the country, were inside."

Mr Advani said parliament, which was last night being combed by security forces,
would open for business today.

Analysts said if yesterday's raid turned out to be by Kashmir separatists, India
could launch a counter-attack across the line of control into Pakistani -held
territory. "If it turns out that any organisation having with links with
Pakistan is responsible, then there is going to be a very serious deterioration
in relations with Pakistan at the very least," said one.

LOAD-DATE: December 14, 2001

LANGUAGE: English

GRAPHIC: WATCHING BRIEF: Police stand guard outside the Indian parliament
building in New Delhi yesterday after the attack which killed 12. Picture: Kamal
Kishore/Reuters

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                Copyright 2001 Scottish Media Newspapers Limited

                              183 of 251 DOCUMENTS

                            The Independent (London)

                           December 14, 2001, Friday

TERRORIST ATTACK ON HEART OF WORLD'S BIGGEST DEMOCRACY

BYLINE: Nick Meo In Delhi An injured policeman arrives at hospital after about
six gunmen stormed the Indian parliament in New Delhi yesterday EPA

SECTION: FOREIGN NEWS; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 804 words


THE LUMBERING Hindustan Ambassador painted white with a red light on the top and
a parliamentary pass stuck to the window looked like the typical vehicle of an
Indian VIP.

Every day hundreds of that type drive through a high- security cordon to the
entrance of the parliament building in the centre of Delhi to drop off or
collect Members of Parliament.

But the five men crammed into the vehicle yesterday, one a human bomb with
explosives strapped to his waist, were intent on carrying out a terrorist
spectacular in the heart of the world's biggest democracy. The squad's mission
was to shoot guards dead at a little-used side entrance to the parliament
building - gate 11 - and then sprint just 50 metres down a corridor into the
main chamber where a debate had not long finished.

Hundreds of MPs and their aides were still milling around in the chamber of the
upper house, easy targets for terrorists armed with AK47s and grenades. India's
Prime Minister, Atal Bihari Vajpayee, had been due to appear there for members'
questions and may have been their target.

The squad failed to penetrate the building's security or kill Mr Vajpayee. But
they still managed to commit India's most devastating terrorist attack since the
assassination of Rajiv Gandhi a decade ago when he was Prime Minister, in the
process rocking Delhi and goading some Indians into calling for strikes against
Pakistan.

Indians are used to terrorist outrages in the disputed province of Kashmir. A
suicide attack in October by a group linked to al-Qa'ida left 38 dead at
Srinigar's Assembly building.

Attacks in the capital are rare but this one was captured by television crews,
who were on hand to cover parliamentary proceedings and recorded the assault
when it began at 11.45am. The occupants of the Ambassador began firing at the
police guards and hurling grenades as departing MPs scrambled for cover.

TV pictures showed bloody corpses lying on the steps outside the elegant Raj
-era building, which hosted the official handover of power to an independent
India in 1947.

Police and terrorists manoeuvred for position in the firefight and the pictures
were broadcast over and over again with a horrified nation glued to its
television screens. The terrorists, wearing stolen Indian army commando
uniforms, laid siege for 30 minutes. Inside shaken legislators struggled to
evacuate the building.

Outside there were explosions and gunsmoke drifted across the immaculately
trimmed lawns. The doomed raiders fought to the death against a backdrop of
flowers and fountains.

Elite Black Cat commandos had to be called in to track down at least one
assailant, who survived for more than an hour. He and his four colleagues were
all among the final death toll, as were five police officers, an MP's bodyguard
and a gardener, named only as Deshraj, who was caught in the crossfire.

One MP, Najma Heptulla, was yards away in her office when the assault began. She
said: "At first I thought somebody was letting off firecrackers. Then we
realised it was firing, and it was very close. There are bullet holes inside the
building. My personal security man, Jagdish Yadav, ran outside to chase them and
he was killed.

"But none of the MPs were frightened. We are used to terrorism here. People just
evacuated calmly, but my God it was close," she said.

Soon afterwards, while disposal squads were defusing two bombs left in the
Ambassador and army units with heavy machine-guns took up positions to seal off
the area, the calls started for retaliation against terrorists and against
Pakistan, blamed in India as the assailants' sponsor.

Raghubir Singh, a member of the ruling Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP), asked:
"Where is the doubt? What is there to prove?" Fellow BJP member Srichand
Kripalani added: "The government should do what America has done in Afghanistan
and what Israel is doing in Palestine. The government should not shy away from
attacking Pakistan, if involvement is proved."

The country's leaders were also making belligerent noises as they sought to
soothe the nation's shattered nerves. L K Advani, the Home Minister, promised
the group behind the attack would "pay dearly" and George Fernandes, the Defence
Minister, warned: "We are capable of dealing with any situation which may be
created by Pakistan."

The option of hot pursuit into Pakistan, and strikes on alleged terrorist
training bases on the other side of the disputed border, was the favourite among
the crowds who gathered to gape outside the parliament in the wake of the
attack.

Pramod Singh, an onlooker, said: "It's high time India crossed the Line of
Control. We want to see the same action by the Indian government as we have seen
by the Americans. Terrorism is a global menace. Why should our hands be tied?"

LOAD-DATE: December 14, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 2001 Independent Print Ltd

                              184 of 251 DOCUMENTS

                            The Independent (London)

                           December 14, 2001, Friday

GOVERNMENT OFFERS AIRLINES POUNDS 40M TO SOFTEN BLOW OF TERRORIST ATTACKS

BYLINE: Barrie Clement Transport Editor

SECTION: BUSINESS; Pg. 21

LENGTH: 321 words


BRITISH AIRLINES were yesterday offered pounds 40m by the Government to
compensate them for the impact of the terrorist atrocities on 11 September.

British Airways, Virgin and British Midland were among those invited to apply
for their share of the package, which is aimed at ameliorating the effects of
the closure of air space immediately after the attacks and the slump in
passenger numbers since. The Secretary of State for Transport, Stephen Byers,
said the decision was taken to aid the carriers because the circumstances were
exceptional and therefore merited "exceptional assistance".

The level of compensation, however, is dwarfed by the cash received by American
airlines from the US government, which is not constrained by European
competition law.

Mr Byers said the package would help airlines at a time when passenger numbers
on services between the UK and US, and therefore revenues, were still
"significantly below" their levels before 11 September.

Qualifying airlines will now be invited to submit claims. Compensation under the
scheme will cover lost revenue over the period during which airspace was closed
after the terrorist attacks. It will also compensate for additional costs
incurred during that period, such as airport and airspace charges, costs
incurred in transporting passengers from their diverted destination to their
intended destination, additional operating costs of diverted aircraft and
additional crew costs.

A spokesman for British Airways, which will receive the lion's share of the
payout, said the airline was "grateful for any help we can receive", but that
the company would await full details of the criteria to be used in determining
the level of compensation it would receive. Airlines have been given four weeks
to submit claims.

The airline industry was hoping for some concessions on Airport Departure Tax,
which raises about pounds 1bn a year.

LOAD-DATE: December 14, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 2001 Independent Print Ltd

                              185 of 251 DOCUMENTS

                                    The Sun

                               December 14, 2001

INDIA ROCKED BY TERRORIST ATTACK

BYLINE: Paul Thompson

SECTION: GUNMEN KILL SEVEN

LENGTH: 163 words


    INDIA yesterday launched an all-out war on terror after a suicide squad
stormed its Parliament and killed seven people.

    All five attackers, armed with guns, bombs and grenades, died in an
hour-long battle with soldiers around the State complex in Delhi.

    One of the gang - who tricked their way into the secure area using a fake
car pass - had explosives around his waist and blew himself up.

    Six Parliamentary guards, one a woman, were also killed along with a
gardener. At least 22 other people were injured.

    Around 100 MPs had been in the Parliament building at the time. Shortly
after the attack, Indian PM Atal Behari Vajpayee appeared on TV to show he and
his ministers were safe.

    He said: "This was a warning to the nation. We accept the challenge- a do or
die battle."

    Islamic militants fighting against Indian rule in Kashmir are thought to
have been behind the attack. Defence Minister George Fernandes promised a
"hard-hitting" response.


LOAD-DATE: December 15, 2001

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Newspaper

                    Copyright 2001 NEWS GROUP NEWSPAPERS LTD

                              186 of 251 DOCUMENTS

                               The Times (London)

                           December 14, 2001, Friday

Terrorists die in India Parliament attack

BYLINE: Coomi Kapoor in Delhi

SECTION: Overseas news

LENGTH: 1216 words


FIVE terrorists with assault rifles and hand grenades stormed India's Parliament
in Delhi yesterday, killing seven people and wounding more than 20, many
seriously.

The attackers, believed to have links to the al-Qaeda network, exchanged fire
with guards for 35 minutes before four were shot dead and one blew himself up.
Atal Behari Vajpayee, the Prime Minister, said in a special broadcast that the
attack was "a challenge to the entire nation", and pledged a "do or die battle"
to defeat terrorism. He was not in the building at the time.

No MPs were killed in the raid but about 300 who were there, including senior
ministers, were herded to safety by security staff.

Later, after the Parliament had been sealed by police, special forces and "black
cat" commandos, shaken MPs were taken out in convoys. Five policemen, a gardener
and a parliamentary security official were among those killed in the gun battle.

The Army was called in to search Parliament for bombs. They found one in a
knapsack taken from one of the terrorists and it was disposed of in a controlled
explosion.

The attack triggered fears in Britain and across the world that al-Qaeda had
ordered a new wave of strikes against the West and its allies.

Britain was on the highest anti-terrorist alert since September 11 yesterday,
amid fears that the terror group would unleash a campaign to coincide with the
end of the Muslim holy month of Ramadan.

In addition to general warnings, specific threats had been made against the
Indian parliament before yesterday's raid. Mohammed Afroz Razak, an al-Qaeda
suspect in custody in Bombay since October, predicted yesterday's attack and
said that similar operations had been planned against the Palace of Westminster,
Tower Bridge and a tower block in Australia.

Both countries took the threats seriously enough to despatch investigators to
India to interview the suspect, a former trainee pilot. The British team of
three Scotland Yard detectives arrived in the country just as the attack was
launched against the Indian parliament. The detectives will probably interview
Razak, 25, today.

The terrorists drove to Parliament in a second-hand car that they had recently
bought. It had a government sticker, but not the mandatory Parliament pass
label. It was driven close behind an MP's car so that it looked as if it might
be an escort vehicle. A policewoman at the gate was shot as she tried to stop
it.

The gunmen failed to shoot their way into the numerous side entries of the
circular Parliament House because they had not taken into account the heavy
deployment of the Central Reserve Police Force at the back of the building.
Several VIP cars were badly damaged in the shooting, in which thousands of
rounds of ammunition were fired.

The suicide bomber who ran to the front entrance of the building was blown up
near the portico at the main steps when the explosives strapped to him detonated
too soon. The others opened fire on police and security guards. A cameraman
filming outside the building was seriously injured.

The attack, which was covered live on television, shocked the country. There
were immediate comparisons with the assassination of Indira Gandhi in 1984 and
her son Rajiv in 1991. Security has been tightened and a red alert declared in
the capital.

No militant group has admitted the attack. The Indian authorities said last
night that the five terrorists were fair-skinned men under 25 who were suspected
to have been Afghans based in Pakistan.

Some MPs did not even want to wait for an admission of responsibility to be made
before demanding action.

"Where is the doubt? What is there to prove?" asked Raghubir Singh, a member of
the ruling Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP).

Srichand Kripalani, also from the BJP, said: "The Government should do what
America has done in Afghanistan and what Israel is doing in Palestine. The
Government should not shy away from attacking Pakistan, if involvement is
proved."

In Islamabad, a Foreign Ministry spokesman said Pakistan strongly and
unequivocally condemned the attack.

India is one of the countries al-Qaeda has singled out for special mention. The
Indian Government seems to have stolen a march on Pakistan by becoming a major
supporter of the interim Government in Kabul.

Dr Abdullah Abdullah, the Afghan Foreign Minister designate, has arrived in
Delhi for talks with Indian leaders, soon after visits by Younous Qanooni, the
Interior Minister, and Mir Wais Sadeq, the Labour and Social Affairs Minister.
Pakistan is said to be perturbed by the apparent tilt of the new Government
towards its neighbour.

The two countries had backed rival factions in the long Afghan conflict before
the Taleban established supremacy. With the fall of the Taleban, the foreign
relations equations seemed to have altered. Now Delhi, which has been out of the
picture in Afghan affairs for the past six years, finds that many of its
proteges have come to power. Even Hamid Karzai, the Afghan leader, has an Indian
connection: he studied for his postgraduate degree at an Indian university in
Shimla.

Dr Abdullah, who was based in India before September 11 and whose family still
lives in Delhi, said on Wednesday that Kabul's relations with India should not
concern Pakistan. He described Pakistan as "our neighbour", but noted that India
was a major country in the region with which Kabul had every right to establish
ties.

According to reports in Indian newspapers, President Musharraf of Pakistan had
at one time, as part of the deal for helping America in Afghanistan,
specifically asked that India be kept out of all negotiations concerning
Afghanistan.

But far from keeping out of Afghan affairs, India has been among the first
countries to restore formal diplomatic ties. An Indian government plane taking a
delegation to Afghanistan also carried medicine and doctors and a large supply
of one of India's most powerful weapons in the region: cartons of Hindi film
videos and music cassettes. Starved of all entertainment during the Taleban
regime, Afghans have been flocking to the newly opened video parlours and music
shops and a large number of Bollywood film posters are on sale in Kabul.

The attack on the Indian Parliament bore similarities to a suicide attack on the
Kashmir legislative assembly in Srinagar two months ago, in which more than 30
people died.

At that time a Kashmiri militant group, the Lashkar-i-Taiba, was the prime
suspect. The Lashkar denied any involvement in yesterday's attack.

Since September 11 militant groups in Kashmir, such as the Lashkar, have been
put on the US Government's list of terrorists - a development that the Indian
Government had been seeking for years.

Britain and the Commonwealth condemned the attack, which Tony Blair described as
"appalling". In a statement he said: "This attack on the heart of Indian
democracy is to be totally deplored."

President Bush telephoned Mr Vajpayee to offer the condolences of the American
people. Ari Fleischer, the White House spokesman, said that Mr Bush had offered
to send FBI officials and State Department counter terrorism teams to help with
the investigation into the attack, if Mr Vajpayee wanted them.

Leading article, page 23


LOAD-DATE: December 14, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                    Copyright 2001 Times Newspapers Limited

                              187 of 251 DOCUMENTS

                        Western Morning News (Plymouth)

                               December 14, 2001

12 die in India gunmen attack
 Terrorists try to storm parliament building in New Delhi as MPs are inside

SECTION: NEWS: OTHER, Pg.23

LENGTH: 513 words


GUNMEN stormed the heart of the world's biggest democracy with grenades,
automatic rifles and a suicide bomb yesterday, and at least 12 people were
killed.

A car, with siren blaring, sped through a gate at the Indian parliament in New
Delhi and one assailant jumped out, blowing himself up, while the others opened
fire on police and security guards.

Prime Minister Atal Bihari Vajpayee later told the nation in a TV address: "This
was an attack not just on Parliament house, but a warning to the entire country.
We accept the challenge. We will foil every attempt of the terrorists."

It was called the worst breach of government security since the assassination of
Prime Minister Indira Gandhi in 1984.

Parliament officials said that four policemen, one unarmed paramilitary guard, a
woman paramilitary constable and a gardener were killed in the attack.

After a 90 minute battle, Pramod Mahajan, India's parliamentary affairs
minister, confirmed that "all six terrorists have been killed".

But Home Minister Kal Advani said that five terrorists were killed and that
another attacker may have been involved.

"The situation is not clear," he said.

There was no immediate claim of responsibility, though Mr Advani declared
"terrorists and their sponsors" were to blame.

Mr Advani said last week that a Bombay man had been arrested in October and told
police that he had trained by Osama bin Laden's al Qaida terrorism network. The
man said the group had planned to attack Britain, Australia and the Indian
Parliament.

An official at the nearby government hospital said 18 people were being treated
for injuries, including six in critical condition.

After three hours, when MPs had been evacuated, police found and detonated a
remaining bomb in a controlled explosion, and New Delhi's police chief, Ajai Raj
Sharma, said several grenades were also defused.

The gunmen had driven a white, Indian -made, Ambassador car, of the kind used by
government officials. A siren on the car was wailing and official stickers from
Parliament and the Home Ministry were fixed to the windscreen.

Foreign secretary Jack Straw condemned the attack as an assault on "the heart of
India's democracy."

Pakistan's foreign ministry spokesman, Aziz Ahmed Khan, said: "The government
strongly condemns the attack."

Parliament had been adjourned at the time of the attack, but most MPs, including
Defence Minister George Fernandes, Home Minister Lal Advani, and Vice President
Krishan Kant were still inside.

The Press Trust of India news agency said Prime Minister AB Vajpayee was just
leaving parliament when the attack was launched.

Mr Advani said he had warned all India's state governments to be vigilant
against any further attack. He said all MPs were safe.

Apart from rebel Sikhs and Kashmiris, India has had to grapple with some 30
tribal groups seeking independence or greater autonomy in the seven northeastern
states wedged between Bangladesh and Burma.

PROTECTION: Indian Black Cat commandos escort civilians away from the scene of
the gun battle in New Delhi

LOAD-DATE: December 15, 2001

LANGUAGE: English

                      Copyright 2001 Western Morning News

                              188 of 251 DOCUMENTS

                        Western Morning News (Plymouth)

                               December 14, 2001

Bin Laden 'gloats over terror attacks'
 Video released by the Pentagon shows al Qaida leader's delight at atrocities

BYLINE: John Madsen

SECTION: NEWS: OTHER, Pg.26

LENGTH: 668 words


BRITAIN and the US last night claimed conclusive proof that Osama bin Laden
ordered the September 11 atrocities after releasing a video of him boasting he
had calculated how many people would die.

In the amateur video, found by US intelligence officers abandoned in a house in
the Afghan city of Jalalabad, al Qaida leader bin Laden says the hijackers were
told just before boarding the aircraft what their mission was. He also describes
how his al Qaida followers had been "overjoyed" when they heard the news on the
radio that the second World Trade Centre tower had been hit. "This is all that
we had hoped for," he said.

Despite the poor quality of the video, Downing Street said it had no doubt it
was genuine. It had been subjected to numerous tests by US scientists who
compared bin Laden's voice and image to those in previous tapes.

"The matches in every case were identical. So we have no doubt at all about the
authenticity of the tape," the Prime Minister's official spokesman said.

The spokesman said the tape "does not exactly leave any room for doubt" that bin
Laden was to blame for the September 11 suicide attacks on the World Trade
Centre and the Pentagon.

"What is important about this is the unequivocal nature of what it shows," he
said.

The hour-long video shows bin Laden and two senior lieutenants q spiritual
adviser Ayman al-Zawahri and spokesman Abu Ghaith q visiting an unnamed sheikh,
who appears crippled from the waist down in what the Pentagon identified as a
guest house in the former Taliban stronghold of Kandahar.

It was dated November 9 and was said to have been discovered accidentally
towards the end of last month.

Bin Laden describes to the sheikh how he used his experience as an engineer to
calculate the damage and the casualties that would be caused when the planes hit
the twin towers.

"We calculated in advance the number of casualties from the enemy who would be
killed, based on the position of the tower. We calculated that the floors that
would be hit would be three or four floors. I was the most optimistic of them
all," he said.

"(Inaudible) due to my experience in this field, I was thinking that the fire
from the gas in the plane would melt the iron structure of the building and
collapse the area where the plane hit and all the floors above it only. This is
all that we had hoped for."

He disclosed that he had received "notification" the previous Thursday q
September 6 q that the attacks would take place on September 11 and described
how he heard the news of the attacks on the radio.

"After a little while, they announced that another plane had hit the World Trade
Centre. The brothers who heard the news were overjoyed by it," he said.

Later in the tape, bin Laden said the Egyptian hijacker Mohammed Atta had been
"in charge of the group" and said the hijackers had not been told their mission
until the last minute.

"The brothers who conducted the operation, all they knew was that they have a
martyrdom operation and we asked each of them to go to America but they didn't
know anything about the operation, not even one letter," he said.

"But they were trained and we did not reveal the operation to them until they
are there and just before they boarded the planes."

The tape was released by the Pentagon with a text translated into English from
Arabic by a team of four translators.

It said it had decided to make the tape public so that "the world fully
appreciate what we are up against in the war against terrorism".

Both Britain and the US clearly hope that the sight of bin Laden gloating over
the deaths on September 11 will cause revulsion among Muslims and harden opinion
against him among moderate Arab states.

VIEWER:New York City Fire Department's Lt Tom Woods watches the broadcast of the
Osama bin Laden tape yesterday. Ten members of Woods' midtown Manhattan fire
station, died in the World Trade Centre attacks. Footage from the tape (inset)
shows bin Laden, with a US translation of his words

LOAD-DATE: December 15, 2001

LANGUAGE: English

                      Copyright 2001 Western Morning News

                              189 of 251 DOCUMENTS

                                  Western Mail

                           December 14, 2001, Friday

TERRORISTS KILLED IN ATTACK ON PARLIAMENT;
 NEW DELHI

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 327 words


GUNMEN stormed the heart of the world's biggest democracy with grenades,
automatic rifles and a suicide bomb yesterday, and at least 12 people were
killed.

A car, with siren blaring, sped through a gate at the Indian parliament in New
Delhi and one assailant jumped out, blowing himself up, while the others opened
fire on police and security guards.

"This was an attack not just on Parliament House, but a warning to the entire
country. We accept the challenge. We will foil every attempt of the terrorists,
" Prime Minister Atal Bihari Vajpayee later told the nation in a TV address.

It was called the worst breach of government security since the assassination of
Prime Minister Indira Gandhi in 1984.

Parliament officials said that four policemen, one unarmed paramilitary guard, a
woman paramilitary constable and a gardener were killed in the attack.

After a 90-minute battle, Pramod Mahajan, India's parliamentary affairs
minister, confirmed that "all six terrorists have been killed".

But Home Minister Kal Advani said that five terrorists were killed and that
another attacker might have been involved.

"The situation is not clear, " he said.

There was no immediate claim of responsibility, though Advani declared
"terrorists and their sponsors" were to blame.

Advani said last week that a Bombay man arrested in October had told police that
he had been trained by Osama bin Laden's Al-Qaeda terrorism network. The man
said the group had planned to attack Britain, Australia and the Indian
Parliament.

An official at the nearby government hospital said 18 people were being treated
for injuries, including six in critical condition.

After three hours, when MPs had been evacuated, police found and detonated a
remaining bomb in a controlled explosion, and Sharma said several grenades were
also defused.

The gunmen had driven a white, Indian-made, Ambassador car, of the kind used by
government officials.

LOAD-DATE: December 14, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                    Copyright 2001 Western Mail and Echo Ltd

                              190 of 251 DOCUMENTS



                                   The Mirror

                          December 15, 2001, Saturday

WAR ON TERROR: FINAL ATTACK: DEAD? DON'T CARE;
 WE'LL TRAP HIM ONE WAY OR THE OTHER, VOWS BUSH

BYLINE: Alex Williams In Tora Bora

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 636 words

HIGHLIGHT: DETERMINED: George Bush yesterday; 'SPOTTED': Terror chief bin;
Laden; POUNDING: Explosions rock al-Qaeda positions in Tora Bora yesterday after
an attack by US planes. Right, a Marine


PRESIDENT Bush yesterday said he didn't care whether Osama bin Laden was brought
in "dead or alive".

He said: "I don't care. Dead or alive, either way. It doesn't matter to me."

And as Afghan fighters said they had found the terrorist's final hideout, Mr
Bush vowed bin Laden would be caught.

He said: "I don't know whether we're going to get him tomorrow, or a month from
now, or a year from now.

"But we're going to get him. He may hide for a while, but we'll get him."

The promise came as two US Special Forces troops were injured in a gun battle
near a cave complex in Tora Bora.

Luckily, the troops were just grazed - one in the shoulder and one in the knee -
as they were sprayed with machine-gun fire.

But it was the first evidence that they are fighting along side Eastern Alliance
soldiers trying to flush the remaining al-Qaeda terrorists from their caves.

And yesterday, there was growing speculation that bin Laden was among them.

Eastern Alliance defence chief Hazrat Ali said bin Laden had been spotted with
his most loyal fighters in his "personal shelter" near Tora Bora.

Ali would not say why he thought bin Laden was in the cave, one of several in
the area.

But his commanders are said to have seen the al-Qaeda leader in earlier fierce
fighting.

And a US official said: "Al-Qaeda are fighting damn hard - as though there is
something there really worth fighting for."

As darkness fell yesterday, US intelligence forces, the SAS and Afghan warlords
were moving in, ready for what could prove to be the last stand of al-Qaeda -
and possibly bin Laden.

There have been several unconfirmed sightings of the Saudi-born terror suspect
in Tora Bora in recent days.

However, it has also been claimed the he fled to Pakistan almost two weeks ago.
But Ali said: "We are going to search these caves and we hope to catch Osama."
The cave was among yesterday's bombing targets as the US kept up its relentless
assault from the skies.

But alliance troops who have been inside the complex said the bombing has had
little effect.

The air raids have been backed up by heavy fighting on the ground. The two US
troops injured yesterday are thought to be among 70 to 80 Special Forces troops
in Tora Bora.

They were lucky to escape with their lives after they came under heavy fire
dislodging an al-Qaeda mountain-top defensive position. In Washington yesterday,
defence officials explained why they believed bin Laden is still in Tora Bora.

Firstly, the said al-Qaeda was fighting "like there's something there worth
fighting for".

Secondly, there were reported sightings of him in the area and lastly, the
military had other intelligence suggesting Tora Bora is the best place to look.

The hunt for bin Laden, who has a pounds 18million bounty on his head, has
remained the focus of the war. The video released on Thursday of him celebrating
the September 11 attacks has only strengthened that resolve. And Mr Bush
yesterday dismissed critics in the Islamic world who said the tape might be
false as "preposterous".

He said: "This is bin Laden unedited. This is bin Laden, the bin Laden who
murdered the people."

Meanwhile, Defence Secretary Donald Rumsfeld said a pounds 7million reward would
soon be offered for senior Taliban officials, including Mullah Mohammad Omar,
its supreme leader who vanished when the city of Kandahar fell. US Marines were
there yesterday to start preparing the city's battle-scarred airport for the
arrival of humanitarian aid that will be needed as winter sets in.

ALGERIAN Lofti Raissi, 27, was yesterday remanded in custody, accused of
training some of the September 11 hijackers. He appeared at Belmarsh Magistrates
Court, London, as part of extradition proceedings brought by the US government.

LOAD-DATE: December 15, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                            Copyright 2001 MGN Ltd.

                              191 of 251 DOCUMENTS

                                  Morning Star

                               December 15, 2001

Benn attacks terror powers;
 People will 'pay heavy price' in loss of liberty

BYLINE: by IAN MORRISON

SECTION:  Pg. 1

LENGTH: 474 words


VETERAN left campaigner Tony Benn warned yesterday that the British people will
"pay a heavy price" for the introduction of the repressive anti-terrorism Bill.

The House of Lords finally agreed to the Bill early yesterday morning, allowing
it to become law once it gets the royal assent.

Home Secretary David Blunkett made minor concessions, which were designed to
clear the way for the controversial Anti-terrorism, Crime and Security Bill to
be on the statute book by Christmas.

He dropped the section outlawing incitement to religious hatred.

However, despite the concessions, the Bill gives police and security services
significantly greater powers.

It allows foreign terror suspects to be detained without trial where they cannot
be deported - those arrested will have a right to appeal, but not to a full
court of law.

However, that power will have to be renewed by Parliament after 15 months.

A spokesman for Mr Blunkett said that he was "very pleased" and felt that the
government had "largely got the Bill that it wanted."

But Mr Benn was stunned by the draconian measures, warning: "What Parliament has
just done is take away basic civil liberties under the guise of defending them.

"I never thought I would live in a period when any British government would do
what this one havs just done."

Left-wing Labour MP Jeremy Corbyn warned: "The Bill in any form is a dangerous
departure from the right of trial in a properly constituted court.

"The special tribunals without access to evidence will become the miscarriages
of justice of the future."

Fellow left MP Alan Simpson said:

"We should be horrified at the ease with which such basic human rights have been
removed."

Liberty campaigns director Mark Littlewood said: "This measure has provoked the
biggest rebellion in Parliament yet experienced by this government - and with
good reason.

"It includes a string of alarmingly repressive measures, not all of them
restricted - or even remotely connected - to tackling terrorism."

Mr Littlewood added that, although Liberty welcomed "the concessions won by the
House of Lords, the Act still includes the power to detain people indefinitely,
without charge or trial, without access to all the evidence or to judicial
review - and all this on mere suspicion.

"This remains a direct attack on an ancient principle of British justice - and
one we will seek to challenge in the courts."

Passage of the Bill also gives the green light for introduction of draconian
EU-wide laws, to which Prime Minister Tony Blair is due to sign up at the Laeken
summit this weekend.

A clause enables ministers to implement EU laws, which set a common definition
of a terrorist as anyone committing crimes "aimed at seriously altering or
destroying political, economic or social structures."

LOAD-DATE: January 1, 2002

               Copyright 2001 People's Press Printing Society Ltd

                              192 of 251 DOCUMENTS

                                  The Observer

                               December 16, 2001

Bin Laden in plot to bomb City: Terror blueprint for attack on London

BYLINE: Peter Beaumont Foreign Affairs Editor Kandahar

SECTION: Observer News Pages, Pg. 1

LENGTH: 996 words


CHILLING plans for a devastating bomb attack on the City of London have been
discovered in a terrorist base in Afghanistan, revealing a sophisticated
al-Qaeda training programme to spread its terror campaign to Britain.

The blueprint is contained in a notebook written in clear English discovered by
The Observer at an al-Qaeda camp in the former Taliban stronghold of Kandahar.

Disturbingly for British police and intelligence services, there is no
indication whether the terrorist who drew up the plan stayed to fight and die
with Osama bin Laden's group, or whether he had already left on his mission to
Britain before the suicide hijackings of 11 September and the US bombing of
Afghanistan.

In step-by-step instructions it describes how to construct a huge
remote-controlled van bomb - identical to those used by al-Qaeda against the US
embassies in Kenya and Tanzania with lethal effect in 1998.

A scribbled note on top of one page suggests the intended target was Moorgate in
the centre of London's financial district.

The discovery of the notebook comes after the US released a video, also
apparently found in an abandoned al-Qaeda base, showing a giggling bin Laden
boasting of how he had planned the suicide hijackings. It confirms a growing
body of evidence that bin Laden - who American intelligence last night said was
co-ordinating his last stand by his fighters through shortwave radio broadcasts
in the Tora Bora area - was orchestrating a global terrorism campaign against
Western interests.

But the notebook is the first hard evidence that London was also an intended
target. It appears to confirm the fears of intelligence services and the
Metropolitan Police that an al-Qaeda sleeper cell may already be in Britain
preparing an attack.

A Scotland Yard source said yesterday that The Observer's discovery in southern
Afghanistan would be investigated by anti-terrorist officers. 'We have to
recognise that there are some very big targets in the City,' he said.

Written in note form - apparently as an aide-memoire by the man who would
construct the bomb - the language used suggests that the author was a British
fundamentalist who prepared the document while training in the Sheragha Jama
district of Kandahar, an area riddled with the former homes and compounds of
al-Qaeda fighters.

Other documents found with the notebook indicate it was probably written in the
early part of this year.

Although most of the al-Qaeda camps around Kandahar had already been cleared of
their document caches by US Special Forces, The Observer came across the
padlocked compound, riddled with bunkers, when local Afghan residents led us to
it.

In one small room papers had been tossed on to a bonfire by al-Qaeda fighters
who, locals said, had abandoned the area to join the fight for the city's
airport against anti-Taliban fighters. It was here that the notebook was
discovered.

It appears to be a record of meetings between al-Qaeda's master bomb-maker and
an English-speaking activist in which he is guided through each step in building
a bomb. In places the author has revisited his notes, adding information in a
small, neat hand, often underlined, suggesting he has tried some of the
procedures in the camp, had problems and been talked through his mistakes.

The notebook is a mixture of apparently sophisticated data and simplistic
checklists consistent with the tone of documents found in the luggage of the 11
September hijackers. It provides a detailed guide about how to behave while
working under cover during the operation.

The intended target is made clear by references to what to expect when entering
Britain. The target itself is identified by scribbled notes on how to find
Moorgate, including reminders to use an A-Z and a Business Directory

The bomb-maker's guide is written by someone familiar with electrical
engineering and chemical procedures. The first of the 80 pages include
calculations of the weight of boxes of detonators and discusses safety
arrangements for handling explosives. The author lists equipment and material
needed to make the bomb, which will be installed in a van.

Under the heading 'Business Plan' he writes: 'Connect the wires properly.
Isolate connecting wires (Sellotape). Constantly refer to diag(ram), nobody work
alone, const(ant) double checking.'

One section describes a list of serial numbers, transistors and capacitors, the
exact grid location on the circuit board where they should be soldered. In one
instance the author reminds himself that a key component should be placed on the
circuit board 'head facing down, writing towards you'. Further on under the
heading Remote Control, he lists two makes of FM transmitter and receiver that
would be incorporated into the device, and describes the 'preparation of the
detonator'.

The bomb-maker discusses the best components - including the antenna and
transmitter for the 'remote control' and where to buy them. He includes
instructions for preparing each item. He ends with the 'Rules of Activation' for
the device, which uses a digital watch as a timing device. It concludes:
'Connect load. . . Turn SF2 on. Leave as fast as you can.'

The unnamed author lists how he should behave, presumably to maintain his cover
while in London. He tells himself he needs to travel and earn money, perhaps to
fund the operation. He also ticks the attributes he will need: 'confidence', 'no
panic', and 'don't be afraid'.

* MI5 has warned Ministers that a determined terrorist attempt to fly a jet into
the Sellafield nuclear plant in Cumbria could not be prevented because it is
only two minutes' flying time from transatlantic flight paths.

The warning came after RAF fighters were scrambled over the plant in response to
a reported hijack attempt last month. 'The position is unthinkable,' an
intelligence source said. 'By the time you listened to a call reporting a
hijack, it could be all over.'


LOAD-DATE: December 16, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

                   Copyright 2001 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              193 of 251 DOCUMENTS

                                  The Observer

                               December 16, 2001

War in Afghanistan: Sellafield terror attack warning

BYLINE: Ben Summerskill

SECTION: Observer News Pages, Pg. 4

LENGTH: 409 words


MINISTERS have been warned that a determined terrorist attempt to fly an
aeroplane into the Sellafield nuclear reprocessing plant could not be prevented
because of its proximity to transatlantic flight paths.

The warning, from MI5, came after Tornado fighters were scrambled over the plant
in response to a reported hijack attempt last month.

'The position at Sellafield is unthinkable,' an intelligence source confirmed.
'If it were hit successfully, everything within 150 miles could go. The position
has now been made clear to Ministers.'

'Sellafield is two minutes from the transatlantic flight path. Even if you had a
warning that a plane had been hijacked, you would have no real opportunity to
intercept a plane flying at 400 or 500 miles an hour. By the time you listened
to a call reporting the hijack, it could be all over.'

Within days of receiving the advice two weeks ago, Home Secretary David Blunkett
- piloting his new terrorism Bill through the Commons - complained: 'Those who
tell me we are not (vulnerable) are the ones who do not have the security and
intelligence information which, for my sins, I carry.'

More than 200 flights a day pass within 50 miles of Sellafield in Cumbria. They
come not just from Heathrow, but from continental Europe. Two-mile exclusion
zones are enforced around the plant, but these only apply to a height of 3,000
feet. Two miles would provide just 14 seconds warning of an approaching aircraft
flying at 500 miles an hour.

A spokesman for BNFL, which owns Sellafield, said last night: 'Our buildings are
robust and there are the strictest security arrangements. They are built to hold
radioactive material.' But a company source conceded that the possibility of an
aircraft being deliberately flown into the structures had not been considered
when they were constructed.

David Learmount, safety editor of Flight International , said: 'You may have
slightly more than two minutes, but it wouldn't be more than five. Thankfully,
however, if you dive a civil airliner very quickly, it might lose control and
miss the building.

'If however it appeared that a plane was intent upon hitting Sellafield, you
would have to attempt to blow it out of the sky altogether with the passengers.'

Environmental groups have repeatedly complained about a perceived terrorist
threat to Sellafield. Friends of the Earth have claimed that any accident could
kill two million people.


LOAD-DATE: December 16, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

                   Copyright 2001 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              194 of 251 DOCUMENTS

                                   The People

                           December 16, 2001, Sunday

BLOWS RAINED DOWN ON ME. I PUT MY HANDS TO MY HEAD & FELT A MASSIVE HOLE. BLOOD
WAS FLOWING LIKE A TAP AND I THOUGHT THIS IS THE END.I'M GOING TO DIE..;
 SINGER BRIAN HARVEY TELLS OF HIS TERROR AT HORRIFYING MACHETE ATTACK

BYLINE: Chris Tate

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 12,13

LENGTH: 955 words

HIGHLIGHT: MUTILATED; Surgeons needed all their skill to stitch together the
horrific gap in Brian's scalp (top right) when he was savagely attacked with a
razor -sharp machete after a nightclub gig. Now girlfriend Emma B; (bottom
right) is determined to help the singer make a full recovery; Pictures: JASON
BUCKNER and SIMEON FRANCIS


POP star Brian Harvey showed the hideous head wound inflicted by a machete
maniac - then spoke fully for the first time about the moment he thought he was
about to die.

He told how he slumped in a pool of his own blood as cowardly thugs rained blows
on him - and one hacked off part of his scalp in a frenzy.

"I put my hand to the back of my head and could feel a massive hole with no skin
on it," said the former East 17 lead singer. "I thought they had smashed my
brains in."

Gingerly removing a bandage to reveal the horrific six-inch stitched scar, he
added: "It felt like somebody had emptied a bucket of blood over me, but the
blows just kept coming.

"After the first flood of blood it began pouring out of my head like from a
bathroom tap. When I touched the back of my head I could feel what I now know
was my skull."

Speaking exclusively to the Sunday People, 27-year-old Brian added: "They could
easily have cut my head off. I really thought this was it and that I would end
up dead.

"When it finally ended, one of the gang shouted, 'Next time it will be guns!'
How terrifying is that."

With model girlfriend Emma B gripping his hand, the star recalled the nightmare
moment at 1am last Tuesday when he was ambushed in the street by five hefty
young men.

Brian had just left The Works nightspot in Nottingham where he got a rapturous
welcome performing his hit Loving You and other songs.

He planned to drive back to his East London home so he and Emma could celebrate
to mark their five months together.

Two girls were larking with Brian and best pal Jeff McCreadie and followed them
to the singer's silver Mercedes convertible.

Brian said:

I rang Emma on my mobile to tell her I was leaving. The girls were fooling
around and climbed into the back seat while Jeff nipped back to the club to use
the toilet.

Suddenly these blokes walked over from the direction of the club. One one of
them, a spotty guy about 6ft tall, tried to push past me and look inside the
car.

I asked him: "What are you doing?" He thrust his head up against mine without
saying a word and I pushed him back.

He said: "I know who you are. We don't want you round here thinking you're so
flash."

I told him I didn't know what he was talking about and said: "You can do
whatever you like round here."

That seemed to make him mad and he shouted: "Do I sound like I'm from round
here? I'm from Liverpool." His mates were all muscling around, saying they were
from Liverpool too.

I knew what was coming but was powerless to do anything. These blokes wanted a
fight and I felt a massive punch in my mouth.

I rolled away from that blow. But they were big blokes and I felt punches all
over me.

The car door was open and the driver's seat was folded forward. They smashed me
into the back of the car, on to the girls, who were screaming their heads off.
Then there was a huge blow to my head and there was blood everywhere, all over
the girls and the car. I was drenched in it.

I don't know what they hit me with but it sliced the skin clean off. It must
have been a razor-sharp machete, axe or a huge knife because it was a really
heavy blow.

If it had been at a different angle I believe it could have chopped my head off
because it hit me so hard.

They were shouting and swearing, bellowing like a bunch of animals. They wanted
my blood and I could do nothing to stop it.

One of the thugs took the keys out of the car's ignition but threw them on the
seat when one of the girls bravely challenged him. He spat in her face before
fleeing with his mates.

Despite his appalling injuries, Brian managed to haul himself out of the car in
time to see his attackers run off past the club.Bouncers then took him into an
office for first aid until an ambulance arrived to take him to hospital. Jeff
followed with the girls in the Mercedes.

Brian shuddered as he revealed: "Jeff dropped some money out of his pocket while
driving. One of the girls reached down to pick it up but instead got hold of the
lump of skin and hair from the back of my head.

"She wrapped it in tissue, hoping they could sew it back on. But that proved
impossible." Brian had plastic surgery at Nottingham City Hospital.

"At first the doctors told me I would have to have a skin graft taken from my
thigh," he said.

"That terrified me. Luckily they were able to draw the skin tight and stitch it
back together."

Making a grim joke, he added: "It has tightened all the skin across my face and
I've lost the lines from my forehead. I've had a free facelift on the NHS out of
this."

Brian branded his attackers "mindless scum". He said: "They were drugged up or
drunk and wanted to play at hard men and gangsters. But five against one is a
disgrace."

Police described the attack as "completely unprovoked" and are studying CCTV
film in the hope of identifying the thugs.Four men have been arrested and bailed
without charge.

Brian is trying to be philosophical about his ordeal. He said: "I suppose it was
one price to pay for a bit of fame.

"It could have been much worse and at the time I feared it might be." The singer
was swamped by cards and gifts from well-wishers but is disappointed that none
of his former East 17 chums have been in touch.

Now he plans to put the horror behind him and concentrate on rebuilding his
music career.

Brian says he is working on a new album due for release next year.

And he knows that he can always count on his beautiful girlfriend's support.

Emma, who dashed up the motorway to be at his hospital bedside as soon as she
heard of the attack, said: "The shock of what happened will hit him later. But
I'll be there for him."

LOAD-DATE: December 16, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

                            Copyright 2001 MGN Ltd.

                              195 of 251 DOCUMENTS

                          THE DAILY TELEGRAPH(LONDON)

                           December 17, 2001, Monday

Woolf attacks new terror law

BYLINE: By Joshua Rozenberg Legal Editor

SECTION: Pg. 02

LENGTH: 424 words

LORD Woolf, the Lord Chief Justice of England and Wales, will today attack the
Government's new Anti-Terrorism Act and say it damages Britain's reputation
abroad.

He discloses that he has appointed an experienced team of judges to hear
challenges by alleged foreign terrorists who may be detained here without trial.
He makes it clear that judges will release them if their detention is not based
on proper evidence.

In an interview for BBC News 24's Hardtalk programme to be broadcast this
evening, Lord Woolf says Britain has a reputation among other countries for
upholding the rule of law. Asked if that could be lost as a result of the new
legislation, Lord Woolf says: "It does damage our reputation, and I am sure that
the Government is conscious of that and Parliament is conscious of that.

"One doesn't want to have a situation of this sort. The precedents are not
auspicious. In previous wars, things have happened which, with hindsight, are
now known to have been wrong. We have to be astute to avoid that happening, so
far as possible."

The Lord Chief Justice says aspects of the Anti-Terrorism Bill, as originally
drafted, caused him "concern". He is encouraged by the fact that the legislation
will be kept under review by Parliament and hopes it will be repealed as soon as
possible.

"If the Government thinks that the legislation is no longer needed, I hope it
will be astute [enough] to take action," he tells Tim Sebastian, the programme's
presenter.

Under the legislation, special courts will hear challenges by detainees. "I am
concerned that the appeal procedures that will be involved are not those that we
normally have," says the Lord Chief Justice.

"But we have done our best to ensure that those special courts will have the
characteristics of the ordinary courts and I am happy to say that they are going
to be presided over by the very same High Court judges who would have heard
applications for judicial review." That, he says, will "mitigate the effect of
an undesirable situation".

His decision means that challenges will be heard by judges who are experienced
at striking the balance between the interests of the state and the rights of
individuals.

Lord Woolf acknowledges that detainees may only appeal further on a point of
law, but he says that "a point of law is much wider to a lawyer" than it would
seem to anyone else.

Asked if the events of September 11 have changed everything, Lord Woolf replies:
"I think we have got to be very careful in situations of this sort not to
over-react."

LOAD-DATE: December 17, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 2001 Telegraph Group Limited

                              196 of 251 DOCUMENTS

                            The Independent (London)

                           December 17, 2001, Monday

'DRACONIAN' TERROR LAW ATTACKED BY HEAD OF BAR

BYLINE: Robert Verkaik Legal Affairs Correspondent David Bean: 'Menacing noises'
made by ministers

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 481 words


THE NEW leader of the Bar, a founding member of Cherie Booth's human rights law
chambers, has attacked the Government for making "menacing noises" when judges
rule against the Government.

In his first speech as head of the barristers' professional body, David Bean QC
says he is also opposed to the methods adopted by the Home Secretary in getting
the Anti-Terrorism, Crime and Security Bill past the House of Lords.

But it is David Blunkett's hostility to the judiciary that has attracted Mr
Bean's fiercest criticism. He will tell the Bar Council today: "I am also
concerned by the menacing noises which have come from some ministers or their
spokespeople when the courts reach decisions of which they do not approve."

Many of the rulings that have drawn ministers' fire have been critical of the
Government's immigration policy. Earlier this month the High Court declared it
illegal to fine lorry drivers who are caught with stowaways in their vehicles.

Mr Blunkett also showed his displeasure when the same court said detaining
asylum-seekers in special centres was incompatible with human rights laws. This
decision was later overturned on appeal.

Mr Bean, a senior member of Matrix, the new human rights chambers he shares with
Cherie Booth QC, said: "This is not unique to the present Government: similar
noises used to be made when Michael Howard was Home Secretary ... The pattern
suggests to me that the judiciary have been doing their job properly."

Mr Bean said the anti-terror law, introduced since the 11 September attacks,
contained "draconian powers" that should not have gone before Parliament. He
said: "The House of Commons is largely acquiescent. The House of Lords protests.
Concessions are made by dropping or amending clauses that should never have been
in the Bill in the first place. It is not the first time, and I fear it will not
be the last."

Mr Bean also urges the Government to draw back from its proposals to curb the
right to jury trial or to implement the more radical recommendations contained
in Lord Justice Auld's review of the criminal courts: "If the Lord Chancellor
and Home Secretary were to promote such legislation, it would surely be that,
rather than the Human Rights Act or anything else, for which historians would
remember them."

Mr Bean also addressed equal opportunities in the profession, a subject close to
Ms Booth's heart. Last year, she called on the Bar to make itself more
accessible to working-class students and to end the domination of white, middle
-class males. She said it was not unusual for trainee barristers, or pupils, to
have debts of pounds 10,000 and one owed pounds 20,000.

Mr Bean said: "The long-term prospects for the Bar will only be good so long as
we ensure that newcomers to the profession really are the best and the
brightest, and not simply those who can afford it."

LOAD-DATE: December 17, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 2001 Independent Print Ltd

                              197 of 251 DOCUMENTS

                            South Wales Evening Post

                               December 17, 2001

Sex assault terror of teenage victim
 Girl, 17, attacked as she walked through estate

BYLINE: By Paul Lewis

SECTION: CRIME: RAPE/INDECENT, Pg.2

LENGTH: 259 words


A TEENAGE girl was dragged to the ground and sexually assaulted as she walked
through Port Talbot's Sandfields estate at night.

The 17-year-old turned up in a distraught state at a friend's house and the
friend then called the police who are now investigating.

Detectives are today hunting a tall black man in connection with the incident
and have appealed for witnesses to come forward.

They say they want to catch the attacker before he strikes again.

Head of Neath and Port Talbot CID Detective Inspector Paul Stephens said it was
being treated as a very serious incident.

The teenager was walking along a grassy area at Ffordd Ysgol, just off Dalton
Road, at around 9.45pm on Friday.

As she did so a man came up to her from behind, grabbed her and threw her to the
ground," said Mr Stephens.

The girl was then indecently assaulted before the man ran off.

Bandana

She went to a friend's house and the friend then contacted us."

Mr Stephens said the victim described her attacker as black, in his 20s, around
6ft and heavily built.

He had brown eyes and a goatee beard and was wearing a bandana.

The girl was understandably in a very distraught state though there is no
evidence that she was physically injured.

We are treating this as a very serious incident and are desperate to speak to
witnesses before this man strikes again," he said.

Given the time and location there must have been cars and people around and if
anyone saw or heard anything I want to hear from them."

(Witnesses are urged to call police on 01639 640250.

LOAD-DATE: December 18, 2001

LANGUAGE: English

                    Copyright 2001 South Wales Evening Post

                              198 of 251 DOCUMENTS

                              Western Daily Press

                               December 17, 2001

400 Airbus jobs at risk after terrorist attacks

SECTION: News, Pg.2

LENGTH: 119 words


AIRCRAFT maker Airbus has warned that up to 400 jobs at its West plant could be
at risk following the slump in the global aerospace industry.

Bosses at the European manufacturer's site at Filton, near Bristol, have met
staff and union representatives to discuss ways of cutting costs.

Options being considered include reducing the working week to 35 hours and
scrapping overtime.

But company chiefs say they cannot rule out redundancies.

A further 1,300 jobs are also under threat at the Airbus'North Wales plant.

Rolls-Royce and BAE Systems have both recently made job cuts at their aerospace
operations in Bristol following the downturn in the industry after the September
11 strikes.

LOAD-DATE: December 17, 2001

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                      Copyright 2001 Bristol United Press

                              199 of 251 DOCUMENTS

                              Western Daily Press

                               December 17, 2001

Airbus jobs hit;
 Demand drops in wake of terror attacks

BYLINE: Neil Leighton

SECTION: News :Business :Transport, Pg.20

LENGTH: 669 words


UP TO 400 jobs are at risk at the Filton plant of Airbus following the downturn
in the aerospace industry.

The European aircraft maker, which is 20 per cent owned by the UK's BAE Systems,
has told manufacturing and support staff at the site near Bristol that jobs
could go as demand for passenger jets tumbles in the wake of the U.S. terrorist
attacks.

The company, which employs 4,500 people at Filton, had planned to increase
production next year, but now says levels will fall in 2002 and again in 2003.

Up to 1,300 jobs are also under threat at the Airbus site in Broughton, North
Wales.

But engineering jobs at the Filton site are understood to be safe. Indeed,
Airbus has said it will continue to recruit engineers as it gears up for
production of the A400M military transporter and the A380 superjumbo.

An Airbus spokeswoman yesterday said management had met three times with workers
and union officials to discuss cost-cutting plans.Other meetings had been
pencilled in for coming weeks.

She stressed efforts were being made to keep job losses to a minimum.Other
options being considered include introducing a 35-hour working week and
scrapping overtime.

However, staff have been made aware that redundancies are a real threat.

"The workforce have been told that but we are working to mitigate that by
bringing in place plans for other ways of working, " the spokeswoman said.

"While we cannot say we will avoid redundancies entirely we have ways we can
dramatically reduce this number."

Airbus is just the latest victim in a long line of aerospace firms hit by the
downturn in the industry, which has been exacerbated by the fall in demand for
air travel following the attacks on New York and Washington.

Around 450 jobs are to go at engine giant RollsRoyce's plant at Patchway near
Bristol, as part of 3,800 cuts nationwide.

BAE Systems is losing 1,700 UK jobs by axing its RJX regional aircraft building
programme and cutting back its aircraft services division.

This affects 18 workers at BAE Systems' operations in Filton.

But the Airbus spokeswoman stressed the company wanted to keep hold of as many
of its workers as possible so it could react quickly to any upturn.

"The whole aim of the company is that we want to keep any impact on the
workforce at a minimum because we still have a forward order book of 1,600
aircraft, " she said.

The news comes just days after Airbus'A400M received a massive lift when the
German government agreed to buy 73 of the aircraft.It now means ministers from
the eight European countries committed to buying A400Ms can sign the official
launch of the 12 billion programme, possibly early this week.

Wings for the aircraft will be designed and built at Filton.

Airbus' other major future programme, the A380, also received a boost from
Germany last week.

National carrier Lufthansa reversed an earlier decision to scrap its commitment
to 15 of the 555 seater aircraft.

The orders bring to around 80 the number of firm commitments for the A380.

Airbus has said it needs at least 100 to make the project viable - a target it
expects to hit by the end of the current financial year.

Professor Philip Lawrence, director of the aerospace research centre at the
University of the West of England, said Airbus wanted to keep job losses to a
minimum to avoid the problems suffered by arch rival Boeing in 1997 and 1998.

The U.S. giant made massive cuts in response to a slowing orders but was then
faced with a crippling skills shortage when the market improved.

This caused costs to soar by 500 per cent.

"Airbus are going to be delivering less aircraft and they need less people on
the manufacturing lines, "Prof Lawrence said.

"But they need more people for designing and developing the A400M and A380.

"Even on the production side they are trying very hard to make sure they don't
lose capability because when it picks up again they don't want to have the
problems Boeing had."

LOAD-DATE: December 17, 2001

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                      Copyright 2001 Bristol United Press

                              200 of 251 DOCUMENTS

                     Belfast News Letter (Northern Ireland)

                           December 18, 2001, Tuesday

TWO DIE AFTER ARAFAT CALL FOR HALT TO TERROR;
 TERRORIST GROUPS REJECT PLEA TO STOP ATTACKS ON ISRAEL

SECTION: WORLD NEWS; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 603 words

HIGHLIGHT: ARAFAT: called for end to suicide attacks; WAITING: an Israeli tank
and armoured personnel carrier overlook the West Bank town of Ramallah in case
of new Palestinian attacks


ISRAELI troops shot dead two Palestinians in the West Bank yesterday, and Yasser
Arafat accused Israel of stepping up its military actions less than a day after
he made a strong appeal for an end to fighting.

In a major address on Sunday, Arafat demanded that Palestinian militants halt
suicide bombings and all other "terrorist activity" against Israel.

He also said Palestinian police would arrest those who carry out attacks, and
called for a quick resumption of peace talks.

Representatives of three Palestinian militant groups rejected Arafat's call for
a ceasefire and halt to suicide attacks.

"Nobody has the right to strip the Palestinian people of their natural right to
self defence," said Abu Imad Rifai, a Beirut spokesman for Islamic Jihad, one of
two Palestinian groups that have claimed responsibility for more than 30 suicide
bombings in Israel over the past 15 months.

Osama Hamdan, the Lebanese representative of the other group, Hamas, said
Arafat's speech amounted to "a call to end all forms of resistance".

He said: "Unfortunately, there is nothing to be had in return for that.

"The justification for the resistance is the existence of the (Israeli)
occupation and practices. Until now, there is nothing that signals that this
occupation might end or that (Israel's) practices would cease."

The day was marked by several confrontations. In addition to the shootings,
Israeli police briefly detained Sari Nusseibeh, a prominent Palestinian official
known for his advocacy of peace with Israel, while he was holding a Muslim
holiday reception in Jerusalem.

In a shooting in Hebron, the Israeli forces attempted to arrest a member of the
Hamas movement, Yacoub Aidkadik, 28, at his home, the army said. Aidkadik tried
to flee and soldiers told him to stop. He kept running and was shot dead, the
army added.

"I am sorry to say that still the Israelis are escalating their military
activities," Arafat said of the shooting. Asked if he viewed the Israeli action
as a response to his speech, Arafat replied: "It looks like that."

In a second shooting, Israeli soldiers at a post fired on two plainclothes
Palestinian policemen in an unmarked car near Nablus, killing one policeman and
wounding the second, Palestinians said. The Israeli military said only that the
soldiers fired on two armed Palestinians.

Faced with repeated Israeli military raids and increasing diplomatic pressure
from the West, Arafat's speech marked his strongest call yet for an end to the
nearly 15 months of violence.

However, it was not clear whether militant Palestinian groups would abide by
orders they have ignored in the past. Israeli Foreign Minister Shimon Peres said
Arafat appeared serious. "We'll wait a few days to see what happens," he said.

But Prime Minister Ariel Sharon's spokesman, Raanan Gissin, said the burden was
on Arafat to act.

"Don't make declarations. Start making arrests, start doing what you promised,"
Gissin said. "He has to dismantle the suicide bombers' assembly line."

Militants in the Gaza Strip and the West Bank appeared to challenge Arafat's
calls.

Throughout the latest cycle of violence, Arafat has often been evasive when
pressed about attacks by Palestinian militants. But, faced with mounting
pressure, he made an explicit call for an end to Palestinian attacks.

"I am reiterating my call for a comprehensive cessation to all the armed
activities," Arafat said from his office in the West Bank city of Ramallah. "I
call for a complete stop to all activities, especially the suicide attacks that
we condemn always."

LOAD-DATE: December 18, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

                   Copyright 2001 Century Newspapers Limited

                              201 of 251 DOCUMENTS

                          THE DAILY TELEGRAPH(LONDON)

                           December 18, 2001, Tuesday

Rings of steel to surround Games in response to terrorist attacks

BYLINE: By Tom Knight

SECTION: Pg. 05

LENGTH: 507 words

THE 3,500 athletes from 80 countries taking part in the Salt Lake City Games can
expect the highest level of security ever seen at an Olympics.

With just seven weeks to go before the opening ceremony, students at the
University of Utah's new $164 million ( pounds 117 million) housing complex can
already see the first signs of a security operation estimated to be costing more
than a quarter of a billion dollars.

On Jan 9, when the Salt Lake Organising Committee (SLOC) take possession of the
student housing, work will have finished on a 10ft high chain link perimeter
fence, including 500 security cameras, aimed at keeping all but athletes,
coaches and accredited visitors at bay.

More fences will be erected around the city and the competition venues, although
their exact location, dimensions and even colour has remained a closely guarded
secret.

Ever since 11 Israelis were killed by Palestinian terrorists at the 1972 Games
in Munich, the International Olympic Committee have made security a priority.

Americans still remember the summer Games in Atlanta, where the Centennial Park
bomb led to President Clinton establishing a safety procedure for national
security special events such as the Olympics. As a result, security in Salt Lake
City was a multi-million dollar concern even before September 11.

The 1996 Games had benefited from increased security funding because of the
Oklahoma City bombing a year earlier and the explosion which brought down TWA
flight 800 only a month before the opening ceremony. It was no surprise,
therefore, when the terrorist attacks on New York and Washington resulted in an
even greater determination to get things right in Salt Lake City.

Congressional leaders recently agreed to pour still more millions of dollars
into security measures in Utah, with the extra funds being used to pay for a
greater police presence, more metal detectors and fencing.

Even allowing for geography - Salt Lake City and Utah are far from the high
traffic areas of either coast - there will also be more funds put into securing
the airspace above the Games. The Games' official website points out that one of
the nation's largest Air Force bases, complete with a fighter aircraft wing, is
located in the Salt Lake City area.

For all their different venues, the Games will take place in a virtual security
bubble, watched over by a force of police officers and military personnel
numbering more than 7,000.

Although relatively few of what is being called "the biggest police force in
America" will be in uniform, the Utah Guard - who begin their Olympic duty in
the first week of January and who will be strengthened by 1,200 National Guard
members from 13 other states - will carry live ammunition.

With President Bush scheduled to attend the opening ceremony in the Rice-Eccles
Olympic Stadium on Feb 8, Utah's Republican senator, Bob Bennett, said: "The
event will see the most security on the planet. I can't think of any place safer
to be."
[PS]Sport: [ES]

The Winter Olympics:

LOAD-DATE: December 18, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 2001 Telegraph Group Limited

                              202 of 251 DOCUMENTS

                            The Independent (London)

                           December 18, 2001, Tuesday

CAMPAIGN AGAINST TERRORISM: AFGHAN TROOPS PREPARE FOR ATTACK ON MULLAH OMAR'S
'MOUNTAIN HIDEOUT'

BYLINE: James Palmer Mullah Mohammed Omar: Pashtuns want to hang him; Abdul
Razaq, one of the missing Taliban leaders

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 512 words


AFGHAN TROOPS are preparing to attack a mountain hideout where the Taliban
leader, Mullah Mohammed Omar, is said to have fled with 500 men.

Ten days after the fall of the Taliban stronghold of Kandahar, Mullah Omar has
been traced to a mountain redoubt northwest of the city, according to Kandahar's
intelligence chief, Haji Gullalai, who said the ethnic Pashtun forces hunting
him would hang him. "He sold out the country, he sold out our people, he sold
out Islam," he said. "He has no place to hide."

Mr Gullalai, who was appointed intelligence chief by a shura, or council of
tribal elders, last week, said Mullah Omar had fled to the mountains and caves
around Baghran in Helmand province, about 100 miles northwest of Kandahar.

"At the moment we are concentrating on stabilising Kandahar, but after two or
three days we will arrange troops to attack the districts in the northwest," Mr
Gullalai said. "We will try to surround him."

He said one of Mullah Omar's aides, Hafiz Majid, was negotiating a surrender
from Sperwan, near Kandahar, where he had been seeking guarantees he would not
be handed to the US or killed.

It is a frustrating and glaring detail of the "end-game" for the Americans that
not only Osama bin Laden but also his protector, Mullah Omar, and other figures
remain at large.

While Afghanistan's interim leader, Hamid Karzai, has thanked the superpower for
its help in prising the country from Taliban control, the United States is
vowing the war is not yet over. Almost all of the Taliban's top leaders have
escaped the campaign. In many cases, deals engineered by warlords ensured the
safety of the defeated commanders in exchange for a surrender. Mullah Omar's
army chief of staff, intelligence chief, and defence and interior ministers are
among those still free.

Afghanistan's new powerbrokers, who value tribal allegiance above international
justice, have allowed many of the militants to slip back into their communities.
The groups who fought the Taliban in the south were largely from Pashtun tribes
as were most of the Taliban fighters.

At the fall of Kunduz in the north, The Independent witnessed surrendering
Afghan Taliban being welcomed by their victors, while foreign Taliban fighters
were beaten and by some accounts executed.

Rashid Dostum, the commander who took Mazar-i-Sharif and Kunduz, apparently
allowed Fazel Ahmad Mazloom, the Taliban army chief of staff; Beradar, a deputy
defence minister, and Dadullah and Abdul Razaq Nafez, both commanders, to leave
for Kandahar after the fall of the northern cities. They are now missing.

Before the fall of Kabul last month, alliance officials drew up a list of the 12
most wanted Taliban officials. At least five are believed to have escaped to
Pakistan, Afghan intelligence officials told The Washington Post: Obaidullah
Akhund, the Taliban defence minister; Abdur Rahman Zahed, the deputy foreign
minister; Abdul Razaq, the interior minister; Akhter Mohammed Osmani, a Kandahar
military commander; and Anwar Dangar, another commander.

LOAD-DATE: December 18, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 2001 Independent Print Ltd

                              203 of 251 DOCUMENTS



                                   The Mirror

                           December 18, 2001, Tuesday

GERRY WRONG;
 IN THE AFTERMATH OF THE SEPTEMBER 11 TERROR ATTACKS, THE SINN FEIN VISIT IS, AT
THE VERY LEAST, ILL-TIMED AND ILL- JUDGED - ALEX ATTWOOD YESTERDAY ADAMS CUBAN
VISIT 'TOO SOON AFTER U.S. ATTACKS'

BYLINE: Dan Mcginn In Havana And Zoe Watson

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 434 words

HIGHLIGHT: MEETING: President Fidel Castro; CHE-RRY ADAMS; Gerry Adams and;
Gerry Kelly in Havana's Revolution Plaza yesterday


SINN Fein President Gerry Adams came under fire last night over the timing of
his visit to Cuba.

West Belfast rival Alex Attwood said the trip should have been called off after
the terror attacks on America.

Mr Adams arrived in Cuba yesterday and immediately called for the three
republicans held in Colombia on suspicion of training rebels to be freed.

But SDLP Assembly member Mr Attwood said: "In the aftermath of September 11 the
visit is, at the very least, considered ill-timed and ill-judged. The fallout
from Colombia and Cuba will be substantial and enduring, in America and in
Ireland."

Concerns were also expressed in America, where Republican congressman Peter King
said he thought the visit was a "mistake".

Mr Adams who met Jose R Dalaguer Cabrera - one of President Fidel Castro's
closest aides in the Communist Party in Havana - confirmed he had raised the
arrests in Colombia of Niall Connolly, James Monaghan and Martin McCauley.

The three were arrested for travelling on false passports and suspicion of
training members of the left-wing FARC militia.

It later emerged that Mr Connolly had been acting as Sinn Fein's representative
in Cuba.

Mr Adams said: "We raised, I raised, the issue of the three Irishmen in prison
in Colombia, and our view that they should be released."

He said that the Cubans did not make any statement on the arrests of the men.

He added: "It wasn't really a matter for them speaking out. It was me raising
the issue, as I have in support of the prisoners' families."

The arrests had threatened to overshadow the visit, placing republicans under
pressure to explain what they were doing in Colombia.

Mr Adams revealed that he discussed dealt with the problems in the peace
process. He said he had specifically raised "the problems around the corruption
of policing" in Northern Ireland.

The United States trade embargo on Cuba - which is opposed by the United Nations
- was also raised.

Mr Adams added: "We in Sinn Fein have many good friends in the USA. Both this
president and the former president, Bill Clinton, have both encouraged and
helped the peace process back home.

"At the same time I have expressed major concern that there should be dialogue
between the people of Cuba and the people of the USA and that the blockade
should be ended." Mr Adams, who is accompanied on the visit by North Belfast
Assembly member Gerry Kelly, laid a wreath in memorial to the 19th century Cuban
revolutionary hero and poet Jose Marti.

Mr Adams is due to meet Cuban President Fidel Castro in Havana today.

LOAD-DATE: December 18, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                            Copyright 2001 MGN Ltd.

                              204 of 251 DOCUMENTS

                     Belfast News Letter (Northern Ireland)

                          December 19, 2001, Wednesday

INDIA TERRORIST ATTACK 'TARGETED POLITICIANS'

SECTION: WORLD NEWS; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 212 words


THE five men who attacked India's parliament last week meant to wipe out the
country's top politicians, home minister Lal K Advani said yesterday.

In the first extensive address to the nation since last Thursday's attack in
which eight people were killed, Advani told the parliament in New Delhi that if
security officers had been unable to keep the attackers out of the building, "it
could have been an utter catastrophe".

Outlining the details of the attack and the police investigation which had been
previously reported, Advani said the attack "was clearly aimed at wiping out the
country's top political leadership".

He repeated India's claim that the attack was carried out by Pakistan-based
militant groups fighting to separate northern Kashmir from India.

"It is now evident that the terrorist assault on Parliament House was executed
jointly by Pak-based terrorist outifts, Jaish-e-Mohammed and Lashkar-e
-Tayyaba," Advani said in a speech broadcast live on television.

"The investigation by police shows all the five terrorists that formed the squad
were Pakistani nationals," he said.

Pakistan's government has denied India's allegations and said it would consider
action against anyone based in Pakistan if India provided proof.

LOAD-DATE: December 19, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

                   Copyright 2001 Century Newspapers Limited

                              205 of 251 DOCUMENTS

                             The Guardian (London)

                               December 19, 2001

War in Afghanistan: Terror strike: Yemen attacks suspect villages:12 killed as
action enters new phase

BYLINE: Ewen MacAskill and Ian Black in Brussels

SECTION: Guardian Home Pages, Pg. 4

LENGTH: 616 words


The US-led war against terrorism entered a new phase yesterday when military
action switched from Afghanistan to Yemen, where government forces used tanks,
helicopters and artillery to storm mountain villages suspected of harbouring
Osama bin Laden's al-Qaida network.

In the first strike since September 11 by an Arab government against al-Qaida,
12 people were reported killed and 22 wounded in fighting in the Marib province,
a wild and unruly mountain region that Yemeni government forces are normally
wary of entering.

The US and Britain provided surveillance and other intelligence help.

One of the men targeted in the operation, though he is thought to have escaped,
was on a list of three names supplied by US officials last month to the
president of Yemen, Ali Abdullah Salih, during a visit to Washington which
included an Oval Office meeting with the US president, George Bush.

Tribesmen responded with heavy gunfire and rocket-propelled grenades in a three-
hour battle in which at least three village houses were destroyed and several
military vehicles damaged.

The sources said government forces later entered the village to search for two
or three suspected militant leaders and their followers.

The US and Britain welcomed the military action. Signalling a hawkish approach
to the next stage of the campaign against terrorism, Donald Rumsfeld, the US
defence secretary, said after a Nato meeting in Brussels: "The only way to deal
with a terrorist network is to go after it wherever it is." He singled out Yemen
but also mentioned Sudan and Somalia.

Mr Rumsfeld said London, Paris or Berlin could be attacked if terrorism was not
defeated: "As we look at the devastation they unleashed in the United States,
contemplate the destruction they could wreak in New York, or London, or Paris,
or Berlin, with nuclear, chemical or biological weapons."

As the first Arab country to take decisive action against terrorism under the US
umbrella, Yemen has made a symbolic shift, becoming the first Muslim country to
take action against fellow Muslims.

The Yemen government, which has been tolerant of al-Qaida forces in its country
in the past, was forced to make a choice after September 11. Rather than face a
US onslaught, Mr Salih opted to cooperate with Washington. As part of the deal
agreed with Mr Bush, Mr Salih accepted US aid in return for promising to round
up al-Qaida members. The Yemen government had been uncooperative with the US in
its hunt for those responsible for a suicide attack on the USS Cole while it was
docked in Yemen last year. Seventeen servicemen were killed. The FBI pulled out
of Yemen complaining about obstruction.

Since September 11 the government has made a huge tactical change and decided
that al-Qaida was, after all, responsible, and the FBI is expected to return.

A security source in the Yemen government said its forces had gone after five
men, including a tribal chief who was on the US wanted list, and several men who
had fought against Soviet forces in Afghanistan in the 1980s.

Government forces negotiated with the tribesmen for two days but they refused to
hand over the wanted men. In remarks interpreted as being directed at Iraq, Mr
Rumsfeld told fellow ministers at Nato headquarters: "It should be of particular
concern to all of us that the list of countries which today support global
terrorism overlaps significantly with the list of countries that have weaponised
chemical and biological agents, and which are seeking nuclear, chemical and
biological weapons, and the means to deliver them."

Interactive guide to possible US targets guardian.co.uk/afghanistan/ interactive


LOAD-DATE: December 19, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 2001 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              206 of 251 DOCUMENTS

                              The Herald (Glasgow)

                               December 19, 2001

Yemeni forces mount attack on terrorists

BYLINE: Ian Bruce Geopolitics Editor

SECTION: Pg. 9

LENGTH: 720 words


Raid urged by US marks extension of military action beyond Afghanistan

YEMENI special forces acting at the request of the White House yesterday stormed
a tribal hideout of five Islamic militants suspected of having links to Osama
bin Laden's al Qaeda terrorist network.

The three-hour attack, carried out with artillery and tank support, killed five
Abida tribesmen in the remote Marib province 100 miles east of Sana'a, the
capital, and marked the first expansion of the war against international
terrorism beyond Afghanistan.

The US last month offered to train local Yemeni troops for counter-insurgency
operations against pockets of al Qaeda fighters believed to be using the country
as a safe haven and training base. A Yemeni army spokesman said yesterday's
battle broke out when tribal chiefs refused to hand over the wanted men,
including a leading member of Egypt's outlawed Islamic Jihad organisation.

The suspects were identified by George W Bush, the US president, during a visit
last month to Washington by Ali Abdullah Saleh, Yemen's head of state.

The men escaped in the confusion of the firefight and were last night being
hunted in the mountains of the al-Halsun region.

Yemeni forces, aided by covert US Green Beret commando teams, have been combing
the eastern Shabwa, Marib and al-Jouf provinces for two weeks to locate
suspected refuges for the al Qaeda fighters fleeing Afghanistan.

The poverty-stricken country located at the barren southern tip of the Arabian
peninsula has long been regarded as a haven for Islamic extremists. Many are
veterans of the jihad (holy war) against Soviet forces in Afghanistan in the
1980s, and now enjoy the protection of tribal leaders who do not recognise the
authority of the ruling regime in San'a.

Terrorists suspected of acting on Osama bin Laden's orders last year mounted a
suicide attack against the USS Cole, a destroyer refuelling in the port of Aden,
killing 17 American sailors.

Both the FBI, who investigated the bombing, and the CIA, claim that al Qaeda has
long operated training camps in the remote and lawless Yemeni hinterland. At
least one of the men behind the attack is believed to be a non-Yemeni Arab
trained in Afghanistan.

US warships have been patrolling the coastal waters off Arabia for the last two
months to prevent the entry of terrorist leaders, and perhaps bin Laden himself.
Yemen is his family's original homeland. His father was born in the country's
Hadramout region before moving to Saudi Arabia, and the clan still has relatives
there.

Marib province, where yesterday's action took place, is the wildest of Yemen's
tribal strongholds and home to four powerful warring clans.

Since 1990, tribesmen have kidnapped and ransomed more than 100 foreigners who
ventured into their territory. Tourists on extreme adventure holidays have also
been captured and exchanged for government aid.

Non-Yemenis who are passing through the province are now required to travel in
convoys escorted by heavily-armed government soldiers.

The Yemeni government is the first on a potential US target list, which includes
Somalia and Sudan, to seek direct American aid in combating terrorists operating
from its soil.

Bin Laden used Sudan as his personal base until he was forced by US diplomatic
pressure to move into exile in Afghanistan in 1995.

The Saudi dissident is still believed to have lucrative business interests
there, which are used to help fund his global terrorist network.

Somalia, where the newly-established central government's writ does not run much
beyond the streets of Mogadishu, the capital, is host to several al Qaeda
training camps in areas controlled by local warlords.

The US said the militia which ambushed US Rangers in Mogadishu's back alleys in
1993, killing 18 and wounding more than 70, were trained and led by bin Laden's
men.

Meanwhile, intelligence and law enforcement officials believe the potential
remains high for another terror attack, despite the passing of the Muslim
holiday, and have re-issued their warning to remain in effect at least through
the current Jewish and Christian holiday seasons. Gordon Johndroe, the homeland
security office spokesman, said yesterday: "The alert remains in effect because
the threat still remains."

LOAD-DATE: December 19, 2001

LANGUAGE: English

GRAPHIC: WHEN IN AFGHANISTAN: An American soldier rides on horseback during a
traditional game called buzkashi near Mazar-e-Sharif. Participants are supposed
to pick up a dead calf and place it in a scoring area in the field. To many
Afghans, buzkashi is not just a game, it is a way of life, in which teamwork and
communication are essential to being successful. Picture: Maxim Marmur/AP

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                Copyright 2001 Scottish Media Newspapers Limited

                              207 of 251 DOCUMENTS

                            The Independent (London)

                          December 19, 2001, Wednesday

CAMPAIGN AGAINST TERRORISM: YEMEN ATTACKS AL-QA'IDA HIDEOUT AS HUNT SPREADS;
 CAMPAIGN AGAINST TERRORISM

BYLINE: Andrew Buncombe In Washington Al-Qa'ida fighters are thought to be
hiding in the uplands of central Yemen, right

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 535 words


SPECIAL FORCES in Yemen attacked suspected al-Qa'ida Islamic militants yesterday
in a widening of the campaign against Osama bin Laden's network. The United
States was believed to have provided names of suspects to Yemen.

Up to 12 people were killed and 22 injured in fighting between tribesmen and
Yemeni forces trying to find five individuals in the al-Halsun region of Marib
province, 100 miles east of the capital, San'a. Despite more than two hours of
bombardment, using tanks, helicopters and artillery, the soldiers did not trace
the men, although the search was continuing. A number of tribesmen suspected of
hiding the wanted men were arrested.

The special forces unit was the first to graduate from an American-funded
programme to train and equip Yemen's security forces.

Yemen has been identified by Donald Rumsfeld, the US Defence Secretary, as a
potential target, with Somalia and Sudan, as America continues to try to weed
out al-Qa'ida operatives outside Afghanistan.

Sources in Yemen told Reuters that at least one of the men being sought was on a
list of suspected al-Qa'ida members passed to the Yemeni President, Field
Marshal Ali Abdullah Saleh, when he visited Washington last month.

The sources said the operation in Yemen was launched after Abida tribesmen
refused to hand over the individuals despite two days of negotiations.

America has long identified Yemen - the birthplace of Mr bin Laden's father - as
a country with al-Qa'ida cells. The network admitted responsibility for the bomb
attack on the USS Cole while it was docked at the southern Yemeni port of Aden
in October last year, in which 17 sailors died.

The Pentagon declined to comment on the operation yesterday. Exactly how the US
was involved was unclear, but in October an American special forces commander
met his Yemeni counterparts to discuss military co-operation. Rear-Admiral
Albert Calland, commander of special operations at the US Central Command, held
discussions with General Mohammed Ali al-Qassemi, the Yemeni Chief of Staff,
which looked at "exchanges of expertise" between the countries. The American
commander also visited the special forces headquarters and watched some military
demonstrations.

Although Yemen has declared its backing for the international anti- terror
campaign after the attacks of 11 September, yesterday's operation appears to
have been linked to the Yemeni President's visit to Washington, when President
George Bush told Field Marshal Saleh that their countries needed to increase
co-operation on intelligence-sharing and law enforcement.

Yemen said earlier this month that it was hunting down two senior tribesmen who
the Americans suspected of being al-Qa'ida agents. Edward Hull, the American
ambassador in San'a, told a Yemeni government newspaper that Washington knew
that al-Qa'ida had cells in Yemen.

Yemen's government recently stepped up pressure on tribes implicated in or
suspected of kidnapping foreigners, who are used as bargaining chips to press
for government aid and better living conditions. Most recently, a German
businessman was kidnapped last month by tribesmen in Marib province, and
released unharmed on 8 December.

LOAD-DATE: December 19, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 2001 Independent Print Ltd

                              208 of 251 DOCUMENTS

                                  Morning Star

                               December 19, 2001

India blames Pakistan for terror attack;

SECTION:  Pg. 3

LENGTH: 275 words


INDIA accused Pakistan yesterday of trying to wipe out its political leadership
in last week's suicide attack on parliament because Islamabad could not accept a
powerful and secular neighbour.

But, in a speech to parliament, Interior Minister Lal Krishna Advani stopped
short of announcing retaliation against Pakistan.

Mr Advani said that Pakistan was waging a systematic campaign of terrorism
against India.

Pakistan denies involvement in the attack or supporting terrorism and has
proposed a joint investigation into the raid which killed 13 people, including
the five assailants.

"This time, the terrorists and their mentors across the border had the temerity
to try to wipe out the entire political leadership of India, " he said.

Mr Advani questioned the timing of the raid, which took place amid the US-led
attacks on Afghanistan.

"The only answer is that Pakistan, itself a theocratic state with an extremely
tenuous tradition of democracy, is unable to reconcile itself with the reality
of a secular, democratic, selfconfident and steadily progressing India."

India has already called on Islamabad to close down the Lashkar-e-Taiba and
Jaish-eMohammed - two of several Pakistan-based groups fighting Indian rule in
the Himalayan region of Kashmir - which it says are linked to Pakistan's main
intelligence agency Inter-Services Intelligence (ISI).

Police said that the parliamentary assailants were all Pakistanis.

They have also arrested four Indians, including a man that they say killed a
passenger in the 1999 hijacking of an Indian Airlines jet that ended when India
freed pro-Pakistani militants.

LOAD-DATE: January 1, 2002

               Copyright 2001 People's Press Printing Society Ltd

                              209 of 251 DOCUMENTS

            UK Newsquest Regional Press - This is Brighton and Hove

                               December 19, 2001

Woman's terror in night attack.

BYLINE: Phil Mills

SECTION: News

LENGTH: 206 words


A 24-year-old office worker was punched nine times in the face and head during a
15-minute attack. She was returning to a friend's home in Brighton after a party
when she spotted a man in the front garden. She said: "I asked him what he was
doing and he just lunged at me and laid into me, hitting me repeatedly in the
eye and head." The attacker pushed her to the ground and she thought he was
going to rape her. She said: "He lay on top of me and put his hand over my mouth
and nose. I could hardly breath." The man said he was not a rapist but he forced
her over on to her stomach and, again, she thought she would be raped. She said:
"I was terrified but then I realised he turned me over so I would not see his
face as he fled." The man ran off with GBP 10 from her purse and the victim's
friend, who witnessed part of the attack from a window of the house, called the
police. The woman, who wants to be known as Marie, is an Australian living in
Cardiff. She said: "It was horrific but I would like to meet him so I could ask
him 'why?'" The attack happened during the early hours of Sunday morning at the
junction of Ditchling Road and Prince's Crescent and police are appealing for
witnesses. A man has been charged.

LOAD-DATE: December 19, 2001

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: News

                  Copyright 2001 NewsQuest Media Group Limited

                              210 of 251 DOCUMENTS

                                  Western Mail

                          December 19, 2001, Wednesday

OPERATOR BLAMES HATFIELD FOR LOSSES;
 RAILWAYS: TERROR ATTACKS ALSO HIT BUSINESS HARD

SECTION: BUSINESS; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 296 words


TRAIN operator GB Railways has blamed post-Hatfield disruption for contributing
to halfyear losses of pounds 1.8m.

GB said its main commuter service, Anglia Railways, had effectively lost a
year's revenue growth because of the accident last year.

The company added its plight had been further hurt by the impact of the
terrorist attacks of September 11 as passengers postponed trips to London.

GB's pre-tax loss for the six months to September 30 compares with a loss of
pounds 2.1m in the same period a year earlier.

In June, the group announced a full-year loss of pounds 3.3m.

Chairman Allen Sheppard said, "Anglia Railways continued to suffer the
consequence of the Hatfield accident in October 2000.

"This has meant that passenger income has shown no growth compared to the same
period last year."

He added that signs of a revival in leisure and business passenger demand during
the summer had been curtailed by events on September 11.

The latest figures from GB show the group received a pounds 1.9m settlement from
Railtrack because of the Hatfield disruption.

GB said it would also continue to chase compensation for business interruption
from its insurers.

Other services offered more encouragement for GB, with Hull Trains reporting
improved revenues despite the impact of the Hatfield crash.

The service is now expected to break into an operating profit in the next
financial year.

GB's freight business has also exceeded expectations for profit, cash flow and
performance during its first six months of existence.

Meanwhile, the group confirmed that talks with a number of parties which may
lead to a takeover or investment in the company were continuing.

GB said in October that it was involved in discussions.

LOAD-DATE: December 19, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: TRAGEDY: The scene near Hatfield in Hertfordshire after a high-speed
train derailed and at least one coach overturned

                    Copyright 2001 Western Mail and Echo Ltd

                              211 of 251 DOCUMENTS

                            Evening Times (Glasgow)

                               December 20, 2001

That was 7:84 news that was;Writers were rocked by the terror attacks in America
but knew that somehow the show had to go on

BYLINE: Ann Fotheringham

SECTION: Pg. 26

LENGTH: 479 words


IF a week is a long time in politics, 12 months is an eternity. But the daunting
task of writing a satirical news review based on the events of 2001 has been
tackled head-on by 7:84, for their latest show The News at When?

But, as Scots writer and performer Carolyn Bonnyman explained, things got off to
a shaky start.

"We'd all been keeping an eye on the news, and storing up press cuttings
throughout the summer, planning to meet up in Glasgow for three days of
development work in the autumn," explained Carolyn, who is now based in London.
"And the date of our first meeting? September 12."

She grimaced: "The day after those horrible events in America, I had to get on a
plane, fly up to Glasgow and sit down with Anita Vettesse and Callum Cuthbertson
to think up funny things to say about what was happening in the news."

Carolyn added: "It was very hard - but we thought about it, and realised we just
had to get on with it."

While acknowledging that any news review show of the year could hardly fail to
mention the events of September 11, Carolyn admitted it was hard to know how to
tackle it.

"It's the biggest thing to happen since the Second World War, never mind this
year, in my opinion, so we obviously couldn't ignore it," explained Carolyn.

"But, of course, there are no jokes in the show about what happened to the
people in America, but since then, there has been plenty satire in things
arising from those events.

"It did put a damper on those first few days, as we were as stunned as everyone
else by what had happened, but we got on with writing the show, and pretty soon
we realised there were many other things in the year's news to laugh at - like
Jeffrey Archer, for example."

The disgraced Tory MP joins a long list of victims who feel the wrath of 7:84 in
this caustic mix of sketches and songs. Prince Edward, the Hamiltons, Darius,
William Hague - even the foot and mouth crisis - come under fire.

"So much has happened recently, that you forget there was a such a lot of other
news in 2001," explained Carolyn.

"The difficulty with writing a topical show is that things keep happening."

She grinned: "You think you're finished, and then, oh my God, along comes Jack
McConnell!

"So you're constantly updating it."

The three actors enjoyed the challenge of writing the show, although Carolyn
already has a number of writing credits under her belt, including the plays
Always On My Mind for Radio 4, and Black Dog for Paines Plough Theatre Company,
and, for ITV, the new soap Night And Day and drama series Where The Heart Is.

"Writing political sketches is new for me," she explained. "I like acting and
writing for different reasons, and in an ideal world, would love to spend my
time doing both."

The News at When? completes its tour at the Tron Theatre, from tonight until
Saturday.

LOAD-DATE: December 21, 2001

LANGUAGE: English

GRAPHIC: REVIEW OF THE YEAR: Carolyn Bonnyman outside the Tron Picture Martin
Shields

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                Copyright 2001 Scottish Media Newspapers Limited

                              212 of 251 DOCUMENTS

                             The Guardian (London)

                               December 20, 2001

Eight held in anti-terrorist raids: Civil rights groups attack first use of new
act as unjust

BYLINE: Owen Bowcott

SECTION: Guardian Home Pages, Pg. 2

LENGTH: 733 words


Immigration officers yesterday detained eight alleged international terrorists
during dawn raids on homes in London, the West Midlands and Luton, triggering
threats of an "Islamic backlash" and a row over the government's first use of
new powers to imprison suspects without trial.

Those taken into custody were not named by the Home Office, which coordinated
the operation, but they are mainly Algerians, Moroccans and Egyptians. Last
night they were being held in two high security prisons - Belmarsh, in
south-east London, and Woodhill, near Milton Keynes.

Despite speculation about who would be rounded up when the Anti-Terrorism, Crime
and Security Act came into force, none of the high-profile Islamic
fundamentalist leaders from groups such as al-Muhajiroun or the Supporters of
Shariah is believed to have been seized.

Sheikh Omar Bakri Muhammad, the founder and international leader of
al-Muhajiroun, was said yesterday to be on holiday. Despite speculation that he
was one of those under surveillance, he was not believed to have been among
those arrested.

Another cleric who has courted controversy through his militant Islamic views,
Abu Hamza al-Masri of Finsbury Park mosque in north London, was not among those
detained. A spokesman for the Supporters of Shariah said: "He's a British
national and can't be arrested under this law which is racist. It is only
directed against Muslims."

There were claims last night that, despite earlier denials from al-Muhajiroun,
Abu Qatada, who has been named as a "key contact of Osama bin Laden in Britain,
had been detained. He has been described as al-Qaidas spiritual leader in Europe
and was on the list of suspected Islamist terrorists issued by the United
Nations after September 11.

Mr Qatada, 40, set up home in London with his wife and four children eight years
ago when he was given asylum after claiming that he had been persecuted in
Jordan for his religious beliefs. Since then he has been convicted in Jordan for
funding a bombing campaign there, and given a 15-year term in his absence.

The raids came as Scotland Yard confirmed that a British police team has
travelled to the Middle East to gather intelligence about suicide bombings to
avert any such attacks on Britain. Although there was no evidence of immediate
danger, officers are keen to learn from Israel how it combats the threat.

All those detained yesterday are Arab men; five were taken into custody in
London, two in Luton and one in Birmingham. Under the act, which was given royal
assent on Monday, the home secretary, David Blunkett, can order their "extended
detention" if they are "suspected international terrorists.

Civil rights groups such as Liberty have condemned the law as internment under
another name and pledged to challenge it in the European court of human rights
at Stras bourg. For the law to pass, Britain was required to "derogate, or
withdraw, from article five of the European convention on human rights, which
prohibits imprisonment without a fair trial.

The convention permits governments to opt out of the clause at "times of war or
other public emergencies. But John Wadham, the director of Liberty, said
yesterday: "We pride ourselves on our traditions of fairness and justice. By
locking people up without clear evidence or access to a proper trial, the
government is violating those traditions N Imprisoning people without trial
remains utterly unjust.

The London solicitor Gareth Peirce yesterday confirmed that she was representing
"more than one" of those detained. She said her clients were not seeking to
publicise their names.

"Some of those arrested include individuals who have never been interviewed by
police and are now being held in category A prison units," she said. "(The
government) is resorting to the worst of medieval practices." A number of the
detainees have previously been given exceptional leave to remain by the
immigration service.

Under the Anti-Terrorism, Crime and Security Act detainees are entitled to a
bail hearing and if not released they can appeal to the special immigration
appeals commission. They are also free to leave Britain "at any time" if another
country will take them.

War in Afghanistan, pages 11-12

Jeremy Seabrook, page 15

Seumas Milne, page 16

Special report on Britain after September 11 at guardian.co.uk/ukresponse


LOAD-DATE: December 20, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 2001 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              213 of 251 DOCUMENTS

                            The Independent (London)

                          December 20, 2001, Thursday

CAMPAIGN AGAINST TERRORISM: CAPTIVE AL-QAI'DA FIGHTERS ATTACK PAKISTANI GUARDS

BYLINE: Peter Popham In Delhi

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 730 words


AT LEAST 10 people were reported to have been killed in Pakistan's North West
Frontier Province yesterday after al-Qa'ida fighters who had been detained while
trying to enter Pakistan rebelled and began attacking their guards.

The fighters, mostly Arabs, many from Yemen, had crossed from Afghanistan's Tora
Bora region into the Parrot's Beak, a peninsula of Pakistan territory that
protrudes into Afghanistan, to escape American bombing of the White Mountains,
where Osama bin Laden was believed to be holed up in a complex of caves.

Pakistani regular soldiers and paramilitaries sent into the autonomous tribal
areas that line the Pakistani side of the border had captured 156 of the
guerrillas and were transporting them from Parachinar to the nearest secure jail
in the garrison town of Kohat when the violence flared. A group of captives
screamed "Allahu akbar" (God is greatest), grabbed their guards' weapons and
opened fire.

A Pakistani journalist in Parachinar said that six guards and four prisoners
died in the ensuing gunfight, and at least 42 prisoners made off in four vans.
Tribal police and Pakistani soldiers gave chase, recapturing 13 and surrounding
the remaining 29, who were said last night to be under attack from tribal
fighters and Pakistan's helicopter gunships.

The bloody escape attempt was a reminder of the problems faced by the Americans
and their allies as they try to mop up the remnants of al-Qa'ida and hunt down
its ringleader, Mr bin Laden.

The Durand Line, which divides Afghanistan from the North West Frontier
Province, has never been recognised by any Afghan regime, and Pashtuns,
identical in appearance, language and customs, habitually cross from one side to
the other without hindrance.

To hold back the al-Qa'ida fighters, Pakistan has poured thousands of soldiers
into the areas and set up 300 checkpoints. Helicopter gunships are patrolling
the line.

Before yesterday's fighting erupted, Pakistan claimed to have captured at least
108 fighters fleeing Tora Bora, at least 60 of them Arabs and other non
-Afghans. But the border has no fences, and guerrillas with good guides and
better luck still stand a chance of slipping through the Pakistani net.

Western and Pakistani officials admitted on Tuesday that hundreds of Taliban and
al-Qa'ida fighters had already managed to cross the border and many Taliban
leaders had also melted away.

Even before the start of the US bombing campaign in early October, the popular
mood among Pakistani Pashtuns in these tribal areas was violently pro-Taliban
and anti-American. The small town of Hangu, for example, outside the tribal area
but close to the Parrot's Beak, was one of the few towns in Pakistan where
anti-American protests culminated in shops being burnt down and policemen
killed. Demonstrations were stifled by the simple measure of putting police
machine-gun emplacements on the roofs of the bazaar.

But though local solidarity with the Taliban is beyond doubt, whether such
support extends to the Arab fighters roundly loathed by ordinary Afghans while
the Taliban were still in power is unclear.

As Pakistan struggled to contain the new influx, on the Afghan side of the
border American forces continued to lead an intensive search for

al-Qa'ida stragglers and hold-outs, flying helicopters through the White
Mountains on night missions while Afghan fighters swept cave hide-outs for
guerrillas and documents.

What is becoming clear is that while Taliban rule has been wiped out and al
-Qa'ida's infrastructure pulverised, hundreds of Taliban and al- Qa'ida
loyalists have melted into the awesome topography. Either they have vanished
into Pakistan to give its leader, the stalwart American ally General Pervez
Musharraf, a severe headache, or they are hiding in Afghanistan's mountains to
make the prospect of a safe, secure rule at any time soon seem increasingly
remote.

During the mujahedin's struggle against the Soviet invaders, the Parrot's Beak
was the mujahedin's main supply route from Pakistan. The disposition of friends
and enemies has altered drastically, but the ground realities of Afghan warfare
remain unchanged. That is the bleak and forbidding security background against
which Britain is preparing this week to send Royal Marines, as part of the
planned international force to bring peace to Afghanistan.

LOAD-DATE: December 31, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 2001 Independent Print Ltd

                              214 of 251 DOCUMENTS

                          THE JOURNAL (Newcastle, UK)

                     December 20, 2001, Thursday Edition 1

India threatens war over terrorist attack

BYLINE: By The Journal

SECTION: NEWS, Pg. 40

LENGTH: 417 words


   .




India's prime minister has warned that war against Pakistan could be the
response to the terrorist attack on parliament in New Delhi last week and moved
tanks to the border.

Atal Bihari Vajpayee said the government would first seek a peaceful resolution
to the suicide attack by men he says were Pakistan-based militants. But if that
failed, it could well resort to war. "We are trying to address this
diplomatically, but other options are also open too," he told parliament in a
debate on the assault on the world's largest democracy, which left 13 people
dead.

India accused Pakistan of sponsoring the suicide attackers and demanded that the
Islamabad government shut down two militant groups blamed for the attack, freeze
their assets, arrest their leaders and extradite them.

Pakistan denied the allegations, demanding proof before acting against militants
on its territory. Islamabad said it was ready to respond in kind if India opted
for war.

Despite the bellicose language and troop movements toward the frontier, analysts
in both countries felt a fourth war between the nuclear-armed neighbours was
unlikely. But some military action by India could not be ruled out.

After a similar suicide attack on the Kashmir state assembly that killed 40
people last October, India's army bombarded Pakistani positions for hours.

Home Minister Lal Advani said: "If such attacks continue, there cannot be peace
between India and Pakistan," as parliament adjourned until next year to avoid
raising contentious political issues during a security crisis.

The Indian army said it had damaged six Pakistani army bunkers in heavy firing
across the border yesterday, but it seemed to be a routine exchange between the
forces that have been enemies since their independence from Britain in 1947.

Amitabh Mattoo, professor of international disarmament and national security at
Jawaharlal Nehru University in New Delhi, said: "What India is signalling is
that its patience has almost run out and unless, even at this 11th hour,
Pakistan acts to stop the terrorists, then there will be some sort of military
response."

An Associated Press reporter in Punjab yesterday saw Indian tanks, anti-aircraft
guns and mortars moving toward the border. Young women and children waved as
troop carriers passed.

If the war option "is exercised by India, then it will be paid back in the same
coin," said Pakistan government spokesman Anwar Mahmood.

LOAD-DATE: December 26, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                Copyright 2001 Newcastle Chronicle & Journal Ltd

                              215 of 251 DOCUMENTS



                                   The Mirror

                          December 20, 2001, Thursday

100 DAYS ON FROM SEPTEMBER 11, WE REMEMBER THE BRITISH AND IRISH VICTIMS OF THE
TERROR ATTACKS

BYLINE: Claire Donnelly, Clare Goldwin, Jo Merrett, Emma Hibbs

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 17,18,19

LENGTH: 4161 words


Ruth McCourt, Juliana McCourt, Derek Sword, Ronnie Gilligan, Nigel Thompson,
Sarah Redheffer, Michelle Duberry, Simon Turner, Kieran Gorman, Martin Coughlan,
Patrick Currivan, Robert Eaton, Cpt Timothy Stackpole, Ann-Marie McHugh, Richard
Cudina, Howard Selwyn, Catherine James, Christopher Newton-Carter, Simon
Maddison, Dinah Webster, Neil Cudmore, Martin Wortley, Andrew Bailey, Gavin
Cushny, Neil R Wright, Elisa Ferraina, Michael Egan, Christine Egan, Andrew
Gilbert, Timothy Gilbert, Geoff Campbell, Richard Dawson, Michael Cunningham,
Bella Bhukhan, Ben Walker, Graham Berkeley, Vincent Wells, Oliver Bennett, Paul
Bristow, Karlie Rogers, Kevin Dennis, Ian Gray, Stephen Morris, Nicholas John,
Colonel Richard Rescorla, Eamon McEneaney, Joanne Cregan, Jim Walsh, Damien
Meehan, Sean Canavan, Gerald Fisher, David Rathkey, Jonathan Uman, Gavin
McMahon, Robin Larkey, Melanie de Vere, Michael Lomax, Ian Thompson, Paul Gilbey

RUTH McCOURT, 44 AND JULIANA McCOURT,4

One hundred days on from September 11, the pain is still as deep as ever.

People from more than 80 countries were killed in the devastating terrorist
attacks in America, yet to this day there is still no definitive list or number
of the British and Irish citizens who perished.

Around 60 are known to have died - fathers, mothers, brothers, sisters and
children... familiar faces that won't be around this Christmas. Here, The Mirror
pays tribute by offering a glimpse into the lives of the people from these
shores who didn't come back.

Hairdresser Ruth had two great passions in life: her family - husband Dave and
daughter Juliana - and her work. Her bubbly personality helped her make a
success of the beauty business she set up in Boston.

Ruth loved cooking and shopping and was on her way to Los Angeles when her plane
was hijacked and crashed into the World Trade Center on live TV.

Although America was her adopted home, her heart belonged to Ireland and she
went home as often as she could.

Her brother Mark said of his sister, originally from Cork, says: "Ruth stood for
colour in life, not the black-and-white scenario a lot of people live with,
either friend or foe." Of his niece - known to the her family as Miss J - he
says simply: "she was beautiful".

ANDREW BAILEY, 29

Andrew worked on the 93rd floor of the WTC's North Tower and is one of 700
employees from insurance broker Marsh McLellan still unaccountated for.

Andrew was brought up in Birmingham and emigrated to the US in his teens. He met
wife Miosotys Fernandez, also 29, on a blind date and the couple had four
daughters.

The keep-fit fan - known to friends as a sport-mad gentle giant - worked out
each morning, always met Miosotys for lunch and then raced home to be with his
family each evening.

GRAHAM

BERKELEY, 37

Graham was a director for a computer company, but his friends best remember him
as a classical violinist, an opera buff and a world traveller.

His parents live in Shrewsbury, Shropshire, but he had spent 10 years in the US
and became an American citizen in June.

He was on a business trip aboard United Airlines Flight 175 when it was
hijacked.

His friend Christian Winslow said: "He loved the freedom of America, the
openness of our society. America was Graham's land of endless opportunities."

BELLA BHUKAN, 24

Bella was the youngest of three sisters and was the most playful, the most
stubborn - and in many ways, the most western.

Raised in a Gujarati family who settled in New Jersey after migrating from
Zambia, she had many relatives in north London.

As the defiant member of her household she once returned from a Mexico holiday
with a tattoo on her lower back.

Yet she also embraced her Indian heritage, performing a traditional dance at her
eldest sister Vicky's wedding. She died in the North Tower.

GEOFF CAMPBELL, 31

GEOFF met his fiancee after she ribbed him about his English accent.

Caroline Burbank recalls how she met the Reuters worker in a midtown bar one
evening soon after his arrival in the States two years ago.

But her jokes didn't put him off and afterwards they sent each other emails and
he asked her out.

Geoff later proposed and last August took her to visit his family in
Northampton.

"He was just a gentle, kind soul," says Caroline, who shared an apartment with
him and two cats.

christopher newton-Carter

Christopher, 52, was associate director of banker Sandley O'Neill. He was a
gentle soul who spent 15 years in New York but was originally from Scotland.

After studying computer science, Christopher moved to the US in the mid-80s and
married his wife Susan in 1992.

Brother Mark said that despite his success as a banker, Christopher never
changed.

"He was very successful but was completely unspoilt by that," said Mark. "He was
always kind, generous and caring."

GAVIN CUSHNY, 48

Tradition meant a lot to Gavin Cushney. The outgoing Scot even took the drastic
step of changing his surname from Eales-White to preserve an old family title.

Brought up in the tranquillity of the Isle of Lewis, he had attended the tiny St
Moulag's church there where his father had been preacher.

The computer consultant planned to marry there, hoping to tie the knot with
fiancee, Susan Brady, whom he'd met in America.

Gavin had first gone to the US as a student from St Andrews University.

STEPHEN MORRIS, 31

THE financial consultant from Wales was described by a colleague as "one of the
brightest, most honest and sincere persons I have ever worked with".

His family live near Denbigh. His dad Phil is a cab driver, his mum Judith a lab
technician.sarah redheffer, 35

Newly-wed Sarah loved children and was keen to start a family with husband,
Eric, 33.

A natural performer, she sang in the church choir at her home in Bathwick, near
Bath, and put on plays with her sister, Jane. And she was quite a bossy-boots.

Her dad David says: "She would always tell everyone where to stand, where to sit
and generally what to do."

She loved travelling, working in France and Chicago. She is one of 16 staff of
London-based publisher Risk Waters still missing in New York.

DEREK

SWORD, 29

An investment banker from Dundee, Derek became engaged to Maureen Sullivan only
days before the attack.

His last contact with her was from the 89th floor of the South Tower, when he
told her he was trying to escape the inferno.

The former Scotland tennis player was a member of the New York Athletic Club and
played there three times a week.

His energetic nature made him well-suited to New York life. "He quickly fell
into the routine," said Maureen. "He loved the pace of it all."

ANN-MARIE

McHUGH, 35

Friends in Tuam, Co Galway friends talk fondly of Ann-Marie's "madcap teenage
years" and wide circle of friends.

Her parents, Padraic and Margaret ran a pub in the town's high street and they
were the type of family who knew everybody.

But Ann-Marie loved New York too and while working as a broker there she met the
man she was due to marry last month.

Her brother, Brendan, said: "People liked Ann-Marie instantly. She had way of
beguiling them with her honesty, her forthrightness, her generosity of spirit."

martin coughlan, 53

Mad about skywatching and his hero Elvis, the carpenter from Tipperary would
keep guests amused late into the night belting out rock and roll hits on his
guitar.

Martin - who was working in the south tower when the jet crashed into it - had
lived in Queens, New York, for 14 years but never forgot his roots.

He was devoted to his wife Catherine and their four daughters, and friends
described him as the life and soul of the party. A cousin, Maurice Carr, 49,
says: "He loved life and made sure he lived every minute of it."

PATRICK

CURRIVAN, 53

Dubliner Patrick simply loved travelling. He was a self-confessed globe-trotter
who preferred to spend his time on the move.

A graduate of Trinity College in his home city, Patrick was killed aboard one of
the hijacked jets.

He'd stopped off in Boston to meet friends, and had intended to fly on to Los
Angeles for a conference.

Patrick was known for his amazing energy - friends say he managed to cram four
very packed lives into his one - his fearlessness and his straight-talking,
honest style.

JIM WALSH, 37

Jim was not only a wonderful father but also a fantastic uncle who was the only
one who could calm his young nephew.

When his sister Kathleen adopted a baby from Korea, Jim would go out of his way
to comfort the troubled little boy.

Jim, left, worked as a producer in the conference department of publishing
company, Risk Waters.

Another sister, Carol said: "He was fun and funny and at the same time taught us
all how to be a little more loving."

Jim, originally from Nottingham, is survived by his expectant wife, Kate and
young daughter Caroline.

Rick

rescorla, 62

Colonel Rescorla, from Hale, Cornwall, was a legendary warrior, poet and writer.

Rick, left, joined the British Army and in 1963 went to fight with the United
States forces in Vietnam, leading a platoon through the notorious valley of La
Drang.

He leaves a wife and two children in Morristown, New Jersey.

As head of security for Morgan Stanley in the South Tower, he barked out orders
on a megaphone in a smoke-choked stairwell and helped many of his bank's 3,700
staff escape.

He called his wife Susan to say: "You made my life."

MICHAEL and christine egan

MICHAEL, a young-at-heart 51, was known to his friends as Peter Pan.

A respectable insurance executive by day, when not at the office he loved
practical jokes, spraying whipped cream on bedsheets and taping down colleagues'
phone receivers for a giggle.

He came from Hull and never lost his Yorkshire accent, even when he was singing
favourite hits from Broadway shows. He was proud of his collection of maps of
Hull and took great pleasure in introducing friends to the study of British
beers.

Michael, vice-president of insurance company AON, is believed to have died
helping people escape from the south tower. He left a wife, Anne.

His sister Christine, 55 - pictured with him, right - was inseparable from him.
The Canada-based nurse was on holiday and visiting Michael's office on the
morning of September 11.

catherine

james, 37A gifted musician, Catherine was hoping to make a successful career as
a concert pianist.

Her talent earned her a place at The Royal College of Music in London and she
left her home in West Cross, Swansea to study there for four years.

But with characteristic realism she swapped careers when she realised she might
not make it as a professional, and moved to America in 1991.

Her parents, Howard, 78, and Val, 76, are still too upset to talk about the
tragedy, but a family friend, said: "She was a lovely girl."

ELISA

FERRAINA, 27

Elisa was a world citizen who loved to party and lived life to the full.

Born in Australia, she had settled in Lewisham, South London, before heading to
the United States in search of a challenge in May last year.

Her friend Joe Meares said that above all she was a fun-loving person and had
just started as a conference organiser.

Joe said: "Elisa was looking for some excitement. Her company offered her a new
job in New York, so she went for it."

howard

selwyn, 47

Howard was a vice-president at Eurobank, on the 84th floor of the South Tower.

Even after 20 years in the US, Howard, from Leeds, never lost his love of
football, or English food.

The father-of-two, who lived on Long Island with wife Ruth, had his parents send
over English jam and Colman's mustard.

He and a friend even opened a shop - Soccer Central - dedicated to the sport.
Ruth said it was "a dream fulfilled", adding, "as a family, we want to continue
it for him".

vincent

wells, 22

The youngest British victim, Vincent wrote in his school year book that his
ambitions were to win the Lottery - and become Prime Minister.

Many who knew the driven young man from Ilford, Essex, felt his ambitions were
not unrealistic.

He was a man with a gift for making friends - including the actress Tamzin
Outhwaite and his former head teacher Dr Paul Docherty said of him: "He was a
genuinely lovely young man." Vincent worked for Cantor Fitzgerald on the 105th
floor.

NEIL R WRIGHT, 30

ESSEX-born Neil was a broker for Cantor Fitzgerald and certainly knew how to
enjoy himself away from the office.

The divorced father-of-two was a regular at the Mountain View Chalet bar, where
it's said that within minutes everyone was rocked by "the kind of laughing that
makes your face hurt".

When he wasn't looking after sons Daniel and Jack he loved zooming round on a
bright yellow Aprilla motorbike.

He loved the US but hankered for one thing - Yorkshire puddings.

KIERAN GORMAN, 35

Known to friends as "the jolly giant" Kieran was known for having a heart as big
as his frame.

A labourer from Lavagh, Co Sligo, he was a Gaelic football fan and in his youth
represented the county. He kept up his interest in New York by playing every
weekend.

And he couldn't stay away from the home country for long.

Just the day before the attacks, Kieran, his pregnant wife Ann - who has since
given birth - and their two sons, had returned from a trip to see relatives in
Ireland.

richard

cudina, 46

Action man Richard loved sports, held a helicopter pilot's licence and thought
nothing of jetting half-way across the world to surprise friends.

Originally from Swanage in Devon, Richard settled in New Jersey with his wife
Georgia and was a bond broker with Cantor Fitzgerald at the WTC.

His younger brother Chris said of him: "He had no fear and we all lived
vicariously through Richie.

"Work was work but when the whistle blew, he picked up another life."

nigel

thompson, 33

Millionaire Nigel was a go-getting stockbroker, who loved good clothes and good
cigars.

Originally from Sheffield, his northern humour impressed his fiancee Rosanna so
much she accepted his proposal - on bended knee over Peking duck in a Chinese
restaurant. They married last October.

His identical twin, Neal, described him as a fitness buff and snappy dresser.

Friends were important to him and he'd meet up with close pals every Sunday
night to stroll along Brooklyn Bridge.

Robert eaton, 37

A BROKER at Cantor Fitzgerald, Sussex-born Robert lived on Long Island with his
wife Jacqui.

The former St Paul's chorister revelled in a mixture of British and American
traditions.

A keen footballer who studied at Brighton College, Robert always remained a big
fan of the Seagulls (Brighton).

He married Jacqui after a blind date in 1991 and the couple made a name for
themselves by throwing a huge fancy dress party each Halloween.

ronnie

gilligan, 43Despite living in America for almost 20 years, Ronnie was British
through and through. He never stopped talking to colleagues about his home city,
Liverpool.

The IT manager worked on the 103rd floor of the north tower for bond traders
Cantor Fitzgerald.

He and his wife Elizabeth, 40, had three children - Ashley, 17, Ainsley, 10, and
Dherran, eight.

Ashley says: "He was a fantastic father who loved his family and would do
anything for us."

timothy

stackpole, 42

There were two sides to "Timmy", the tough fire chief and gentle, loving father
of five children.

He didn't do anything by halves and was nicknamed "Jobs" because of the number
of fires he attended.

Originally from Tipperary, he amazed everyone by battling to overcome injuries
from a huge fire in 1998 while spending his spare time doing a degree in
education.

He was voted "Irishman of the Year" at the Great Irish Fair in Brooklyn earlier
this year.

ian gray, 55

Ian left Wick in Scotland for the US in 1968 and had worked his way up to become
vice-president of McBee Associates, a large American health- care firm.

His wife Ana Raley, a hospital chief executive in Washington, said of the
tragedy: "This is horrible. We have been the happiest

couple in the world." Father-of-one Ian had strong links to Scotland and made
regular trips home to see his mother, Kathleen.

eamon mceneaney, 46

Irish-born Eamon was a financial consultant who worked on the 104th floor of the
North Tower.

He was also a man with a secret.

His wife Bonnie only found out after his death that the devoted father-of-four
had been a hero in the 1993 bomb attack on the World Trade Center. "He

led 63 hysterical people to safety but had always played it down to me," said
Bonnie, from the home they shared in Connecticut.DAMIEN MEEHAN, 32

Damien celebrated a would-be golfer's milestone last summer when he finally
broke 100.

He was the youngest of six brothers from Co Donegal - the quiet, serious one.
Last year, the brothers pitched in and completely renovated the house he shared
in New Jersey with his wife Joanne and

their 18-month-old son. Another baby is on the way.

Damien, a financial adviser, worked on the 88th floor of the north tower.

gerald

fisher, 57

Gerald was a respected business consultant but never felt the need to dress for
success.

"He was a character," says his boss Joyce Doria. "He wanted people to know him
for his ideas. He had a very winning way." Raised in Los Angeles, the bearded
and burly British citizen was a jolly character with a deep laugh that turned
heads.

He was a trained counsellor to whom people turned to for advice.

DAVID RATHKEY, 47THE sales executive at IQ Financial Systems just couldn't get
enough football. He played an over-40 team and coached his twin sons.

Originally from Maidenhead, Kent, he and wife Julia settled in Mountain Lakes,
New Jersey, where 4,000 neighbours staged a charity event to raise pounds 80,000
for his children and those of another local victim of the attack.jonathan uman,
33Jonathan had a fun outlook on life and liked to hold an "open house" for
friends each weekend.

The father-of-two, whose wife Julie was also from Bristol, was an amateur actor
who listened to Shakespeare as he drove his Porsche from Connecticut to work at
Cantor Fitzgerald as a managing director.

He also played bass guitar and, despite being colourblind, dabbled in painting
as well.gavin mcmahon, 35Gavin was adventurous for an insurance executive.

He loved Formula One racing, followed Irish rockers Stiff Little Fingers, and
was a notorious air guitar player.

The Sunderland FC fan moved to New York five years ago from his hometown of
Chester-le-Street. "He was never, ever sad," recalled his girlfriend, Bridget
Fitzpatrick. "He squeezed everything he could out of a short life."michael
cunningham, 39Broker Michael was delighted with the arrival of his son Liam,
above, just 13 days before the terrorist attack.

He grew up in Ilford, Essex, and his American wife Teresa, 35, says he never
lost his East End accent. She didn't want to go out with him at first because he
was a work colleague but he won her over. "He had this fun, go-for-it attitude,"
she says. "He made me laugh. Plus he was very handsome.

"He used to say to me: 'I'm six-foot-two, eyes of blue, Micky C will come after
you.'"

After 11 years in the US, he preferred American football to soccer and rooted
for the Philadelphia Eagles. The couple lived in Princeton, New Jersey.melanie
de vere, 30Exuberant Melanie, from Hayling Island, Hants, always had a smile on
her face.

She planned to spend her life with her boyfriend Ian Roberts and had just
started work with publishers Risk Waters in the North Tower the day before the
aircraft hit.

Her mother Margaret Owen remembers: "Melanie grabbed every last moment. She
never wasted a single minute of her life."

michael lomax, 37Mike was destined for career success from boyhood. Born in
Manchester, he won a place to Stockport Grammar school and went on to study
maths at Oxford University.

With his head for figures it was a natural progression to become an actuary.

A love of travel and the ability to make friends easily meant he moved to
Canada, then Boston where he met his wife Erica, a concert pianist.robin larkey,
48Robin was always ready to stand up for the underdog. His friend Patrick
Edwards recalls being in a bar when a drunk was giving the female bartender a
hard time.

"Robin very effectively upbraided the man." The man left - a good thing as the
Cantor Fitzgerald trader from Surrey was a skilled boxer. Legend has it that he
once knocked out a future Olympic medal winner.

He leaves a wife and three young sons.BEN WALKER, 41BEN moved to New York from
Leighton Buzzard, Bucks, five years ago, when he landed a job as a broker with
Marsh McClennan.

He came from a big family and, in turn, was a devoted father to his three
children with US-born wife, Laura.

The couple even lived back in England for a time before resettling in the US.
His father David said: "Laura loved England so much, it was difficult for Ben to
induce her back to the US."simon

maddison, 40Simon lived in America for 10 years, but never lost his Essex roots.

Every Independence Day the company director hung a giant Union Jack flag in his
car and tried - but failed - to convert his American friends to Marmite.

He was also renowned for terrible DIY skills and being accident prone on the ski
slopes.

Simon leaves wife Maureen and children Caileigh, seven, Kyle, four, and one
-year-old Sydney.The secretary with Cantor Fitzgerald had a great zest for life.
Joanne,Richard Dawson, 32

Richard was a talented rugby player and liked to laugh. Originally from
Southampton, he worked for Thales Contact Solutions in the South Tower.

His girlfriend Lara Perkins says: "He had a great drive for everything he did in
life."

Kevin Dennis, 43

Kevin (right) and his American-born wife Debra desperately wanted children and
had twins Ryan and Elliot with IVF treatment in 1994.

He moved to America from Essex shortly after his 21st birthday and worked as a
stockbroker for bond firm Cantor Fitzgerald.

Joanne Cregan, 30

from Churchtown, Dublin, lived in New York. Her sister Grace, 27, also made her
home in the city.

SEAN CANAVAN, 39

carpenter Sean was always helping relatives, friends and neighbours with repairs
and renovations. Neighbours tied yellow ribbons and placed big bouquets and
white candles outside his home in Brooklyn.

Paul Gilbey, 39

Paul, from Southend, Essex, started going out with his wife Deena when he was
just 16 and she was 14. Paul went to New York to work with Eurobrokers and raise
their sons Max, seven, and Mason, three in New Jersey.

Stephen was a money dealer who moved to New York three years agoStephen Lawn, 29
from his home town of Canterbury, Kent. His parents John and Angela had been
planning to visit him.

Michelle Duberry, 37

ESSEX mother of two Michelle, moved to New York in January to take up a new job
as publishing executive at Risk Waters.

Simon Turner, 39

EX-ARMY officer Simon, a publishing executive, lived in Muswell Hill, North
London. His wife Elizabeth was seven months pregnant at the time of the attack.

Dinah Webster, 50, and Neil Cudmore, 38

THE engaged couple lived together in Dorset and planned to get married in
Britain after meeting in advertising sales at Risk Waters.

Martin Wortley, 29

KEEP-FIT fan Martin, from Suffolk, had been living in New Jersey

with his wife Karen, for two years and worked for Cantor Fitzgerald.

Andrew, 39, and Timothy Gilbert, 36

THE brothers from Ipswich, Suffolk, worked together at Cantor Fitzgerald. The
pair were very close and both were married, with children.

Ian Thompson, 43

Ian (right) loved America so much he said he wanted the song New York, New York
played at his funeral. The Hampshire-born stockbroker withPaul Bristow, 27

Publisher Paul lived in Brooklyn and worked in the conference department of Risk
Waters.

Karlie Rogers, 25

from Leicestershire, she graduated from Sussex University in 1997 with a BA in
German and was a sponsorship manager for Risk Waters.

Nicholas John, 33

NICHOLAS came from Swansea, South Wales, and was working with bankers JP Morgan
Chase. a huge zest for life worked for Eurobrokers and lived in New Jersey with
his British wife Lucy and daughters Ella, 13, and Rachel, 10.

Oliver Bennett, 29

Journalist Oliver was a writer on Risk Waters' in-house magazine Risk, working
in the South Tower.

WE apologise to families of British and Irish victims not mentioned in this
tribute. We have relied on official sources, who have been requested by a number
of families not to release details to the Press. If you are a relative of a
victim not listed here, please contact Claire Donnelly on 0207 293 3952 or email
claire.donnelly@mgn.co.uk

LOAD-DATE: December 31, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                            Copyright 2001 MGN Ltd.

                              216 of 251 DOCUMENTS

                                  All Regions

                               December 21, 2001

Parties Should Review Contracts In Wake Of September 11th Terrorist Attacks -
Pillsbury Winthrop LLP

SOURCE: Pillsbury Winthrop LLP, United States

SECTION: LEGISLATION & REGULATION; CONSULTANCY

LENGTH: 1152 words


Article by Matthew Africa, Stuart E. Casillas, John E. Davis, Bruce Ericson,
David M. Lindley and Jacob R. Sorensen

In addition to the human tragedy caused by the terrorist attacks on the World
Trade Center and the Pentagon, the events of September 11, 2001 have harmed
businesses nationwide. Already, many industries have petitioned the federal
government for help, citing the impact of the attacks on operations and profits.
While governmental aid or insurance recoveries may suffice for some, affected
businesses-whether they are trying to enforce an obligation or to avoid
one-should also look closely at the various contractual "excuse" doctrines to
which parties resort in times of calamity. This Bulletin is intended to provide
a basic introduction to some of the legal issues presented by the severe losses
and disruptions that have occurred since September 11.

Unanticipated and Extreme Circumstances Sometimes Excuse Contractual Duties

When entering a contract, a party is expected to consider the possible risks and
provide for them in the agreement; any foreseeable subsequent frustration or
interference that makes performance more difficult or even impossible should not
relieve the promisor of its duties. The doctrines of
impossibility/impracticability, frustration and force majeure, however,
sometimes allow parties to postpone or avoid performance. Performance may be
excused when it is made impracticable or when the purpose of the contract is
frustrated by an unanticipated event, or when the agreement itself excuses
performance under certain extraordinary conditions.

In analyzing breaches under these doctrines, courts look primarily at how the
parties allocated risk and may reflexively conclude that the party last owing
performance assumed responsibility for performing, no matter the price. Where
the risks were unforeseen and unforeseeable by the parties, however, this may be
the wrong conclusion.

Impossibility and Impracticability

Performance may be excused if an event that the parties assumed would not occur
renders performance under a contract impossible or impracticable. To qualify,
the event precluding performance must have occurred through no fault of the
party seeking excuse, and this party must not have assumed the risk of the
impairment. See Restatement (Second) of Contracts Para.  261 (1981)
(Restatement). Traditionally, courts acknowledged a defense only where
performance was objectively impossible. Modern cases also recognize a defense of
impracticability due to excessive and unreasonable difficulty or expense.

Even if performance is excused, the obligation is suspended only while the
excuse exists-unless the suspension is indefinite or the performance, if
attempted after the intervening impracticability ends, "would subject (the
promisor) to a substantially greater burden" than originally contemplated. In
such circumstances, the temporary excuse may lead to complete discharge of the
duty. See id. cmt. b. Although some contracts specify a deadline for
performance, the existence of such a deadline may not be conclusive as to
whether delayed performance is permissible. Contractual deadlines often reflect
convenience rather than necessity. Therefore, courts may attempt to discern the
parties' true intention rather than simply applying deadlines in a mechanical
fashion.

Frustration of Purpose

Frustration of purpose arises where circumstances change in such a fundamental
and unexpected way that they interfere with the basic purpose of a contract. To
claim frustration of purpose as an excuse for non-performance, a party must
establish that: (1) the purpose that is frustrated was fundamental to the
agreement, so that the agreement would make little sense without it, (2) the
frustration was so severe that it is not fairly to be regarded as within the
risks that the party assumed under the contract, and (3) the non-occurrence of
the frustrating event was a basic assumption of the agreement. See Restatement
Para.  265. Again, the party seeking excuse must be without fault, and must not
have assumed the risk of the frustrating occurrence.

Force Majeure And "Act of War" Clauses And Other "Excuse" Provisions

Many contracts contain a "force majeure" clause to deal with unexpected events
that the parties agree will excuse performance. Some states also have statutes
that govern the effect of such events in the absence of an explicit clause. See,
e.g., Cal. Civ. Code Para.  1511(2). A "force majeure" situation is commonly
understood as a sudden, severe event or effect that can be neither anticipated
nor controlled. Typical examples include both acts of nature (e.g., floods and
hurricanes) and acts of man (e.g., riots and wars). Force majeure generally does
not include mistaken assumptions about future events, bad economic conditions or
unfavorable regulation.

Courts, especially in New York, tend to read such clauses narrowly and may
confine their application to the events listed in the agreement. For this
reason, "act of war" exclusions in "all risk" property insurance policies should
have no application to losses from the September 11 disasters. Terrorist attacks
performed by individuals-even when financed by a sovereign power-are not
considered the equivalent of the wartime actions of such a power. See Pan
American World Airways, Inc. v. Aetna Casualty & Surety Co., 505 F.2d 989 (2d
Cir. 1974).

Closely related to force majeure clauses are provisions dealing with Material
Adverse Effect (MAE) and Material Adverse Change (MAC), which are commonly
inserted in merger and purchase agreements. Parties to contracts are well
advised to review closely any force majeure or MAE/MAC clauses, as they may
provide a more expansive excuse for unforeseen events than common law or
statute.

Parties Can Mitigate Risk Of Loss From Disaster-Related Non-Performance

Although the tragedy of September 11 may be unprecedented in our nation's
history, the methods our legal system will apply to grappling with its effects
are well established. To avoid even further damage from the attacks, parties
should act promptly to protect their contractual rights. Moreover, parties
should give careful consideration in drafting agreements to allocating for the
risk of delayed or missed performance caused by unforeseen occurrences, to avoid
confusion over who must ultimately bear the resulting loss.

The content of this article is intended to provide a general guide to the
subject matter. Specialist advice should be sought about your specific
circumstances.

Mr Bruce Ericson

Pillsbury Winthrop LLP

50 Fremont Street

P.O. Box 7880

San Francisco

CA 94105-2228

UNITED STATES

Tel: 4159831000

Fax: 4159831200

E-mail: info@pillsburywinthrop.com

URL: www.pillsburywinthrop.com

(c) Mondaq Ltd, 2001 - Tel. +44 (0)20 7820 7733 - http:/www.mondaq.com

LOAD-DATE: January 30, 2002

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Business Information Database

                           Copyright 2001 Mondaq Ltd.

                              217 of 251 DOCUMENTS

                          THE DAILY TELEGRAPH(LONDON)

                           December 21, 2001, Friday

Terrorist attacks disrupt Carnival

BYLINE: By Alistair Osborne City Correspondent

SECTION: Pg. 28

LENGTH: 194 words

CARNIVAL Corporation, the cruise operator that has launched a pounds 3.2 billion
offer for P&O Princess Cruises, yesterday said fourth-quarter income had fallen
sharply, hit by the US terrorist attacks of September 11.

Net income for the three months to November 30 fell 40pc to $116.3m after a 7pc
reduction in yields, or net revenue per available berth. Full-year net income
was down from $966m to $927m on revenues 20pc higher at $4.54 billion.

The figures were better than the market expected. Micky Arison, chairman and
chief executive, said the fourth-quarter profits plus "occupancies of 98pc" were
"a testament to the strength of our vacation products".

He added that booking levels had started to recover, up 45pc year-on-year in the
past five weeks. Prices are lower, though, and Carnival expects yields to fall
10pc-15pc.

The shares rose 0.5pc to $27.50, valuing its offer for P&O at 458p a share. The
results had a bigger impact on rival Royal Caribbean's shares, which jumped 6pc
to $14.55 improving the value of its proposed nil-premium merger with P&O, whose
shares closed up 8 1/2 at 384 1/2 p.
[PS]City: [ES]

LOAD-DATE: December 21, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 2001 Telegraph Group Limited

                              218 of 251 DOCUMENTS

                              DAILY MAIL (London)

                               December 21, 2001

Teen gang target dies after years of terror attacks

BYLINE: Nilufer Atik

SECTION: Pg. 29

LENGTH: 338 words


A MAN who had been tormented for years by gangs of teenagers died from a
suspected heart attack minutes after he foiled a break-in at his home.

Trevor Whitehead, 61, was found dead in his living room by police early
yesterday after scaring off the intruder.

The retired weaver, who lived alone, was woken shortly after midnight by the
sound of someone trying to break into his home in Accrington, Lancashire.

Mr Whitehead went downstairs to investigate and disturbed the intruder who ran
off. He then called the police.

Officers later arrested a 22-year-old man nearby and took him to a police
station for questioning.

But when they returned to Mr Whitehead's home they found that he had died from a
suspected heart attack.

Next-door neighbour Christine Wieczorek, 57, said yesterday: 'It is such a
shock. I had known Trevor for more than 50 years, since we were children.

'He was a very quiet man and kept himself to himself. He wouldn't hurt a fly.

'He was always getting bothered by gangs of teenagers. They have tried to get
into his house at least ten times in the past couple of years and he was quite
frightened by them.

'I don't know why they always tried to get into Trevor's place. It's just flat
above a shop.

'This is such a terrible thing to happen, especially just before Christmas.' Mr
Whitehead, whose son Trevor, 38, and ex-wife Alice, 57, also live the area, had
suffered a heart attack six weeks before the attempted break-in.

Mrs Whitehead said yesterday: 'He was always frightened because gangs used to
hang around outside his house and throw bricks at the windows and try to get in.

'He never used to sleep at night because he was so scared and used to leave his
lights on to let people know he was in.

'He had recovered from his heart attack but the shock of this must have brought
on another one.' Police are awaiting the results of post-mortem examination
before deciding what action to take.

The man arrested was still being questioned last night.


LOAD-DATE: December 22, 2001

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                   Copyright 2001 Associated Newspapers Ltd.

                              219 of 251 DOCUMENTS

                            The Independent (London)

                           December 21, 2001, Friday

CAMPAIGN AGAINST TERRORISM: GLOBAL POLL FINDS MOST THINK AMERICA BROUGHT TERROR
ATTACKS ON ITSELF

BYLINE: Rupert Cornwell In Washington George Bush: Sees US as the defender of
freedom

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 491 words


DID AMERICA somehow ask for the terrorist outrages in New York and Washington?

Not surprisingly, nearly all leading Americans think not. But most people of
influence in the rest of the world, and nearly 80 per cent in the Middle East
and Islamic world, believe that, to a certain extent, the US was asking for it.

This is the most striking finding of a poll exploring global attitudes to the
United States and the events of 11 September, which brings out an important
subtext of the tragedy and its aftermath - the difference between how Americans
think they are seen, and the way the rest of the world sees them.

The survey by the Pew Research Centre, the Princeton Survey Research Associates
and the International Herald Tribune newspaper, was conducted among 275 people
of influence in politics, media, business and culture.

Forty of them were in the United States, while 235 were in 23 other countries,
and they were asked to reflect the views of their compatriots.

In America, only 18 per cent considered that "US policies and actions in the
world" were seen as a main cause of the attacks. Elsewhere, that rose to 58 per
cent, and to 81 per cent in the Middle East and the area around Afghanistan.

While 70 per cent of the Americans questioned believed that the United States
was seen to be considering its partners' interests, an almost identical
proportion elsewhere said that Washington was seen as acting unilaterally.

All the Americans felt that no one would regard the US as having overreacted to
the terrorist attacks. By contrast, 40 per cent of those interviewed elsewhere
reckoned the war was seen as an overreaction, a figure rising to 60 per cent in
the Islamic world. Only minorities, even in Europe, thought their people would
support the anti-terrorist offensive being extended to countries such as Iraq
and Somalia.

But the most interesting themes that emerged were a barely disguised resentment
at America's massive power in the world, and a gulf between Americans' views of
how the world sees them and the world's actual feelings.

From its closest allies, in Europe, to the Middle East, Russia and Asia, a
uniform 70 per cent said people considered it good that after 11 September
Americans had realised what it was to be vulnerable.

Most striking, though, is the gulf in perceptions. In countless speeches,
including by President Bush, American spokesmen have portrayed the war as a
battle between good and evil, with the terrorists bent on destroying America's
way of life. Its position as a beacon of freedom and democracy, Americans
believe, is the reason the rest of the world most admires their country.

But this is not so. The biggest appeal of America lies in its technological
prowess, large majorities of those interviewed in the rest of the world said. A
majority of Americans said people believed the US was admired because "it does a
lot of good around the world".

LOAD-DATE: December 21, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 2001 Independent Print Ltd

                              220 of 251 DOCUMENTS

                            The Independent (London)

                           December 21, 2001, Friday

CAMPAIGN AGAINST TERRORISM: OFFICIAL TOLL FROM TERROR ATTACKS FALLS BELOW 3,000

BYLINE: David Usborne In New York Chris Sleigh, right, walking away from the
twin towers disaster with other survivors. Nobody on the floors above him
survived. Ground zero yesterday, right AP; Chris Sleigh: 'I think it was God's
providence'

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 776 words


THE OFFICIAL death toll from the World Trade Centre terror attack, including
victims on the ground and passengers in the two aircraft that crashed, is now
below 3,000, New York officials said yesterday.

The city is reporting that 2,992 people died during the attack on the twin
towers. While still a devastating number, it is far below what was once feared.
The city's estimate of the tally peaked at about 6,700 in mid-September, but it
has been sliding ever since.

And 100 days after the attack, George Pataki, the Governor of New York, declared
that the fires that had been burning without let-up beneath ground level at the
site of the towers, fuelled by everything from office furniture to mountains of
papers and documents, had finally been extinguished.

A detailed analysis of what happened after the planes struck the towers,
published by USA Today, reveals that the toll might have been much higher but
for several factors. Most strikingly, about 99 per cent of those in offices
beneath where the planes came in were safely evacuated. The fate of those
working on the higher floors was sealed almost instantly.

The paper noted that everyone on or above the 92nd floor of the north tower, the
first to be hit at 8.46am, perished. Everyone on the 91st floor survived. Most
of those who died were in the north tower, including 20 on the 83rd floor. Mike
Regan, the Deputy Fire Commissioner, said: "This report confirms what we have
been saying all along, that this was the greatest rescue operation in history.
Our guys, these heroes, rushed in and got everybody out." About one in seven of
the victims victims - thought to be 479 in all - were firemen or police or
security officers.

By contrast, some anger has been expressed over the numbers of building workers
who fled the towers after the first impact. Most notably, about 83 lift
mechanics, employed by Ace Elevator, ran from the complex. The twin towers had
no fewer than 99 lifts. The lifts still provided most people with the quickest
means of escape. In the south tower, four people who worked above the point of
impact, between floors 78 and 84, managed to get out by fighting their way down
one staircase that was filled with smoke but otherwise unobstructed. Another
group found the same stairwell but headed up, hoping for a helicopter from the
roof. The doors to the roof were locked, and smoke ruled out a helicopter
approach.

The starkness of the dividing line between floors - in fact between near-
certain death and the chance to escape - has left some survivors aware of their
extraordinary luck. They include George Sleigh, a British-born architect who was
buried in rubble when the first plane hit the north tower. He was on the 91st
floor.

"Sometimes I think it was God's providence that spared me," Mr Sleigh told USA
Today. "Other times I wonder why me and not others. I realise that I am a very
fortunate man." For others, it mattered where, exactly, they were standing. Judy
Wein, senior vice-president of AON Corp, was next to her boss in the lift lobby
of the 78th floor of the south tower when the second plane hit.A wing sliced
through the area. She was stunned and thrown down, but was able to scramble to
her feet and escape down the stairs. Her boss died at once.

Timing helped in different ways. The towers, which could accommodate between
40,000 and 50,000 workers, were fairly empty that morning. Between 5,000 and
7,000 were in each of the towers when the first aircraft hit. Many people simply
hadn't reached their offices by 8.46am. Some were late because they had voted in
that day's mayoral primary election. Another mitigating factor was that the
observation deck had not yet opened and few tourists were in the complex. And in
the 16 minutes between the two planes crashing, about two-thirds of the
occupants of the south tower were taken out to safety.

Praise is also mounting for the attention that had been paid to evacuation
arrangements since the 1993 terror attack on the twin towers, when a bomb
exploded in a parking garage. The management had improved the visibility of exit
routes and been strict about organising periodic emergency drills. It also
helped that the towers had three stairwells each that were wider than city
regulations demanded.

United Airlines, which owned one of the planes that hit the twin towers, was
sued yesterday by a woman whose husband died on the aircraft. Ellen Mariani
alleged that the airline should have stopped the hijackers from boarding the
aircraft. She and her husband took separate flights bound for California on
September 11 to attend the wedding of her daughter.

LOAD-DATE: December 21, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 2001 Independent Print Ltd

                              221 of 251 DOCUMENTS

                            The Independent (London)

                           December 21, 2001, Friday

CAMPAIGN AGAINST TERRORISM: NO LINK BETWEEN IRAQ AND TERROR ATTACKS, SAYS STRAW

BYLINE: Donald Macintyre And Andrew Grice Jack Straw expresses astonishment at
progress in Afghanistan but concedes winning the peace might be 'more complex'
David Rose

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 987 words


NOBODY WOULD accuse Jack Straw of jingoism, much less of showing any sign of
gloating. But in a burst of patriotic pride, he cannot resist a dig at how the
Cassandras of the media's commentating classes have been confounded by the
interim administration taking over in Kabul tomorrow.

In an interview with The Independent, the Foreign Secretary said: "There were
quite a number of people who suggested we would be bogged down in Afghanistan
like Vietnam." Speaking 100 days after the terrorist attacks in the United
States, Mr Straw said the progress made by the coalition had been "astonishing".

Osama bin Laden is still on the run, but Mr Straw predicted "sooner or later"
time would run out for him. "None of us thought 100 days on we would
realistically be in a position where the al-Qa'ida organisation has almost been
broken up, the Taliban routed and, as a result of both, the people of
Afghanistan liberated.

"The overwhelming majority of people in Islamic countries are delighted at what
has happened. President Musharraf (of Pakistan) is more secure than anyone
anticipated and we now have in prospect a route to a peaceful future for the
people of Afghanistan."

Success, however, has also brought problems. Putting together the British- led
peacekeeping force for Afghanistan has become a rather messy business. Asked if
peace was harder than war, Mr Straw conceded: "The variables in sorting out the
peace are in many ways more complex." But he insisted: "All this has been
organised in what is almost record time. It would normally take weeks and
months. We are doing this in days. Trying to get all the ducks in a row is an
enormously complex task."

The Foreign Secretary disclosed that Italian, Spanish, Canadian and Jordanian
troops would join their British counterparts in the initial deployment. He
admitted the involvement of Germany and France would take longer to secure
because they needed to resolve internal issues, which include Germany's
reluctance to see the force under the overall command of America.

Everybody hopes the force's mere presence will have a stabilising effect. But
the decision to seek a United Nations mandate under Chapter VII rather than the
less robust Chapter VI reflects a determination to prevent a repeat of the
grisly spectacle of Dutch UN soldiers standing by while Serbs massacred Bosnian
Muslims in Srebrenica.

"It is a huge compliment to British forces that we emerged as the one country
that could be the lead nation in these circumstances. It is also a mark of the
development of British foreign policy that we are very comfortable with that
position," Mr Straw said. Historians would judge that Tony Blair, from his
instinctive reaction after the second plane went into the World Trade Centre,
had played a critical part in this benign interim outcome. "What we have seen is
British foreign policy really making a difference. And now, particularly within
Europe, providing natural leadership."

But had Mr Blair's coalition building really influenced - even moderated -
America's strategy? Mr Straw, too much of a diplomat to go down that road, would
say only: "President Bush has emerged from this as a man of great qualities and
a statesman. He has made his own decisions. I think he would say he has been
assisted in that by the environment we have helped to create."

Mr Straw is more reticent about the second phase of the war, insisting he will
not get involved in "speculation". But aren't some in the Washington
administration openly calling for a war to topple Saddam Hussein in Iraq? "An
open foreign policy debate takes place in the US, that is a good thing ... What
matters is what decisions are made. The decisions which the Bush administration
have made have been careful and thought through up to now. I have no reason to
think that won't continue."

He went on: "I have seen no evidence to support any link (between Iraq and the
11 September attacks). On the general issue of military action, it is only ever
contemplated on the basis of very good evidence pointing to that necessity and
after a very careful conclusion that military action is the only possible
option. On that basis, the only theatre in which we are currently involved in
military action is Afghanistan."

On the Middle East, the Foreign Secretary made strikingly clear that his
patience with Yasser Arafat was running out. Now was the time for the
Palestinian leader to crack down on terrorists and declare an end to the
intifada.

Has Britain's policy tilted in favour of Israel because of the wave of suicide
bombings? No, Mr Straw said, the strategy had not changed, but the circumstances
had. He made a telling parallel with Northern Ireland. "If there was an Omagh
(bombing) happening every weekend, then this would place any government under
the most astounding pressure," he said. "Israel has the same population as
Scotland. The pressures on any government would be unbelievable."

On Europe, Mr Straw stuck to the government line on the single currency, saying
a referendum would be held only when its five economic tests were passed, and
praised the "hard-headed" approach of the Chancellor, Gordon Brown. Mr Straw,
long seen as a Eurosceptic, describes himself these days as a "practical
European" and there are clues that he is warming to the euro. After the 1975
referendum on whether Britain should remain in the EU, his two mentors took
different routes. Peter Shore remained a diehard Eurosceptic while Barbara
Castle, in contrast, joined the European Parliament. "I was more influenced on
this by Barbara's approach," he said.

"The euro will become a reality on 1 January. We can then move on to a more
serious debate. We will see proud nation states sharing their sovereignty in a
single currency. We will be able to see whether the single currency weakens
their sense of themselves ... I don't think it will."

LOAD-DATE: December 21, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 2001 Independent Print Ltd

                              222 of 251 DOCUMENTS

                UK Newsquest Regional Press - This is Hampshire

                               December 21, 2001

US terror: Leaders condemn attack.

BYLINE: Echo reporter (author email newsdesk@soton-echo.co.uk)

SECTION: News

LENGTH: 357 words

DATELINE: WINCHESTER



The terrorist attacks in America have brought widespread condemnation from
political leaders across the county.

Home Office minister and Southampton Itchen MP John Denham said: "It is hard to
put feelings into words at this time. Part of our reaction to this tragedy has
to be concerned with assisting in finding the terrorists responsible."

Romsey's LibDem MP, Sandra Gidley, called for a considered response to the
attacks."We cannot contemplate the horror of it all but some of the language
coming out has been quite jingoistic, describing it as Pearl Harbour 2. I hope
the US consults its allies before it does anything."

New Forest East MP Julian Lewis said: "This is an act of treachery. I believe it
will be regarded as an act of war against our American allies."

Leader of Hampshire County Council, Ken Thornber, said: "These events are beyond
comprehension.The nations of the world must unite and stamp out terrorism if
there is to be any security left in this world."

June Bridle, leader of Southampton City Council added: "These appalling and
murderous acts of terrorism defy description. They were cold, calculated and
completely devoid of humanity."

A book of condolence has been opened in Southampton Civic Centre's foyer by the
city council and those who want to sign it can do so between the hours of 8.30am
and 6.30pm.

While the whole world reels from the shock of the atrocities angry attention is
being turned in the direction of the Moslem states of Afghanistan and
Palestine.But Hampshire Moslems are appealing for calm.

Abdul Kayam who runs the Gourmet Rajah in Harestock and is a member of
Winchester's Moslem community said America is being too quick to apportion
blame. He explained that for a Moslem all life is created by God and therefore
has to be respected. "On a recent pilgrimage I was not even allowed to step on
an ant as it would have made the pilgrimage null and void and that is something
I still practice even now," he said.He and his family have been praying for the
victims and he stressed that the most important thing at the moment is to help
them and their families.


LOAD-DATE: December 21, 2001

LANGUAGE: English

                  Copyright 2001 NewsQuest Media Group Limited

                              223 of 251 DOCUMENTS

                            Derby Evening Telegraph

                               December 22, 2001

Terror attacks may lead to tax increase

BYLINE: by Krista Beighton, kbeighton@derbytelegraph.co.uk

SECTION: GENERAL, Pg.14

LENGTH: 602 words


COUNCIL taxes could rise across Derbyshire as local authorities face an increase
in their insurance premiums in the aftermath of the September 11 terrorist
attacks.

The U.S. World Trade Centre atrocity led to a worldwide increase in insurance
costs, which has even affected the insurers local councils use - and it could
fall to council tax payers to foot the bill.

The increase has come about after the world's leading re-insurers - which insure
the insurers - announced that they were facing severe losses following the
terrorist attacks.

Amber Valley Borough Council was facing a 91 per cent rise in its annual
premium, with insurer St Paul's planning to increase it from GBP 290,000 to GBP
555,000.

Since learning of the increase, the council has decided to change its cover. Its
property and motoring insurance will now be covered by Zurich Municipal and Risk
Management Partners will cover its liability and risk management-related claims.

Even so, the new cover, which will come into force on December 31, will still
cost about GBP 455,000.

In a report to the council, executive director of financial services David Fox
said: "The tragic events of September 11 have clearly affected the world
insurance market and have played a part in increasing costs of insurance cover
worldwide.

"In addition, the council's position is further complicated as St Paul's has
incurred significant losses as a result of major claims arising from other
customers."

Derby City Council, Erewash Borough Council, Derbyshire Dales District Council
and South Derbyshire District Council have also been warned of rises by their
insurers.

Zurich Municipal has informed the city council it anticipates a rise in its
premiums, but details will not be revealed until January.

The council's head of financial services, John Cornall, says the authority has
been warned it may face an increase of up to 50 per cent of its current bill of
about GBP 1m.

The county council is expecting a 25 per cent rise in its annual insurance
cover, which also currently stands at about GBP 1m.

Mr Cornall said: "There are a lot of problems facing the insurance industry
nowadays and what happened on September 11 has compounded those problems.

"The changes are likely to have an impact on council taxes, but it is difficult
to say how dramatic any increase will be."

A spokesman for the county council said: "The situation will be reviewed in
April and, until then, it is difficult to say how it will affect council taxes."

Bill Walker, spokesman for Zurich Municipal, said: "September 11 is not the only
factor affecting the market. In 1999, school arson cost the country's insurance
firms GBP 42m, but last year that figure rose to GBP 65m. We expect that to rise
to GBP 87m next year."

ALL council-owned property is covered by insurance in case of weather damage,
flooding or fire.

This includes leisure centres, libraries and houses. Insurance for Derby City
Council and Derbyshire County Council also covers schools for damage.

Motor insurance covers all of a council's commercial vehicles. This includes
refuse collection vans, company cars and repair vehicles.

Liability cover encapsulates all injuries sustained by council workers.

Third-party insurance will provide cover if anyone else is injured in a
council-owned building. It also provides cover if the council damages other
property - for example if construction workers cut through an electricity cable.

A council also has professional indemnity and negligence cover, so if a council
worker wrongly advises someone, they will be covered if action is taken.

LOAD-DATE: December 27, 2001

LANGUAGE: English

                     Copyright 2001 Derby Evening Telegraph

                              224 of 251 DOCUMENTS

                             The Guardian (London)

                               December 22, 2001

War in Afghanistan: Mopping up: US attack on convoy 'kills terror chiefs': New
troops and bombs heading for Tora Bora

BYLINE: Michael Ellison in New York and agencies

SECTION: Guardian Foreign Pages, Pg. 15

LENGTH: 552 words


US officials claimed yesterday that a number of Taliban or al-Qaida leaders were
killed when American warplanes attacked a convoy in Afghanistan.

"The vehicles were destroyed, the people were killed and the compound from which
they left was destroyed," said marine corps General Peter Pace, vice-chairman of
the US joint chiefs of staff. "The intelligence we gathered at the time
indicated to us that this was in fact leadership and we struck the leadership."

But the Afghan Islamic Press claimed those killed in the convoy, which was
attacked near the town of Khost, south-west of the Tora Bora region in eastern
Afghanistan, were tribal leaders en route to today's inauguration of the interim
administration in Kabul. It said at least 65 people had been killed.

The attack, by military AC-130 gunships and navy fighters, marked a resumption
of bombing after a three-day lull. Up to 12 vehicles in the convoy were wrecked.

The US also signalled its intention yesterday to step up its attempt to flush
al-Qaida and Taliban fighters out of the Tora Bora caves by bringing into play a
ferocious new bomb and sending in more troops.

The thermobaric bomb, also known as a vacuum bomb, creates a delayed
high-pressure explosion that sucks air out of caves and tunnels; many expected
it to be pressed into service earlier. Those who are not killed outright can
suffer collapsed lungs, ruptured eardrums, and haemorrhages of the liver and
spleen.

"This is something that we clearly have a need for in Afghanistan and they're on
their way over there," said the undersecretary of defence, Edward Aldridge, even
as America was claiming new success against its opponents. Nearly two weeks ago
it looked as though the vacuum bomb would not be used to strike the leadership,
or anyone else. Then, Rear-Admiral John Stufflebeem, deputy director of
operations for the joint chiefs of staff, was not sure whether the fuel-air
bombs even existed.

"It's been a long time since I've looked at our inventories," he told a Pentagon
briefing. "I'm not sure that we have any fuel-air explosives in the inventory
from after Desert Storm."

Iraqi minefields and soldiers in trenches were targeted by 254 of the bombs in
1991, the last time they were employed.

The army's supply of the bombs, CBU-55s and CBU-72s, had been sent for
decommissioning five years ago, although something under 500 had not been
destroyed because of lack of funds for the job. Now thermobaric bombs may be
used before US marines start scouring the caves of Tora Bora.

The US defence secretary, Donald Rumsfeld, said last night that more American
troops will be sent to the Tora Bora caves to join troops already searching
them.

Mr Rumsfeld declined to say how many additional soldiers might be sent to the
area, which was largely abandoned by al-Qaida fighters early this week.

"Whatever is needed will be sent," he told a Pentagon press conference. "And it
won't be just US, it will be coalition forces."

Senior defence officials said the Afghanistan war commander, General Tommy
Franks, proposed sending several hundred Marines and possibly a smaller number
of regular army troops to the Tora Bora area.

Leader comment, page 17

Special report on the war in Afghanistan at guardian.co.uk/afghanistan


LOAD-DATE: December 22, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 2001 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              225 of 251 DOCUMENTS

                          THE JOURNAL (Newcastle, UK)

                     December 22, 2001, Saturday Edition 1

Expert warns of Christmas terror attack

BYLINE: By The Journal

SECTION: NEWS, Pg. 32

LENGTH: 151 words


   .




Al Qaida could be planning a "Christmas spectacular" to hit back at the West
after the Taliban's humiliating defeat, defence experts have warned.

The festive period would be prime time for terrorists to strike, because of its
symbolic importance to the UK and its allies, according to former British Army
officer and security expert Mike Yardley. He said: "After being seen to come off
badly in Afghanistan, the network's chiefs will be keen to prove its potency
abroad.

"Defences are liable to be down over the Christmas holiday, making it an ideal
choice for terrorists."

He said an attack might include "exotic" weapons, including the so-called dirty
bomb.

This uses conventional means to spread large doses of radiation.

Britain would be a likely target because of its support in the war against the
Taliban, Mr Yardley said.

LOAD-DATE: December 26, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                Copyright 2001 Newcastle Chronicle & Journal Ltd

                              226 of 251 DOCUMENTS



                                   The Mirror

                          December 22, 2001, Saturday

WAR ON TERROR: ATTACK TRAGEDY: HAMAS STOPS SUICIDE BOMBS

BYLINE: Mark Ellis Foreign Editor

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 219 words

HIGHLIGHT: LEADER: Yassin


THE militant group Hamas called a halt to its campaign of suicide bombings
yesterday.

Thirty-six people have died in Israel this month alone in attacks by Islamic
fanatics.

The suspension of such strikes inside Israel - and of mortar attacks - was being
seen last night as a victory for Palestinian leader Yasser Arafat. He has been
under intense pressure from the US and Europe to stop the bombings. The White
House greeted the news with the message that all terror activities "must stop
immediately".

Hamas - led by Sheik Ahmed Yassin, now under house arrest - had said: "We
declare the suspension of martyrdom attacks and a suspension of mortar fire
until further notice."

December has seen three horrific incidents. A suicide bomber ran into the path
of an Israeli bus in the West Bank, another bus was blasted in Haifa and a
shopping centre in Jerusalem was hit.

Israel yesterday interpreted the Hamas move as a ploy to prevent an Arafat
clampdown on terrorists. It was also seen as stopping clashes between
Palestinian police and Hamas from becoming a civil war.

Mr Arafat plans to pay his annual Christmas Eve visit to Bethlehem but it is
unclear if Israel will let him into the city.

He has been virtually confined to his Ramallah HQ since Israel sent in tanks
weeks ago.

LOAD-DATE: December 22, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                            Copyright 2001 MGN Ltd.

                              227 of 251 DOCUMENTS



                                   The Mirror

                          December 22, 2001, Saturday

WAR ON TERROR: ATTACK TRAGEDY: MARINES ENTER KABUL FOR OPENING OF GOVERNMENT

BYLINE: Tom Newton Dunn In Kabul, Afghanistan

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 206 words

HIGHLIGHT: GOING IN: Royal Marines drive into Kabul yesterday to protect leaders
Picture: JULIAN ANDREWS


THE first Royal Marines arrived in Kabul last night greeted by cheering and
waving Afghans.

A small convoy of Land Rovers and air assault trucks took 30 commandos into the
capital to help with security for today's official opening of the new interim
government.

Despite attempts to keep their arrival low profile, people waved and clapped the
men from Bravo Company, 40 Commando, as they drove through the streets. Orange
seller Bashir Khan, 42, said: "We want peace, the whole country does. We are
very happy now the international troops have come because they will bring us
that."

The troops were driven to a temporary camp in the grounds of the British
Embassy. They will be joined by another 30 tomorrow.

Defence officials insisted the marines were not part of the International
Stabilisation and Assistance Force (ISAF) which is still the subject of a
diplomatic row over its eventual size.

Some former warlords want to restrict the peacekeeping force to 1,000 troops
while British generals want between 3,000 and 5,000.

Meanwhile in Mazar-e Sharif police said a grenade which exploded in a market
injuring 159 people was not an act of terrorism but an accident. The device had
fallen from a soldier.

LOAD-DATE: December 22, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                            Copyright 2001 MGN Ltd.

                              228 of 251 DOCUMENTS



                                   The Mirror

                          December 22, 2001, Saturday

WAR ON TERROR: ATTACK TRAGEDY: SACRIFICE;
 15 INNOCENT TRIBAL ELDERS DIE AS AMERICA BOMBS TALIBAN AND AL-QAEDA LEADERS
HIDING IN CONVOY

BYLINE: Tom Newton Dunn In Kabul And Lorraine Fisher In New York

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 10,11

LENGTH: 358 words


FIFTEEN innocent tribal elders were killed yesterday when US planes bombed a
convoy where al-Qaeda and Taliban leaders were believed to be hiding.

The unarmed men were on their way to the swearing in of Afghanistan's new
interim government when AC-130 gunships and Navy jet fighters launched a
devastating attack, killing 65 people.

Intelligence sources had told the US that enemy leaders fleeing Tora Bora, where
Osama bin Laden is believed to have been hiding, were in some of the 12 civilian
vehicles - a well known al-Qaeda trick.

General Peter Pace, of the US Joint Chiefs of Staff, said: "There was an attack
on a convoy of leadership that was identified by intelligence means.

"The vehicles were destroyed, the people were killed and the compound from which
they left was destroyed."

US Defence Secretary Donald Rumsfeld said: "It was a large convoy and a lot of
people were killed and a number of vehicles damaged."

But the Afghan Defence Ministry said: "We have reports that 15 people were
killed from a delegation from the Paktia province. They were unarmed and in a
convoy to Kabul."

And Sayed Yaqeen, a member of the governing tribal council in Paktia, said: "The
convoy was to leave for Kabul to participate in the transfer of power ceremony
there."

There are believed to be al-Qaeda and Taliban training camps in the area. A
Taliban command and control centre was devastated in the raid.

The attack in Khwost, south of Tora Bora, in eastern Afghanistan was the first
time in three days US air power has been used to attack Afghanistan.

Hundreds of Marines are being sent to Tora Bora to search caves for intelligence
which could lead to bin Laden and reveal al-Qaeda plans.

The US is sending a powerful new bomb which blasts caves and sucks the air of
out them to Afghanistan.

US Under Secretary of Defense Edward Aldridge said the thermobaric bomb "is
something we clearly need".

Bin Laden is thought to have fled the complex and there have been reports he has
shaved off his beard and removed his turban.

Mr Rumsfeld said there was "no way" of knowing if he was dead or alive.

LOAD-DATE: December 22, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                            Copyright 2001 MGN Ltd.

                              229 of 251 DOCUMENTS

                                  Western Mail

                          December 22, 2001, Saturday

USAIRPORTS SEE ALMOST A THIRD FEWER PASSENGERS;
 FLIGHT: TRAFFIC PLUNGES FOLLOWING TERRORIST ATTACKS

SECTION: BUSINESS; Pg. 31

LENGTH: 169 words


PASSENGER traffic plunged more than 30pc at US airports in September, knocking
them from the top of the world rankings of busiest terminals.

"The tragic events of September 11 coupled with the worldwide economic slow down
to produce a worldwide decline of 15pc, " Airports Council International said.

Tokyo's Haneda was ranked as the world's busiest airport for the month by
bucking the trend and recording an increase to 5.18 million passengers, the
council said. London's Heathrow, with a 13.1pc drop to 5.1 million, was second.
Atlanta's Hartsfield, the usual leader, dropped to fourth place Top 10 1. Tokyo
Haneda 5.18 million passengers (+ 3.5pc) 2. London Heathrow 5.12m (-13.1pc) 3.
Frankfurt 4.4 million (-7.2pc) 4. Atlanta Hartsfield 4.11 million (-30.1pc) 5.
Paris Charles de Gaulle 4.1 million (-9pc) 6. Chicago O'Hare 3.9 million
(-34.1pc) 7. Amsterdam 3.6 million ( -5.1pc) 8. Los Angeles 3.4 million
(-33.1pc) 9. London Gatwick 3.2 million ( -6.3pc) 10. Madrid 3.1 million (+1.5)

LOAD-DATE: December 28, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                    Copyright 2001 Western Mail and Echo Ltd

                              230 of 251 DOCUMENTS



                                 Sunday Mirror

                           December 23, 2001, Sunday

TERROR GANGS HALT ATTACKS

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 68 words


THE militant Palestinian groups Hamas and Islamic Jihad have suspended suicide
attacks against Israel until further notice, in a bid to ease mounting strains
within the Palestinian Authority.

The show of solidarity was aimed at halting bloody fighting between Palestinian
police and militants, which reached a climax on Friday when six people were
killed and over 80 wounded in a gun battle in Gaza.

LOAD-DATE: December 23, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                            Copyright 2001 MGN Ltd.

                              231 of 251 DOCUMENTS

                             Sunday Times (London)

                           December 23, 2001, Sunday

A terrorist attack is coming to a town near you

SECTION: Features

LENGTH: 585 words


You might have heard this story - or something similar - a couple of times
before. A woman is walking in the street when she notices that a man of Arab
appearance has dropped his wallet. When she returns it, he says: "You have done
me a favour, now I will do you a favour. Stay out of the centre of town on
Thursday."

In September, the town in question was London. Last week the story had reached
Oslo and the pages of Aftenposten. There were several versions of the rumour,
but they all predicted an attack last Thursday.

"Someone is consciously trying to spread fear by passing on threats," a police
spokesman told the paper. "As such, that's a serious offence in itself. We have
investigated, but haven't been able to confirm that anyone actually found a
wallet and was warned of terrorism."

If the British experience is anything to go by, there will be another story
circulating in about three weeks, something on these lines: woman, wallet,
grateful Arab gentlemen, etc, etc. "Stay out of Stavanger," he says.

"Why?" says the woman. "Is there going to be an attack?"

"No," says the man. "But it's such a dump."

As if the Norwegians don't have enough to worry about. Borge Brende, the
country's environment minister, has been campaigning against the Sellafield
nuclear plant, saying that emissions of technetium radiation have been damaging
Norway's fish stocks.

But a chemistry professor last week dismissed Brende's campaign as "pure
populism". Professor Per Hoff told Aftenposten that he did not see Sellafield as
a threat to health. "It's like walking a dog in a neighbour's garden - rude and
unnecessary but not directly dangerous," he said. "Lobster is most vulnerable to
technetium, but a person would have to eat 150 tons of lobster a year to achieve
the levels of natural radiation that we are all exposed to."

Elsewhere in the world, newspapers have been turning their attention to
Christmas. And there was news of yet another crisis in New York. As if the city
hasn't suffered enough, the warm weather has created a slump in Christmas-tree
sales.

The New York Post reports: "Upper West Side vendor Danny Elias says this is the
slowest year he has seen for free sales." He told the paper: "I have been out
here for a week and all I have sold is five or six trees."

But the weather is not all to blame, says the Post. Christmas tree salesmen face
an even more serious threat: artificial trees. "A survey by the National
Christmas Tree Association found the number of real trees sold last year was
down 5m from 1995 sales," says the Post. "Only 31% of American households
displayed a real tree, while 49% went fake and 21% didn't bother."

One explanation is that Americans are too busy decorating their homes with
lavish displays of lights. They take decorating very seriously in America: some
towns even have competitions. And it looks as if the practice has spread to New
Zealand.

Pamela Wade, a columnist on the New Zealand Herald, is not impressed. "Drive
through any neighbourhood from now until mid-January and you will be dazzled by
the electrical profligacy," she says.

"Got a large lawn? The Santa sleigh with all seven reindeer is the one for you:
almost 2m high, 13m long and picked out with 3,000 lights. Unfortunately, these
illuminated glories present us with difficulties unsuspected by their northern
hemisphere manufacturers." The problem? The sticky tape used to fix the
decorations in place peels off in the hot summer sun.


LOAD-DATE: December 24, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: And the world said; Stop the week

                    Copyright 2001 Times Newspapers Limited

                              232 of 251 DOCUMENTS

                            Aberdeen Evening Express

                               December 24, 2001

City sex attack terror

BYLINE: gnicol

SECTION: NEWS; 999; Others; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 294 words


A SEX attacker has struck again in Aberdeen city centre.  Police were today
investigating whether the assault is linked to two other sex attacks in the same
area.

The latest terrifying incident saw a man grab a 30-year-old woman as she walked
along Bon Accord Crescent in the early hours of yesterday.

He dragged her along Bon Accord Crescent Lane into a nearby park.

The woman put up a fight and kicked the man, before breaking free and fleeing.

Detectives believe the attack was sexually motivated.

She was badly shaken, although uninjured, in the 1.15am incident.

They have not ruled out the possibility it is connected to two similar
incidents.

On Thursday, November 15, a 19-year-old was jumped by a man in Bon Accord
Crescent in the early hours.

As the pair struggled the man pulled at his victim's clothes and indecently
assaulted her.

But she fought back and eventually managed to break free.

And in July last year another 19-year-old girl was assaulted in Bon Accord
Crescent just moments after leaving her boyfriend in the early hours.

Police today appealed for any witnesses to the latest incident.

Det Insp Peter Willox said: "There are obvious similarities with the two other
attacks.

"The same team investigating the two previous incidents will be looking at this
one to see if it connected." Police said the victim - who was walking home alone
- had been left badly distressed.

DI Willox urged women to walk home in pairs where possible.

The latest attacker was in his late 30s, about 6ft 2in, slim, with short dark
hair, and was wearing a dark coloured jacket and trousers which were possibly
jeans.

Anyone with information should call Grampian Police on (01224) 386000 or
Crimestoppers on (0800) 555111.


LOAD-DATE: April 28, 2002

LANGUAGE: English

                    Copyright 2001 Aberdeen Evening Express

                              233 of 251 DOCUMENTS

                                THE BRISTOL POST

                               December 24, 2001

Giuliani's new attack warning;
 WAR ON TERROR: The latest stories from around the world

SECTION: News, Pg.4

LENGTH: 205 words


NEW YORK: Outgoing mayor of New York Rudolph Giuliani, who was named Time
magazine's Person of the Year, has said he expected another terrorist attack on
the city.

He also feared it would never be known how many people perished in the suicide
airliner hijacking attacks on the World Trade Centre on September 11.

Mr Giuliani told BBC1's Breakfast with Frost: "I anticipate another attack, and
try as much as I can to figure out what it would be, where it would be, are we
prepared for it, are we doing all the things that we can to prepare for it?" In
the interview, billed as the first he had given to Britain, Mr Giuliani also
said he wanted to see an interactive memorial to those who died in the World
Trade Centre.

He said that although the death toll of the attacks was now about 3,000, he
added: "Are there people that we don't have records of?

"Yes, sure, there have to be, the numbers were that large."

Time magazine's editors chose Giuliani as the Person of the Year, "for having
more faith in us than we had in ourselves, for being brave when required and
rude where appropriate and tender without being trite, for not sleeping and not
quitting and not shrinking from the pain all around him."

LOAD-DATE: December 24, 2001

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                      Copyright 2001 Bristol United Press

                              234 of 251 DOCUMENTS

                            The Independent (London)

                           December 24, 2001, Monday

CAMPAIGN AGAINST TERRORISM: AMERICANS 'DUPED' INTO ATTACK ON CONVOY

BYLINE: Kim Sengupta In Kabul Yaqub Khan, who said he was injured in the US
attack on the convoy.; Most of those killed came from Asmani Kilai, which was
also bombed Syed; Haider Shah/Reuters

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 802 words


Campaign against terrorism.
  A TALE of tribal treachery, Arab mercenaries and how the Americans may have
been used to settle an Afghan blood feud emerged yesterday behind the bombing of
a convoy that left up to 60 people dead and 40 injured.

The killings threatened to cast a shadow over the new interim government of
Hamid Karzai, who took office on Saturday. The casualties were said to be on
their way to Kabul from the eastern province of Paktia for the inauguration when
they were attacked by US Air Force AC-130 gunships and Navy jets.

The news of the strikes had a major impact on delegates gathered in the capital.
The Pentagon, however, insisted that the vehicles the warplanes had raided were
al-Qa'ida ones. The commander of the Afghan War, General Tommy Franks, said that
his forces were acting on intelligence and had retaliated after coming under
fire from two surface-to-air missiles.

But it has now been claimed that "intelligence" had been supplied to the
Americans by a Paktia warlord, Pacha Khan, who had a score to settle with
members of the nomadic Kochi clan - who have a reputation for lawlessness -
travelling in the convoy. Local villagers said he had deliberately misinformed
the Americans that the vehicles contained al-Qa'ida fighters and engineered the
air attack.

Mr Khan is a powerful man whose brother is a minister in Mr Karzai's new
cabinet. He is also said to be close to the American commanders.

According to the locals, his men blocked the convoy from the main road between
the towns of Khost and Gardez, forcing it to get on to a remote mountain pass,
thus making it appear it was attempting to avoid detection.

All 24 vehicles were hit and most of them destroyed as the warplanes struck just
after 6pm on Thursday and carried out repeated sorties. Among the killed and
injured, it was reported, were two mujahedin commanders, Mohammed Ibrahim, whose
brother Jalaluddin Haqqani was a minister in the Taliban government, and Haji
Nayim Kochi, a clan elder.

The twisted and burnt wreckage of the cars and buses lay mangled near the town
of Soto Kondou, 50 miles east of Khost, yesterday. The villagers of Asmani
Kilai, where most of the people in the convoy came from, spoke of how Pacha Khan
had allegedly got the Americans to do their dirty work, naming him as the
malicious informer.

One villager, Agha Mohammed, said: "There were no terrorists here. They have
destroyed an entire village, we have nothing left."

Another, Khodai Noor, said: "The people who got hit were going to congratulate
Karzai on the transfer of power. There are no members of al-Qa'ida or supporters
of Osama bin Laden here."

One of those hit was Haji Yaqub Khan Tanaiwal, 65, who suffered multiple
fractures to his right leg and injuries to his arms. Speaking at a hospital near
Peshawar, across the Pakistani border, he said: "Those who reported on the
convoy must have a grudge against some people in it. The Americans know who gave
them the report. They should not rely on people like that.

"We were first told that the road was closed and then armed men made us get off
the road. There was not a single shot fired from the convoys. But the planes
attacked. There were about six people in each car, and every car was hit. Those
who survived the first attack ran for cover, under trees. Others were trapped
inside their cars. There were no Talibans in the convoy. We all support the new
government and the US because they supported us in the jihad against the
Russians. I fought in that war."

General Shahnawaz Tanai, from the same area, fought against Mr Tanaiwal in that
war. The general, who was chief-of-staff to President Najibullah, who was later
murdered by the Taliban, said: "I know Haji Yaqub. He is no Taliban."

But Pacha Khan's brother denied that anyone from his family had informed on the
convoy and said the dead were all Osama bin Laden's Arab fighters, who had set
up base in Paktia and the provinces of Paktia, Helmand and Khost.

Amanullah Zadran, the new minister for borders, who had just attended his first
cabinet meeting, said in Kabul: "We do have contacts with Americans and we have
told them about al-Qa'ida. I do know the Americans have a photo of a Stinger
missile being fired at them. There are around 350 Arabs who are in this area:
they are mercenaries who are paid by the UAE (United Arab Emirates). They were
trying to escape to Pakistan when they were attacked. I have seen pictures of
four of the dead, they are Arabs.

"We did not tell the Americans about the convoy. Their planes found it," he
said.

t The former Taliban ambassador to Pakistan, Mullah Abdul Salam Zaeef, who
became one of the best-known faces of the war in Afghanistan, said yesterday he
had applied for political asylum in Pakistan.

LOAD-DATE: December 24, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 2001 Independent Print Ltd

                              235 of 251 DOCUMENTS



                                   The Mirror

                           December 24, 2001, Monday

WAR ON TERROR: THE SHOE BOMBER: C4 LINK TO ATTACKS;
 THE EXPLOSIVE

BYLINE: Charlie Bain And Deborah Sheldon

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 60 words

HIGHLIGHT: LETHAL: Sample of C4


THE C4 explosive has been linked to several attacks by the al-Qaeda terrorist
network.

It was used on the American warship USS Cole, killing 17 sailors in 2000 and on
military quarters in Saudi Arabia leaving 19 dead in 1996.

A white putty made from powder, it was developed by America during the Vietnam
war but is now produced in Iraq and Iran.

LOAD-DATE: December 24, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                            Copyright 2001 MGN Ltd.

                              236 of 251 DOCUMENTS



                                   The Mirror

                           December 24, 2001, Monday

WAR ON TERROR: THE HOPES AND FEARS: RUDY FEAR OF ATTACKS

BYLINE: Bob Roberts

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 113 words


NEW York Mayor Rudolph Giuliani yesterday issued a warning of more terror
attacks.

He said: "I anticipate another attack. I try as much as I can to figure out what
it will be, where it will be and are we prepared for it?

"After the attack, we to try to anticipate new things."

In an interview with the BBC's Breakfast With Frost programme - recorded before
a man tried to blow up a transatlantic flight on Saturday - the 57-year-old also
spoke of his hopes for a "searing, beautiful memorial" to those who died in the
World Trade Centre.

And he told how New York has already bounced back and is "a stronger place". He
steps down as mayor on December 31.

LOAD-DATE: December 24, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                            Copyright 2001 MGN Ltd.

                              237 of 251 DOCUMENTS

                                  Morning Star

                               December 24, 2001

Giuliani voices fear of another terrorist attack on New York;

SECTION:  Pg. 3

LENGTH: 162 words


OUTGOING New York Mayor Rudolph Giuliani said yesterday that he expected another
terrorist attack on the city.

He also feared that it would never be known how many people perished in the
suicide airliner hijacking attacks on the World Trade Centre on September 11.

He said in a BBC interview: "I anticipate another attack.

"I try as much as I can to figure out what it would be, where it would be, are
we prepared for it, are we doing all the things that we can to prepare for it?"

Mr Giuliani also set out his hopes for a memorial to those who died in the World
Trade Centre.

It had to be something interactive which would commemorate the dead and serve as
a testament to the evil of terrorism - but, above all, would be a "searing,
beautiful memorial."

Although the death toll is now calculated to have been about 3,000, he added:
"Are there people that we don't have records of?

"Yes, sure, there have to be. The numbers were that large."

LOAD-DATE: January 1, 2002

               Copyright 2001 People's Press Printing Society Ltd

                              238 of 251 DOCUMENTS

                            The Independent (London)

                          December 26, 2001, Wednesday

WORLD LEADERS CALL FOR TOLERANCE TO BE LEGACY OF TERROR ATTACKS ON AMERICA

BYLINE: Lorna Duckworth Social Affairs Correspondent Bush: Special message to
terrorist victims' families

SECTION: TITLE PAGE; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 308 words


CHURCH LEADERS and heads of state called yesterday for greater tolerance, hope
and humanity to spring from the 11 September terrorist attacks.

Adopting a solemn tone for her 50th Christmas message, the Queen referred to a
year of "trials and disasters", which had included the floods and the foot-and
-mouth epidemic at home. But it was "the human conflicts and the wanton acts of
crime and terror against fellow human beings which have so appalled us all," she
said.

"The terrorist outrages in the United States last September brought home to us
the pain and grief of ordinary people the world over who find themselves
innocently caught up in such evil."

Pope John Paul II said religion must never be an excuse for violence and
intolerance and that mankind's biggest task was, "to give us back the right to
hope".

Looking frail and tired as he sat on the balcony of St Peter's Basilica in Rome,
he said: "May God's holy name never be used as a justification for hatred. Let
it never be used as an excuse for intolerance and violence."

The Archbishop of Canterbury, Dr George Carey, said the devastation in New York
could bring "waves of new hope and new life" just like the birth of Christ. But
he warned it would take a "strong commitment" to shared Christian values to
overcome "intolerance and extremism" and it would be a mistake to rely on
"emotion or collective grief".

George Bush, the American President, sent a special message to families who lost
relatives in the 11 September attacks and attempted to bolster national morale
in a radio broadcast from Camp David.

"This Christmas finds many facing hurt and loss, especially the families of
terror victims and of our young men killed in battle," he said.

"America grieves with you, and we hope you'll especially find the comfort and
hope of Christmas."

LOAD-DATE: December 26, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 2001 Independent Print Ltd

                              239 of 251 DOCUMENTS

                                 Bath Chronicle

                               December 27, 2001

Terror leader admits he was behind towers attack;
 BIN LADEN VIDEO: mystery over fate of world's most wanted criminal

BYLINE: Wayne Veysey ;John Deane PA News

SECTION: News, Pg.6

LENGTH: 392 words


MYSTERY continued to shroud the fate of Osama bin Laden today, following the
broadcast of a new video of the terrorist leader.

Qatar-based television station AlJazeera screened a clip from the tape showing
the rifle-bearing al Qaida leader in military fatigues, accusing the United
States of hypocrisy, claiming that America speaks about humanity and freedom but
commits crimes against millions of Afghans.

It was not clear, however, when the tape was made - nor whether it was intended
as a signal to the world that bin Laden was still alive.

There has been no trace of the Saudi dissident since a combination of US bombing
and American and tribal ground fighters flushed al Qaida guerillas out of their
cave hideouts in the Tora Bora region of eastern Afghanistan more than a week
ago.

US officials say bin Laden may have perished in the onslaught and American
special forces have been scouring the caves looking for clues as to his fate.

But Washington has also acknowledged that Bin Laden may have escaped, possibly
fleeing across the border into Pakistan.

The new video is inconclusive on the fate of the prime suspect in the September
11 terror attacks. There is nothing to clarify exactly when the tape was made,
nor where.

However, bin Laden indicates that the tape was made to mark the threemonth
anniversary of September 11, and two months since the start of the US bombing of
Afghanistan - that would suggest it was made around a fortnight ago.

Bin Laden also refers to the bombing of a mosque in Khost as happening "several
days" beforehand. US Central Command said a misdirected US bomb damaged a mosque
in the town of Khost on November 16.

In the video, bin Laden claims that the West hates Islam and says that the
September 11 attacks on New York, Washington and Pennsylvania were intended to
dissuade the Americans from supporting Israel in its conflict with the
Palestinians. It was, he says, a form of "benevolent terrorism".

In London, a Foreign Office spokesman said that it could not comment in detail
until it had analysed the full tape, and a translation.

The spokesman added, however, that if media reports about the tape were correct
then bin Laden had effectively "admitted responsibility for the attacks on the
US, which is what we have said all along - that he was responsible".

LOAD-DATE: December 31, 2001

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                      Copyright 2001 Bristol United Press

                              240 of 251 DOCUMENTS

                            Daily Post (North Wales)

                          December 27, 2001, Thursday

LEADERS URGE UNITY IN FACE OF TERROR ATTACKS

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 277 words


POLITICAL and church leaders in Wales yesterday spoke of the horror and fear
which shook the world after the US terrorist attacks.

Archbishop of Wales Dr Rowan Williams, just streets away from the World Trade
Centre towers when they fell, said in his Christmas message: "We have probably
been more frightened this year than we've been for a long time.

"We face new conflicts that are in many ways far worse, because we're dealing
with enemies who are both hidden and, it seems, beyond negotiating with. How do
you threaten someone who is quite ready to die for what they believe?"

He said the "nightmare" of September 11 had led people to conclude the real
problem in the world was religious faith.

But the Archbishop warned that all faiths were capable of being distorted and,
he argued, if faith was shut out of the public arena, it encouraged isolation
and misuse by fanatics.

"Only with this sense of humility and trust can we get beyond fear, " he said.
"The problem isn't belief in God. It is that so many of us, Christians, Jews,
Muslims, here or in the USA or in the Holy Land, don't believe in God enough to
make us humble and trustful."

Meanwhile First Minister Rhodri Morgan, in his Christmas message, warned: "We
must never forget the events of September 1. Nothing should undermine the values
that we hold dear - freedom, democracy and the right to live in a tolerant and
civilised society."

He said no matter what happened in the turbulent world outside, "we won't let
anything divide us here in Wales, " adding that Wales needed that strength and
unity to cope with the rigours of 2001, including foot-and-mouth.

LOAD-DATE: December 27, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

               Copyright 2001 The Liverpool Daily Post & Echo Ltd

                              241 of 251 DOCUMENTS

                     Belfast News Letter (Northern Ireland)

                           December 28, 2001, Friday

WAR ON TERRORISM: BIN LADEN SPEAKS OF 'BLESSED ATTACKS'

BYLINE: Gavin Cordon

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 495 words

HIGHLIGHT: MESSAGE: Osama bin Laden, speaking in a video tape broadcast on;
Qatar -based TV station al-Jazeera


OSAMA bin Laden appeared last night in a broadcast which experts claimed linked
him more closely to involvement in the US atrocities.

Looking gaunt and dressed in a green camouflage jacket with a sub machine gun
propped up beside him, he said the atrocities against the US were "blessed
attacks".

On the tape, broadcast by Arabic-language Qatar-based Al-Jazeera television, bin
Laden said: "Our terrorism is against America. Our terrorism is a blessed
terrorism to prevent the unjust person from committing injustice and to stop
American support for Israel, which kills our sons."

He added: "If America had sound evidence that those who carried out the attacks
were Europeans, such as the IRA, then it would possess many ways to solve this
problem.

"But, since there was a mere suspicion that indicated the Islamic world, the
real ugly face and the Crusader hatred against the Islamic world were revealed."

Abdul-Ridha Asiri, a political science teacher at Kuwait University, said the
new tape offered further confirmation bin Laden was "not only responsible for
the September 11 attacks, but also the attack in Kenya".

Asiri said it looked as though bin Laden was "delivering his last message".

Meanwhile, US Defence Secretary Donald Rumsfeld spoke of the difficulty of
tracking bin Laden down.

He said: "We do know of certain knowledge that he is in either Afghanistan or in
some other country, or dead. We know of certain knowledge that we don't know
which of those happens to be the case."

"I have said all along that if you walked in and said 'Here is Mr bin Laden',
the problem would not go away. There are any number of people in the al Qaida
network who could continue to operate that network, and would."

In Washington, White House spokesman Scott McClellan dismissed bin Laden's video
as "nothing more than the same kind of terrorist propaganda we've heard before".

Al-Jazeera first broadcast excerpts last night and the station showed the entire
33-minute tape last night.

Meanwhile, United States intelligence officers were last night preparing to
interrogate 20 suspected al Qaida fighters captured after they fled the Afghan
mountains where Osama bin Laden is thought to have been hiding.

The Pentagon said it hoped that the prisoners, who were captured after they
crossed the border into Pakistan, would be able to shed some light on the al
Qaida leader's whereabouts.

"We want to talk to them pretty thoroughly," said Pentagon spokeswoman Victoria
Clarke.

The men, who were fleeing heavy fighting in the Tora Bora mountains in eastern
Afghanistan, have now been transferred to a US Marines base near Kandahar.

Meanwhile, new Afghan prime minister Hamid Karzai played down claims that bin
Laden was hiding with "friends" of the leader of a militant Islamic party in
Pakistan.

"We don't know where he is. But wherever he is, he should be arrested and
brought to international justice," he said.

LOAD-DATE: December 28, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

                   Copyright 2001 Century Newspapers Limited

                              242 of 251 DOCUMENTS

                                THE BRISTOL POST

                               December 28, 2001

'Our blessed attacks';
 WAR ON TERROR: The latest stories from around the world

SECTION: News, Pg.4

LENGTH: 109 words


AFGHANISTAN: Osama bin Laden launched a new phase of his 'holy war' against the
West yesterday in the full version of his latest videotape.

The suspected mastermind of the September 11 attacks, looking gaunt and dressed
in a green camouflage jacket with a sub machine gun propped up beside him, said
the atrocities against the US were "blessed attacks".

On the tape, broadcast by Arabic-language Qatar-based Al-Jazeera television, bin
Laden said: "Our terrorism is against America. Our terrorism is a blessed
terrorism to prevent the unjust person from committing injustice and to stop
American support for Israel, which kills our sons."

LOAD-DATE: December 31, 2001

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                      Copyright 2001 Bristol United Press

                              243 of 251 DOCUMENTS

                         The Evening Standard (London)

                               December 28, 2001

Afghans demand end to US air attacks;
Campaign Against Terror

SECTION: Pg. 4

LENGTH: 127 words


AFGHANISTAN today demanded that America halt its bombing as soon as the last
remaining border hideouts of the Taliban and Osama bin Laden have been
destroyed.

Afghan defence ministry spokesman Mohammad Habeel said: " Their remaining forces
are few in number and may be annihilated in a maximum of three days and once
this is done there is no need for the continuation of the bombing.

"We demand America stop its bombing of Afghanistan after this goal is achieved.
America cannot bomb Afghanistan at will."

His remarks come a day after a tribal elder said interim leader Hamid Karzai
would ask the US to halt aerial attacks on the eastern Paktia province, where a
convoy of guests to his inauguration was bombed, killing about 65 people.


LOAD-DATE: December 29, 2001

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                   Copyright 2001 Associated Newspapers Ltd.

                              244 of 251 DOCUMENTS

                                 Liverpool Echo

                           December 28, 2001, Friday

2001 - THE YEAR THE WORLD CHANGED FOREVER;
 LEADER: THE SECOND HALF OF 2001 WAS DOMINATED BY THE US TERROR ATTACKS, AS
FELICITY NEWSON REPORTS . . .

BYLINE: Felicity Newson

SECTION: LEADER; Pg. 6,7

LENGTH: 973 words


JULY

UNEMPLOYED loner Barry George was jailed for life for murdering Jill Dando.

Millionaire novelist Lord Archer was imprisoned for four years for perverting
the course of justice and perjury.

At Wimbledon, Goran Ivanisevic won a memorable five-set final against Pat
Rafter, becoming the only 'wild card' player ever to win the championship.

Anti-capitalist protesters clashed with police in Genoa, as world leaders
arrived for the G8 summit. One demonstrator was killed.

Sir Paul McCartney and Heather Mills announced their engagement.

Liverpool airport was renamed Liverpool John Lennon Airport and Yoko Ono
unveiled the new logo.

Everton F.C. won the bid for the Queen's Dock site.

Schizophrenic Andrew Kernan died after being shot by police marksmen. He had
burst out of his Wavertree home, brandishing a sword.

The Cammell Laird shipyard was to be mothballed and most of the 361 workers were
made redundant.

Army Green Goddess vehicles were drafted in to cover for striking Merseyside
firemen.

And Bob Dylan, Shirley Bassey and Tom Jones were among the stars who headlined
at the Summer Pops at the King's Dock.

AUGUST

The Queen Mother celebrated her 101st birthday with a walkabout, despite having
suffered from anaemia and needing a blood transfusion in hospital.

Neil and Christine Hamilton were arrested following accusations of 'serious
sexual assault'. The action was later dropped.

Northern Ireland secretary John Reid hit out at the IRA after terrorists
withdrew a plan to put their weapons beyond use.

Shipbuilders A&P bought Cammell Laird's, causing fears about asset-stripping.

Revellers enjoyed a marathon three days of pop over the Bank Holiday weekend,
thanks to Creamfields, the Party at the Pier and the Mathew Street festival.

SEPTEMBER

Thousands were killed when terrorists directed two hijacked passenger planes
into the twin towers of the World Trade Center, which burst into flames and
collapsed.

A third hijacked plane destroyed part of the Pentagon.

Osama bin Laden, who was being protected by the Taliban regime in Afghanistan,
was identified as the mastermind behind the outrage.

President Bush announced that there would be no hiding place for Bin Laden and
told troops to prepare for retaliation.

Tony Blair pledged Britain's full backing in any strikes made against those
responsible.

Other news included Iain Duncan Smith beating Kenneth Clarke in the race for the
Tory leadership.

England celebrated a 5-1 trouncing of Germany in the World Cup qualifier. All
goals were scored by Liverpool players, including a Michael Owen hat-trick.

Terrified Catholic youngsters ran the gauntlet of abuse from Protestants trying
to prevent them from going to school in the Ardoyne.

In Liverpool businessman John Ritchie from Halewood told how he and wife Dot had
a miracle escape from the New York atrocity.

A memorial service at the Metropolitan Cathedral was attended by 2,000. And
Liverpudlians queued at the Town Hall to sign three books of condolence.

And Girobank staff arrived at work to find 400 jobs were to be axed.

OCTOBER

The US gave compelling evidence to NATO of the complicity of Bin Laden and the
Al Qaida network in the New York terrorist attack.

Operation Enduring Freedom was launched in Afghanistan amid a hail of cruise
missiles and laser guided bombs.

Combined US/British air strikes were directed at 30 military targets.

There was a new wave of terror in the U.S. as anthrax was sent through the mail
to media officers and government buildings.

Michael Stone was found guilty of the murders of Lin and Megan Russell, for the
second time.

The IRA started decommissioning weapons in a historic move to save the peace
process.

In Liverpool Gerard Houllier had an 11-hour open heart surgery operation after
becoming unwell watching his team play Leeds.

An 11-year-old boy was hit by a stray bullet in a gangland murder.

The victim was Tony Lawlor, whose brother Stephen had been killed a few months
earlier.

NOVEMBER

B52 bombers besieged the frontline north of Kabul as President Bush announced
there would be no let-up in bombing over Ramadan.

Later in the month the Taliban's last stronghold of Kandahar fell and there was
a peaceful surrender as the northern alliance troops entered the citadel.

BA Concorde returned to the skies, more than a year after all planes were
grounded as a result of the Paris air crash.

Twelve planespotters appeared in a Greek court on spying charges after allegedly
photographing military jets.

There was mourning all over the world for former Beatle George Harrison, who
lost his fight against cancer, aged 58.

The mood was subdued in Liverpool as flags were flown at halfmast, floral
tributes were laid and books of condolence opened.

The Walton sextuplets notched up their 18th birthdays.

Hilary Rowland, Chief Executive at Alder Hey hospital, was found guilty of
misconduct and sacked.

DECEMBER

Foreign Secretary Jack Straw comdemned as 'abhorrent' a wave of bombings in
Israel which killed 26 people and injured nearly 200 more.

The Bonn Accord was signed, establishing a 30-member interim cabinet to run
Afghanistan for six months.

A terrorist with a British passport tried to blow up a US jet in mid-air by
detonating a bomb in his shoes.

Robbie Williams scooped a festive double, landing the Christmas Number One
single and album.

Pathologist Dick van Velzen was to face a criminal investigation over the Alder
Hey baby organs scandal.

The ECHO launched a campaign to stop cash from the Mersey tunnel tolls being
used to subsidise other forms of public transport.

And soldier Peter Clarke was sentenced to life for shooting Stephen Lawlor dead
in a Liverpool gangland murder.

LOAD-DATE: December 28, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: NOVEMBER: The world said goodbye to the quiet Beatle, George; Harrison
AUGUST: Samantha Mumba at Party At The Pier SEPTEMBER: Ian Duncan; Smith
NOVEMBER: Hilary Rowland NOVEMBER: The triumphant Northern Alliance were cheered
as they entered Kabul SEPTEMBER: The south tower of the World; Trade Centre
collapses while the north tower burns, after two passenger planes were flown
into them. Thousands were killed OCTOBER: The US gave evidence to NATO that
Osama Bin Laden was behind the terror attacks

               Copyright 2001 The Liverpool Daily Post & Echo Ltd

                              245 of 251 DOCUMENTS

                            South Wales Evening Post

                               December 28, 2001

Terrorist attacks shock the world
 REVIEW OF THE YEAR Hijacked planes smash into Twin Towers

BYLINE: By Liam Sullivan features writer

SECTION: MEDIA: NEWSPAPERS, Pg.30

LENGTH: 2037 words


THE world watched in horror as terrorists launched a brutal assault on New
York.Two hijacked planes smashed into the Twin Towers of the World Trade Center
on the morning of September 11.

Within an hour the towers collapsed onto the streets below.

Thousands were either killed or injured, many of them firefighters who rushed
into the basement in the immediate aftermath of the skyscrapers being attacked.

Swansea man Mark Ray, who moved to New York three years ago, heard both
explosions as the centre , the symbol of America's financial power , came under
fire.

I have a clear view from my house of the towers and basically all I can see is
smoke," he said just hours later.

I was sitting on my sofa watching TV when the first explosion happened.

The TV stations went off so I channel-surfed until I came across the one
remaining station.

That's when I realised what had happened."

Among those unaccounted for were Catherine James, of West Cross, who was working
in the 110-storey towers. Banker Nicholas John, whose parents hail from Dunvant,
was also missing.

Washington was also targeted as a hijacked plane crashed into the Pentagon, the
heart of the American military machine.

Muslims living in South Wales were warned to be on their guard against knee-jerk
revenge attacks.

Holidaymakers hoping to head for America saw their flights grounded amid
security fears.

America and Britain responded to the assault by launching a war against
terrorism and waging a hunt for Osama Bin Laden, the man suspected of being
behind the atrocity.

Swans fans react angrily to new owner who buys club for GBP 1

SWANSEA City Football Club was sold for a quid , a deal that triggered a chain
of events unprecedented in the club's history.

The new owner was businessman Tony Petty, an Australian-based Londoner who made
his mark within a week of taking over by trying to sack seven players and slash
the wages of eight others.

It was an act that provoked scenes of outrage among supporters.

Football League officials and players' union chiefs were called in amid claims
Petty's actions were illegal.

Meanwhile, the newly -formed Supporters' Trust organised a public meeting and
staged protest marches through the city centre on match days, all the while
insisting Petty should hand over the club to the people of Swansea.

But the chairman stood firm in the face of public feeling, rejecting a series of
offers to take control.

Even so, he could not have been prepared for the welcome that greeted him when
he sat in the directors' box to watch Swansea's Third Division match with
Rushden and Diamonds at The Vetch.

For 90 minutes he was jeered, barracked, abused and threatened. After the match
Mike Lewis, the man who sold him the club, was punched and spat at by angry fans
who saw him drinking in the club bar.

But the drama wasn't over as former director Mel Nurse bought an GBP 800,000
debt from previous owners Ninth Floor and forced a court case where he tried to
have the club placed into administration.

But the judge eventually ruled in Petty's favour, meaning he kept control of the
Swans.

However, fans show no intention of letting the matter lie and Petty's car was
damaged by a bottle as the club slipped to an embarrassing 4-1 FA Cup defeat at
Macclesfield.

Steel plant hit by tragedy

Three die from explosions in No. 5 furnace

PORT Talbot was rocked by tragedy when a series of explosions at the huge steel
plant left three people dead and others fighting for their lives.

Stephen Galsworthy, aged 25, Andrew Hutin, 20, and 53-year-old Len Radford were
killed after the blasts at the Corus plant.

The bodies of Stephen and Andrew, both of Port Talbot, were found by rescuers.

Len, of Maesteg, died in hospital almost a week later. Hundreds turned out to
pay their last respects at the funerals of the three men.

It was 5.17pm on a Thursday evening when three explosions tore through the
plant's No. 5 furnace.

A serious escape of molten metal then poured from the furnace as the blast
ripped through it.

Flames from the explosion shot 100ft into the sky and could be seen from miles
around.

It was immediately followed by a huge pall of smoke. But fears the blast might
have released poisonous fumes into the atmosphere were eased after police
checks.

Traffic on the nearby M4 came to a standstill as ambulances carrying the injured
made their way to hospital. Most of the casualties were taken to the burns unit
at Morriston.This is the most major incident we have suffered since the burns
unit moved to Morriston," said Hamish Laing, clinical director of the burns
unit.

It was later claimed furnace five was due to be relined in 2004 and contractors
had been working on it as an interim measure.

DNA tests find killer

A TWICE-married father-of-three was this month revealed as the man who killed
two teenage girls in Llandarcy in 1973.

Joe Kappen, who died in 1990, was also believed to have murdered two other women
and raped several others.

The Port Talbot man died of lung cancer at the age of 49.

South Wales Police are considering digging up his grave in Goytre Cemetery to
finally prove his guilt.

The murders of 16-year-olds Geraldine Hughes and Pauline Floyd, who were
strangled and sexually assaulted in Llandarcy Woods, baffled police for three
decades.

Three months earlier 16-year-old Sandra Newton was killed in similar
circumstances.

Kappen has also been connected to the murder of 22-year -old Maureen Mulcahy in
1976. She was also strangled.

Police linked Kappen to the killings after more than a year of advanced DNA
testing.

JULY

THE body of a man was pulled from a car driven into Swansea Docks , just hours
after police believe he killed a young Neath mother-of-two. Beverley Payne was
murdered at her home in Bryncoch. Her son answered the door to a visitor a few
hours later and said: I think my Mummy is dead." The man pulled from the water
was later named as Gorseinon builder Nicholas Davies.

Swansea East Assembly Member Val Feld died in hospital after receiving treatment
for cancer. Val, 53, had lived in Swansea for 22 years. She will be credited
with being one of the architects of devolution," said Swansea West AM Andrew
Davies.

Voucher parking was finally clamped in Swansea thanks to massive public
opposition. Council chiefs wanted to charge motorists 80p an hour to park in the
city centre, but more than 1,100 businesses and 15,000 residents signed up to
oppose the plans.

Swansea slipped out of the top 100 rated shopping centres in Britain. The list
reflected areas with the brightest prospects. Swansea was 108th, Neath 293rd,
Port Talbot 382nd, Carmarthen 464th and Llanelli 549th.

AUGUST

A SWANSEA Lottery winner appeared in court for claiming benefits meant for
people living on the breadline. Yvonne White, of Clase, scooped GBP 342,465 on
the National Lottery but still claimed rent rebate and council tax benefit. She
was fined GBP 250 and GBP 100 costs by magistrates.

Neath rugby star Allan Bateman revealed he was offered GBP 5,000 to throw an
international match. Bateman said a well-known player offered him the bribe
ahead of the Five Nations clash between Ireland and Wales in 1990.

A massive blaze broke out in Swansea, sending out a dense cocktail of chemicals.
The fire took hold at the Millbrook Industrial Estate in Landore and at one
stage threatened to engulf a nearby petrol station.

A teenager drowned after being swept away in a flash flood while swimming in a
river in the Upper Neath Valley. Jason Dalton, aged 17, from Bargoed, was
dragged under the waters of the Sychryd, near Pontneddfechan. Safety experts
launched an immediate investigation.

SEPTEMBER

DEMONSTRATORS handcuffed themselves to machinery and staged a sit-down protest
as the battle to stop Swansea's controversial incinerator plant stepped up.
Around 50 protesters gathered at the Crymlyn Burrows site and one man was
arrested after he was cut free from a crane.

Seventy pupils at a Swansea comprehensive school were banned from lessons
because they were not wearing proper uniform. Girls wearing high heels and
platform shoes were among pupils herded into the school hall at Olchfa and
denied access to lessons. The mother of one girl said: If she'd had her nose
pierced and her head shaved I could understand it."

Swansea Airport was going international with the launch of a three-times a day
service to Dublin. It was hoped to be the start of big things for Fairwood with
many more European destinations in the pipeline.

Callous thieves were risking lives by stealing from ambulances while crews were
inside people's homes trying to keep them alive. Twice in a matter of weeks
ambulances were targeted while left unattended and special mobile phones capable
of sending vital heart monitoring information back to the hospital were stolen.

OCTOBER

A SUSPECT package sparked an anthrax alert at the DVLA. Chemical incident teams
rushed to the Morriston offices and a mailbag was taken to a decontamination
unit. The alert followed a series of similar incidents in America which left a
number of people dead. It later emerged the package was harmless but could have
been a malicious hoax.

The ambitious Castle Quays project was back on track after a GBP 13million cash
injection. The money, vital to kick-start the GBP 160million city centre
shopping scheme, was approved by Welsh Assembly First Minister Rhodri Morgan.

Mobile CCTV cameras were to be brought in to tackle crime in problem hot-spots
across Neath and Port Talbot. The Afan Valley, Cimla and Sandfields were all
targeted for the cameras.

It emerged toddler Tara Jenkins had been expelled from school twice , even
though she was aged just four. She put a child in hospital and attacked three
teachers in two weeks at Penyrheol Primary School. That followed problems at a
nursery school. Mum Rebecca said Tara was diagnosed with behavioural problems
and called on Swansea Council to provide specialist education.

NOVEMBER

THREE generations of one family were killed in a horrific house fire in
Llanelli. Lana Balbini aged 22 children Stuart three and Shane one and mother
Larrine died in the blaze in Tumble which saw the roof of the house collapse.

A shock report claimed mentally ill patients at a Swansea hospital poured their
hearts out to cleaners as there were not enough qualified psychiatric staff. It
also said terrified patients at Cefn Coed regularly witnessed violent attacks on
staff including a stabbing.

A court heard police who went to a house in Neath found an eight-year-old boy
covered in lice and reeking of urine and faeces. They also discovered his two
younger brothers crying and moaning in a room whose door had been tied with
flex. Their mother was jailed for two-and-a-half years for child neglect and
their father jailed for three months.

Residents vowed to fight plans to build houses and a car park in Clyne Gardens.
Swansea Council's plans sparked an immediate reaction from people living nearby
who vowed to bombard the authority with letters. Within weeks council chiefs had
scrapped the plans.

DECEMBER

An 83-year-old woman died in a Swansea house fire despite frantic efforts by
family and neighbours to rescue her. Dorothy King was asleep in her house in
Caldicot Close Bonymaen when the blaze broke out.

Three workmen dived into freezing water to rescue a woman who had driven into
Swansea Docks. Stephan Knuszka Stephen Parkin and Phil Hoppe saved the life of
the woman who witnesses claim drove her car intentionally into the water. They
are likely to receive bravery awards for their actions.

Pubs and clubs were told they risked a 24-hour shutdown if they were linked with
yobbish behaviour. New police powers forced landlords across South West Wales to
stop rowdy customers causing problems as they left.

One of Swansea's best known buildings was at the centre of a GBP 1.1million plan
to breathe new life into it in the 21st century. Swansea Council was working
with Cardiff-based management company Red Kite to transform the Patti Pavilion
in Victoria Park into a top leisure and cultural centre.

LOAD-DATE: December 31, 2001

LANGUAGE: English

GRAPHIC: destruction Rescue workers look over damage at the Pentagon. brutal
assault A jet airliner is pictured just before it smashed into one of the World
Trade Center towers in New York on September 11. historic changes Swans fans
with Swansea City Supporters Trust banner (above left) and Swans captain Nick
Cusack questioning new chairman Tony Petty over his reasons for trying to sack
players. D011010/4960/JC and D011016/0076/JC furnace five The scene at the Corus
steel plant following the explosions. D011109/0470/AD Watching the destruction
of financial power attack view Mark Ray (above), of Swansea, who heard the
explosions of the aerial terrorist attack on New York 010911/4352/HD an
exhausted firefighter at the World Trade Center.

                    Copyright 2001 South Wales Evening Post

                              246 of 251 DOCUMENTS

                                 Bath Chronicle

                               December 29, 2001

Log on and light a candle for peace;
 DIVERSE CULTURES: terror attacks have made mission more relevant

BYLINE: Kylie Pentelow

SECTION: News, Pg.18

LENGTH: 321 words


A BATH-based group has launched an innovative new way for people to light a
candle for peace.

Time for Peace, which aims to bring diverse cultures together through the arts,
has a virtual candle on its website that can be lit with the simple click of a
mouse.

Organisers hope that the Candle of Reconciliation will be lit by people all over
the world to signify peace.

Lizanne Davies, a director of Time for Peace, said the idea for the candle arose
more than a year ago.

But after the terrorist attacks in America, peace and reconciliation in the
world became even more relevant for the group.

Ms Davies said: "When September 11 happened, it seemed like the right time for
the candle to be launched. But it is not just for people who are grieving.

"The dedication that is written below the candle can apply to people of all
religions. It was carefully worded and I can't imagine that anyone would be
offended by it."

She added: "Although we are not a religious organisation, you can think of the
candle as being like a church candle.

"But the website makes it very accessible and we have recently had it revamped
so it looks fantastic."

The group is also holding a Time for Peace day on January 1.

There will be a candlelit vigil in The Circus from 7.50pm, with a two-minute
silence.

The silence will be a time to link with others around the world who are also
taking part in similar services.

Then Ms Davies, who is a community artist, will be leading a mime poem.

She said: "I would like to thank the Prinknash Benedictines, Genesis Lifestyle
Centre in Weston and the Fireside Rotisserie in Bath for their help in
sponsoring the event.

"Without their donations it could not go ahead.

"Depending on the response to the event, we will be holding similar vigils in
the new year."

Anyone is welcome to the vigil.

To light the candle visit www. timeforpeace. org.

LOAD-DATE: January 2, 2002

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                      Copyright 2001 Bristol United Press

                              247 of 251 DOCUMENTS

                            Derby Evening Telegraph

                               December 29, 2001

World left reeling by terror attacks

SECTION: GENERAL; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 24 words


BY far the biggest event of the year - one of the most tragic events ever to
take place in history - was the September 11 terrorist attacks.

LOAD-DATE: May 2, 2002

LANGUAGE: English

                     Copyright 2001 Derby Evening Telegraph

                              248 of 251 DOCUMENTS

                            Evening Times (Glasgow)

                               December 29, 2001

Year the world changed forever;2001: THE EVENTS THAT DOMINATED THE HEADLINES IN
THE YEAR THAT WILL FOREVER BE LINKED WITH TERRORISTS' ATTACK ON THE WORLD TRADE
CENTRE

SECTION: Pg. 8

LENGTH: 1801 words


IN 2001, the world was changed for ever by the most shattering event since the
Second World War. The terrorist attacks on the US dominated the news, in a year
which also saw Scotland elect its third First Minister, the devastating foot and
mouth outbreak, and the death of much-loved Beatle George Harrison. The Evening
Times was first to bring you many of the year's top stories. Ann Fotheringham
looks back at the events which hit the headlines.

JANUARY 11

DOCTORS at Glasgow's largest hospital, the Royal Infirmary, warned that
conditions had reached crisis point.

Senior consultants revealed the hospital's controlling trust had been dubbed the
Titanic - too big and sinking fast.

Doctors told the Evening Times lives were at risk through dirty

conditions, overworked staff,

outdated equipment, lack of

technology and remote

management.

Opposition parties demanded

an urgent investment to end the "Third World" conditions.

JANUARY 16

troubles continued for North Glasgow University Hospitals NHS Trust when bosses
were accused of playing politics with patients' lives.

The Evening Times revealed a letter stating doctors could be overruled if
waiting list guarantees couldn't be met.

Consultants were furious at the instruction, saying that if doctors followed the
ruling they could be in breach of General Medical Council guidelines to
safeguard patients.

One said: " We're being told we can't prioritise cases and we fear this could
endanger patients."

JANUARY 31

Libyan intelligence agent Abdelbaset Ali Mohmed

al- Megrahi was jailed life for the Lockerbie bombing, which killed 270 people.

Co-accused, Al Amin Khalifa Fhimah, was found not guilty.

Lockerbie campaigner Jim

Swire, whose daughter Flora was among the victims, collapsed in

the special court in Holland as

the verdicts were announced.

Britain and the US warned Libyan leader Colonel Gadaffi

that sanctions against his country wouldn't be lifted until he met all his
international obligations.

FEBRUARY 28

AT least 13 people died and 70 were injured - 30 seriously - in a devastating
rail crash.

A car plunged from a motorway near Selby in Yorkshire into the path of a high
-speed train carrying more than 100 passengers.

The passenger train was then struck by a freight service travelling at 75mph.

Dad-of-four Gary Hart was later found guilty of causing the deaths of 10 people
by dangerous driving.

Hart, who denied he had fallen asleep at the wheel, had been talking on the
telephone all night to a woman he met on the internet.

APRIL 13

Legendary Scots entertainer Jimmy Logan lost his battle with cancer and died at
the HCI

Hospital in Clydebank with wife Angela at his bedside.

Also with the 73-year-old were his sisters Annie and Heather.

Jimmy kept news of his illness

a secret until October, when he was inundated with cards and

flowers from all over the world.

Weeks before he died, stars held a spectacular show at Glasgow's Pavilion in his
honour, raising (pounds) 30,000 for the Evening Times Maggie's Centre appeal, of
which Jimmy was a great supporter.

JULY 19

Millionaire novelist Lord

Archer was jailed for four years after being found guilty of

perverting the course of justice

and perjury.

The Old Bailey jury returned unanimous guilty verdicts on two charges of perjury
and two more

of perverting the course of justice in Archer's 1987 libel case against the
Daily Star, which claimed he had slept with prostitute Monica Coghlan.

The Daily Star, which lost the earlier case, said immediately

that it would sue Archer for (pounds) 2.1million.

JUNE 25

Thousands mourned at the funeral of Cardinal Thomas Winning in Glasgow.

Roads were closed as 600

people, representing all parishes

in Glasgow's Archdiocese,

attended a Requiem Mass in St Andrew's Cathedral for the

76-year-old.

It was also broadcast to

mourners in the street outside

and relayed to six churches in

the Archdiocese.

The Mass was attended by church leaders, royalty,

dignitaries and politicians from around the world.

JUNE 8

Labour won a historic second term as the nation gave the Party an overwhelming
mandate to deliver in its next four years with a majority of 167.

Voter apathy was blamed for a substantially lower turnout of 59%.

Tory leader William Hague immediately announced he

would step down, swiftly followed by Raymond Robertson,

chairman of the Conservatives

in Scotland.

The premier then spoke of

the enormous 'honour' he felt in being granted a second

term.

MAY 18

Scotland lost another footballing great when Celtic legend Bobby Murdoch died of
a massive stroke.

Hundreds of mourners brought his home town of Rutherglen to a standstill as they
paid their last respects to the Lisbon Lion.

Other members of the famous 1967 team, which became the first British club to
win the European Cup, joined stars from the present Celtic squad and local
people for the service.

Lions' captain, Billy McNeill, said: "He will be missed by all of us not just
because he was a great footballer, he was a gentleman."

APRIL 20

More than 2000 mourners paid tribute to Rangers and Scotland legend Jim Baxter
at his funeral.

Fans, football stars and other celebrities crammed into Glasgow Cathedral, with
many more

outside listening via loudspeakers.

Baxter's family were joined by Rangers manager Dick Advocaat and famous names
such as John Greig, Sir Alex Ferguson, Denis Law, Billy McNeill and Kenny
Dalglish.

Baxter, who was 61, had fought through two liver transplants before losing his
battle against cancer.

AUGUST 7

Angry protesters battled with sheriff officers after a pre-dawn bid to end the
Govanhill Pool

sit-in.

The officers stormed into the pool just after 4.30am, sparking clashes which
caused traffic chaos on Glasgow's south side - and brought large numbers of
police to the scene.

When demonstrators, fighting to save the swimming pool from closure, tried to
force their way in to join colleagues said to be hiding inside, they were held
back by around 35 police officers.

SEPTEMBER 11

Suicide pilots brought the US to a standstill when hijacked

jets hit the World Trade Centre in New York and the Pentagon in Washington,
killing

thousands. In the next few hours, the world watched in shock as the full

horror unfolded. Osama bin Laden was identified

as being behind the attacks. President Bush said bin Laden, protected

by the Taliban regime in Afghanistan, could not "hide from the US"

and told troops to

be ready

to retaliate. Tony Blair said: "We're at war with

terrorism" and pledged that Britain would play its part

SEPTEMBER 12

RESCUE teams working in the carnage of the World Trade Centre defiantly raised
the Stars and Stripes from the rubble.

The rescuers were among thousands helping to find small numbers of survivors. It
emerged that the hijackers told passengers on the jets to phone their families
and tell them they were about to die.

The harrowing messages were broadcast around the world.

SEPTEMBER 14

More than one billion people across the world joined in a three-minute silent
tribute to mourn the victims of the terrorist attacks in America.

At the stroke of 11am, people in factories and offices all over Britain stopped
work, no sales were made in shops, court cases were halted, pubs delayed opening
and people stood still in city centres.

The Queen and Tony Blair also took part in the unprecedented gesture.

Around 1500 people gathered in George Square, Glasgow, for the three-minute
silence, which followed a short

service.

Flags on all the buildings round the square, which was draped in black banners,
flew at half-mast.

Construction workers lined the roof of the former Post Office building and staff
in offices around the square stood

at windows as an American Airlines crew carrying a US flag were piped to the
front of the stage, where they lined

up opposite Strathclyde Police officers carrying a dipped Stars and Stripes.

A crew of Strathclyde firefighters stood in memory of their hundreds of New York
comrades who died in the

aftermath of the terrorist hijackings.

OCTOBER 8

After weeks of speculation, the war against terrorism began.

A cruise missile was launched from the USS Philippine Sea in one of the first
attacks against Osama bin Laden's terror camps inside Afghanistan.

The US had given its Nato allies "clear and compelling evidence" that pointed to
involvement of bin Laden and his Al-Qaida network in September's attacks.

NOVEMBER 8

Henry McLeish sensationally quit as First Minister over the "Officegate"
scandal.

Mr McLeish told MSPs: "I

recognise the mistakes I have made. I take full responsibility."

After weeks of pressure, Mr McLeish said he "deeply regretted" his mistake of
failing to register the sub-letting of part of his constituency office.

The expenses row first emerged in April after reports that law firm Digby Brown
had paid Mr McLeish (pounds) 4000-a-year since 1998 for sub-letting part of the
office.

NOVEMBER 30

Former Beatle George Harrison died in his wife's arms after a

long battle with cancer.

The 58-year-old, who had throat, lung and brain tumours, died at a friend's home
in Los Angeles.

As tributes poured in from around the world, former band mate Sir Paul McCartney
said: "I've lost my baby brother."

The news was broken by

friend Gavin De Becker, who

said: "George died with one thought in mind - love one

another."

Harrison's wife Olivia and son Dhani, 24, were with him.

DECEMBER 6

The entire future of the under-fire North Glasgow NHS Trust was in doubt after
control of the Beatson cancer unit was removed from its hands.

New Health Minister Malcolm Chisholm acted swiftly after a visit to the crisis
-hit centre

and appointed troubleshooter

Dr Adam Bryson to manage the unit. It was a huge slap in the face to Trust chief
executive Maggie Boyle, whose future was in doubt.

Plans for the new replacement Beatson unit at Gartnavel were also to be speeded
up.

DECEMBER 27

The Evening Times Maggie's Centre Appeal smashed through the half a million
pounds target we set on March 7.

Every penny of the (pounds) 515,200 raised by our readers can now go straight
into transforming the derelict Gatehouse building at the entrance to the Western
Infirmary into the city's first dedicated and free cancer care and advice
centre.

Readers came up with thousands of ways to raise money, from head-shaving to
trekking across some of the world's most difficult terrain. The new centre is
scheduled to open in June.

LOAD-DATE: December 31, 2001

LANGUAGE: English

GRAPHIC: no caption

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                Copyright 2001 Scottish Media Newspapers Limited

                              249 of 251 DOCUMENTS

                                 Sunday Express

                               December 30, 2001

NEWS REVIEW 2001 ITN NEWSREADER KATIE DERHAM LOOKS BACK AT THE EVENTS THAT WILL
REMAIN IN OUR MEMORIES OF 2001, DOMINATED BY THE HORROR OF THE SEPTEMBER
TERRORIST ATTACKS ON NEW YORK; THE IMAGES THE WORLD WILL NEVER FORGET

SECTION: FEATURES; Pg.  51

LENGTH: 2147 words


THIS YEAR, 2001, has produced some of the most extraordinary news images: the
devastation of the Gujarat earthquake; the horror of the burning foot-and-mouth
carcasses; an electioneering Prime Minister harangued live on television; his
deputy thumping another protester. But they all seem like nothing compared with
the one image with which we will all be horribly familiar.

It's an image that will define not just this year or even this decade but
possibly the coming century. An image that, because of the advances in
technology and the fact that it happened in the most media-advanced city in the
world, many of us watched - horrified, disbelieving, and shocked - live on
television.

The World Trade Center attacks will doubtless become one of the defining moments
for my generation if not many others. The question asked of my parents - "Where
were you when you heard John Kennedy was shot?" - now has a 21st-century
counterpart.

I was probably aware more quickly than most, being on shift in the ITV newsroom
and watching transfixed within minutes of the first plane hitting the first
tower.

At first we thought it was a horrible accident - this was just weeks after a
parachutist got caught tangled in the Statue of Liberty and his rescue was
screened live to a worldwide audience.

When the second tower was hit, I remember the first theory broadcast by the
American stations was that this was a TV helicopter filming the first accident,
and somehow repeating the very event it was filming.

But it quickly transpired that this was something completely different.

Being a journalist at such times allows you an element of professional distance
- we watched the unfolding events as shocked viewers with half an eye, the other
half worrying about the logistics. How quickly do we run a newsflash? When can
we get live pictures from the scene? At what stage do we go on air continuously?

My newsreading colleague, Kirsty Young, had all these concerns and one more: her
husband, Nick Jones, was in New York that morning. She rushed into ITN's
headquarters and only heard that Nick was safe as she was about to go on air.
She did a marvellous job, and was calm as she interviewed him as an early
witness to the events unfolding that morning.

This was just the first of many times in the next few months when there was a
personal connection to the world events in the US and Afghanistan. At the end of
November, I had the strange experience of having to read an announcement about a
friend and colleague, Andrea Catherwood, who'd been injured while covering the
war. Andrea was hit by shrapnel in Mazari-Sharif when a Taliban prisoner blew
himself up with a grenade about 10 yards from where she was standing.

Luckily, Andrea was quickly treated and is now recovering from a shrapnel wound
in her leg - but it shows how dangerous the assignment is.

Andrea said that adrenaline kicked in and she managed to file her report before
getting any medical assistance. At one stage, more journalists had been killed
in Afghanistan than British and American soldiers. It's at times like this that
admiration for colleagues in the field is rather uncomfortably mixed with relief
that my duties in these months have been firmly behind the newsreader's desk in
London.

Of course, these appalling events have made all of us value our loved ones even
more. Having my little girl Natasha, now a cheerful and noisy 20 months old, has
put a smile on my face after hours of looking at pictures of unrelenting
grimness.

BUT IT hasn't all been bad news this year.

Back in March, I reported from Los Angeles about the Oscar triumphs of Russell
Crowe and Julia Roberts, two favourites of mine.

Unfortunately, the wonderful British film Billy Elliot was overlooked.
Film-makers always say the achievement is in the nomination, but I'm always left
disappointed, if not particularly surprised, when huge Hollywood names are those
that are read out on the night. Billy Elliot was one of those great British film
industry stories, and it was lovely that an unknown actor, Jamie Bell, was in
line for an Oscar. He wasn't actually nominated for an award but to see him at
the Academy Awards in his dinner suit, which was a few sizes too big for him,
hobnobbing with Puff Daddy, was great.

I was also reporting at the opening of Cannes for the screening of the film that
could be next year's big Oscar winner - Moulin Rouge, starring the all-singing,
all-dancing Nicole Kidman and Ewan McGregor. It's fantastic, lavish stuff and
the PR supremos from Twentieth Century Fox missed nothing with the Cannes
opening, with dozens of cancan dancers on the Croisette's red-carpet. They
repeated it all over again months later for the British opening, with Prince
Charles added to the headline-grabbing mix.

Nicole Kidman herself is a revelation as a singer - I'm already a great fan of
her acting - but she's now added to her musical achievements with her Christmas
chart-topping duet with Robbie Williams on Somethin' Stupid. She's my early tip
for the Academy Awards, as her performances in Moulin Rouge and The Others have
been favoured by critics.

AFTER Cannes in May, I returned to elaborate plans for my role in ITV's general
election night coverage. My programme editor had devised a complicated and
highly ambitious brief for me: to start at one end of the country at the
beginning of the night's coverage (just after polls closed) and make my way -
via several key constituencies and counts - to the studio in London before the
final results were due.

It became a huge challenge of logistics and great fun.

We started with a live broadcast from Edinburgh at 10.15pm, talking to Jonathan
Dimbleby, and then leaping into a small jet for a 50-minute trip to Manchester.
After landing, it was into a high-speed taxi with my camera crew to get the
count, and a breathless interview before taking another cab to a helicopter.

Next stop was Birmingham and a prearranged date with actor Sam West, then to
London.

Somewhere along the line, the careful planning went awry, and the original plane
we'd chartered for the first leg of our whistlestop tour broke down. Can a
millionpound executive jet break down? And what do you when you're in a huge
rush and it does indeed go kaput? Call the AA? Perhaps not, but we could call in
the help of ITN's travel supremo, Paul Rudd. He's more used to getting people
into places that other more sane people are trying to get out of - but if you
need to get from Edinburgh to London via Manchester and Birmingham, he's your
man. A hastily hired replacement jet appeared just in time in Edinburgh, and a
few hours later I made it into our studio in London for a quick appearance - and
a new nickname: the Penelope Pitstop of ITN!

We didn't actually come across any major shocks during the general election. One
of the things that hit us was the underwhelming atmosphere, even among the party
faithful. The theme of the election seemed to be that people, especially young
people, weren't excited by it. There wasn't much drama because everyone expected
a landslide result, which is what happened.

After that, the news came thick and fast until the world suddenly stood still on
September 11. There was the Queen Mum's 101st birthday in August, which was also
the month of major Burnley riots. I had been on duty the night rioting kicked
off there in June, and it was hard to believe what was happening. Clearly, a lot
of work has to be done to ease racial tensions in Britain.

Then there were the anarchist protests in Turin and Oxford Street in July, Mount
Etna erupting in Sicily that same month, and those shots of refugees smuggling
themselves on to Eurostar trains at Sangatte in August.

The Holy Cross School protests in Belfast, which began in September, were
particularly shocking. My little one, Natasha, isn't big enough to go to school,
but the thought of having to take her through a crowd of screaming adults and
armed soldiers is awful. But, bless them, the children always seemed to be
singing.

And then there was September 11. The attacks seemed all the more horrific for
their timing. The terrorists carefully planned that the crashes coincided with
the much-viewed breakfast shows in the US. And because of the time lapse between
the first plane crashing into the first tower and the subsequent crashes, many
people watched live on TV as the second tower was targeted - and then both
towers collapsed 40 minutes later. The timing seemed to show an unnerving degree
of media awareness, repeated later by Al Qaeda's use of video appeals by Osama
Bin Laden. The speed and timing was like that of a slick PR firm, yet it was the
work of fighters living in a medieval society where television was banned.

The news was happening so fast that afternoon it seems to have merged into a
blur of headlines - the first attack, then the second, reports of the Pentagon
being hit, and then a crash into a field somewhere in Pennsylvania, later
revealed to be near the presidential retreat of Camp David.

A lot has been written about that day, but one common thought of both
journalists and non-journalists is that it seemed unreal, and yet there was the
awful knowledge that this was reality. Indeed, no one would dare make it up. It
became trite to say "this is just like a Hollywood movie" but the truth is that
no scriptwriter would be able to get an audience to suspend belief for such a
tale. The events of September 11 had a huge impact on Hollywood, and many new
films had to be pulled from cinema release or redone. Indeed, the mega-budget
Spiderman was rumoured to climax in a scene where the superhero catches the
villain in a giant web woven between the Twin Towers. And the portrait of a
postapocalyptic New York in Artificial Intelligence must make director Steven
Spielberg wince now. But just two months after the attacks, Spielberg's
Dreamworks was roped in by the US government, as a presidential envoy was sent
to Los Angeles to meet producers and writers and talk about their "crucial" role
in the war effort.

I was on air when the bombs started falling on Afghanistan. Obviously, this
story has dominated the news over the past three months and the challenge has
been trying to bring in the major stories, which can be so complex. It's
fascinating but extremely challenging.

There was other news in the last months of the year, including the Sarah Payne
trial, where your heart went out to the parents in court having to hear the
awful evidence every day. There was also the return of Concorde in November
after 16 months out of service since the Paris crash - welcome news for a hugely
damaged airline industry - and on a lighter note, the conquering of
international cinema box offices by a single mum from Edinburgh. JK Rowling is
now one of Britain's richest women, and no one would begrudge her, it would
seem. I look forward to reading Harry Potter to Natasha in a few years' time.

ONE moment from the autumn stands out in slow-mo - the heart-stopping moment in
October when England football captain David Beckham stepped up to take the
last-minute free kick against Greece to level the scores at 2-2. I love a big
football match but this was pure Roy of the Rovers stuff. Beckham seemed to have
finally lived down his infamy of France 98 and became the unchallenged national
hero. And that it was such a crucial match, with a place in the World Cup finals
at stake, just added to the countrywide euphoria.

The same week in December as the Sarah Payne case came to a conclusion, so did
two other big trials: the Selby disaster and that of the Leeds United
footballers. What really struck me about the Selby case was that Gary Hart must
have thought of himself as the victim of a terrible accident. The last thing he
thought would come of it was a prison sentence, but the jury thought he was
driving dangerously and caused the deaths of 10 people.

At the end of the year, I had the opportunity to meet one of the few women to
outrank JK on the rich list when the Queen and Prince Philip visited ITN as part
of a tour of British television. My duty that day was to show the Duke of
Edinburgh some of the technical wizardry behind the scenes of TV news, with my
newsreading colleague Mary Nightingale. I suspect he knew more than we did! He
seemed particularly taken with the graphics the ITN team had created of Windsor
Castle for the last royal wedding - although he did point out a few mistakes
that only a royal resident could possibly spot.

And so the year ends in a way no one would ever have anticipated. As
Afghanistan's post-Taliban future is shaped, and the war on terrorism continues,
the century is being shaped in an unbelievably dramatic way. I feel privileged
as a news reporter to have been involved with history's first draft.

LOAD-DATE: January 7, 2002

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Newspaper

                       Copyright 2001 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS

                              250 of 251 DOCUMENTS

                            Daily Post (North Wales)

                           December 31, 2001, Monday

GANG IN TERROR SEX ATTACK

BYLINE: Rachel Newton

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 254 words


A WOMAN was subjected to a terrifying sex attack after a four-strong gang
tricked their way into her Cheshire home.

It is understood that at least two of the intruders took part in the assault,
which detectives last night described as "appalling".

The victim was alone in her home in the Bewsey area of Warrington when she
answered a knock at her front door and was confronted by the gang.

They claimed to be friends of a member of her family.

Det Sgt Peter Cash, of Warrington CID, said: "This was an appalling attack.

"The victim was subjected to a serious sexual assault in her own home, the one
place everyone assumes to be a safe environment."

Det Sgt Cash said the victim was extremely traumatised and had yet to give full
details of her ordeal, which took place between 10pm and midnight on Thursday.

He added: "This began as an apparently innocent visit to the victim's house. The
men were not known to the victim but asked to see a member of her family who
does not live at that address. She had no reason to suspect they were lying and
allowed them inside.

"The men spent several hours in the house, during which time the atmosphere
gradually changed from friendly to threatening.

"Following the assault the victim was deeply traumatised and did not notify
police or go to the hospital until the following day."

All the men were white, aged in their 20s and were dressed in casual clothing.

Anyone with information should contact the CID at Warrington on 01244 613845.

LOAD-DATE: December 31, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

               Copyright 2001 The Liverpool Daily Post & Echo Ltd

                              251 of 251 DOCUMENTS

                          THE JOURNAL (Newcastle, UK)

                      December 31, 2001, Monday Edition 1

Boss to tell story of terror attacks

BYLINE: By The Journal

SECTION: NEWS, Pg. 16

LENGTH: 312 words


   .




The chief executive of a firm which lost more than 600 of its 1,000 workers in
the collapse of the World Trade Centre is to write a book about the ordeal.

Cantor Fitzgerald suffered the greatest loss of life in the September 11 attacks
as its staff were concentrated in the upper floors of the first tower to be hit.

Chief executive Howard Lutnick cheated death because he decided to take his son
to school and arrived late at the office that morning.

Now he is to write a book about the firm's struggle to keep going as a bond
trading house and deal with the grief which engulfed it.

Mr Lutnick, whose brother Gary worked beside him and was killed in the attacks,
is to donate his share of the royalties to the families of the staff killed.

"I think it is an incredible story," he said.

"I think it is really important that I get to tell it. It will stand as a
testament to my friends and partners who I lost on the 11th of September."

Co-writer Thomas Barbash has interviewed the families of the victims and the
survivors of the attacks and the book will also feature their stories.

"We will weave together things I want to say in my voice and things that need to
be said in all sorts of voices," said Mr Lutnick.

Mr Lutnick was known as one of Wall Street's toughest bosses before the attacks
but broke down repeatedly in the aftermath as he pledged to do all he could to
help the families of the dead workers.

He asked survivors to vote on whether to keep the firm alive after the attacks
and pledged to donate 25pc of its profits over the next five years to a fund in
memory of the dead.

Families have also been given the healthcare benefits they enjoyed before they
lost their loved ones in the attack and have already been paid more than 30m in
bonuses the dead would have been due.

LOAD-DATE: January 8, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                Copyright 2001 Newcastle Chronicle & Journal Ltd



---- End of Request ----
Download Request: Select Items: 1501 - 1751
Time Of Request: Wednesday, February 21, 2018  22:15:59

