



Download Request: Select Items: 1501 - 1831
Time Of Request: Wednesday, February 21, 2018  23:01:58
Send To:







Terms: terror!


Source: UK Publications
Project ID: None



                               1 of 331 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                      September 9, 2011 Friday 6:05 PM GMT

Rugby World Cup 2011: United States scrum-half Mike Petri will fly the flag for
9/11 victims;
Like most people, Mike Petri remembers exactly where he was and what he was
doing when the terrorist attack on the Twin Towers of the World Trade Center in
New York on Sept 11 2001 stopped the world in its tracks.

BYLINE: By Brendan Gallagher in Auckland

LENGTH: 828 words


A 17-year-old schoolboy at the time Petri, now the United States scrum-half, was
in the library at Xavier High School in New York enjoying a free period when the
tannoy system crackled into life ordering everybody who was not in class to make
their way immediately to the gymnasium.

There was an urgency in the metallic voice that squashed any thoughts that it
was a routine security exercise that could be treated lightly.

There, among the medicine balls and gym mats, Petri and his mates were informed
that New York was under attack, a plane had flown into one of the Twin Towers
and the headmaster had decided to "lock down" the school. Nobody was going in or
out. The USA was effectively at war.

Yet 36 hours later the muscular young Petri was delivering heavy oxygen and
cutting equipment to a smouldering Ground Zero and generally making himself
useful with his father, a plumber by trade, as the desperate and largely forlorn
search for survivors continued .

It was a sight that haunts Petri junior to this day although he will tell you
that the courage and selfless teamwork he saw on display from the emergency
services remains his biggest inspiration, in life and sport.

It will all come flooding back again tomorrow although in truth the images and
the stench of death and despair from Ground Zero are never far away, bubbling
away in his subconscious.

A New Yorker to the core, he and his team-mates will attend a commemorative
service at St Andrew's Church in New Plymouth in the morning and, after drying
his eyes, Petri, will reach for his kitbag and head for the Taranki Stadium
where Ireland await.

Frankly the USA have almost no chance but that will not stop the Eagles trying
to produce the performance of their lives.

"I can relive that day like it was yesterday," says Petri, who now plays for
Newport Gwent Dragons after a spell with Sale.

"We were living in Brooklyn and the school is in Lower Manhattan so I took the
subway every morning and then walked a few blocks to school passing through
Fifth Avenue. And there they were every morning, those two huge Towers
dominating the scene, ruling over New York like they always did. You just took
it for granted.

"And it was just the same that morning on September 11 on my way to school, a
beautiful morning as I recall, except when we were finally allowed to make our
journeys home that evening in the dust and eerie silence they had just vanished.

Gone. The world wasn't the same anymore.

"It was a scary and distressing day at school. My class was absolutely full of
pupils who either had parents working in the Twin Towers or fathers in the
emergency services and they were frantic with worry and trying to get news.

There was a mad rush for the phones but a lot of the networks were down and
there was no definite news on loved ones anyway.

Some of my best friends' fathers were killed that day, I was very lucky I had a
family still to go home to. In fact I was one of the few members of my class
whose family was untouched by the terrorist attack.

"Back at the school the teachers wouldn't put the TVs on so we hadn't seen what
happened, the second attack and the Towers collapsing, we were just hearing
second-hand reports. It was a war situation really, that's what it felt like and
nobody knew what was happening. Our safety was the first priority.

"That evening we were eventually cleared to go home and I made my way through
the subway and I have never seen scenes like it. There was nobody in the streets
but the tube stations were rammed, it was wall-to-wall people and you had to
queue for half an hour even to get down the stairs. Everybody was in a state of
shock, almost nobody was talking.

"It was only when I got home and saw the news on the TV that I appreciated
exactly what had happened. Then came the call for dad to get his equipment down
to Ground Zero, anything and everything was needed, and suddenly I was right
there with him standing exactly where the Towers used to be.

"Unreal. It was completely overwhelming, a horrible, horrible chapter in our
nation's history but the memory that still comes through strongest of all is the
courage of those emergency services and that tangible feeling of everybody in
New York coming together in a crisis.

"It's 10 years on now and I can't think of a much better way than to mark such a
sad day than being given the privilege of pulling on that Eagles jersey and
wearing the national colours in a big World Cup rugby match. We will all try and
make it special in our way.

"We know what a massive task it is for us to take on a first tier rugby nation
like Ireland and how the odds are always stacked high against us but we will
play with immense pride and my hope is that somehow we can find something extra
on this of all days."

The Stars and Stripes will belt out, followed by a minute's silence. Petri will
bow his head and remember. And then he will hold his head high.

Life goes on, even if it will never be quite the same.

LOAD-DATE: January 20, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTNS


                  Copyright 2011 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               2 of 331 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                      September 9, 2011 Friday 3:54 PM GMT

September 11 survivor Seth Bauer returns to Ground Zero ten years on;
A decade after the 9/11 terror attacks in New York, The Telegraph joins survivor
Seth Bauer at Ground Zero to retrace his steps on that fateful day.

BYLINE: Series filmed and edited by Pete Fergusson. Series produced by Melissa
Whitworth

LENGTH: 56 words


Like thousands of New Yorkers on the morning of September 11 2001, Seth Bauer
was travelling on the subway to work.

He emerged from the underground train just before the collapse of the World
Trade Center towers.

Reliving the events ten years on, he recalls how he crawled over bodies as he
gasped for air amid the chaos that followed.

LOAD-DATE: January 20, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTNS


                  Copyright 2011 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               3 of 331 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                      September 9, 2011 Friday 3:43 PM GMT

Bono says he'll be a proud American on 9/11;
U2 singer Bono will be in New York on tenth anniversary of the September 11
terror attacks.

LENGTH: 344 words


READ NEIL McCORMICK'S BLOG: WHEN DID BONO BECOME AMERICAN

Bono, appearing for the gala opening of the Toronto International Film Festival,
declared that he's "a very proud American on 9/11".

A documentary on Irish rock band U2's rise to stardom opened the Canadian event
and comes two day's before the anniversary of the September 11 terror attacks.
Bono said: "It's just too big a moment in all our lives. Even if you're not
American, everyone became an American that day."

The Irish-born singer will be in New York on Sunday with his wife Ali Hewson for
a fashion event promoting a men's collection for their EDUN line. The couple
launched the not-for-profit fashion company in 2005 to raise awareness for
business opportunities in Africa.

He was in Toronto along with U2 guitarist The Edge for the premiere of the U2
documentary From the Sky Down, which chronicles the band's recording of their
1991 album Achtung Baby. From the Sky Down was directed by Davis Guggenheim and
it's the first time a documentary has kicked off the festival, which runs until
September 18. The festival showcases 268 feature films and 68 shorts, including
123 world premieres.

Festival documentary programmer Thom Powers said: "The documentary allowed the
bands to be reflective on difficult periods in their careers in a meaningful
way. With hindsight, looking back 20 years, people are more candid and willing
to talk about the troubled times and the good times. And that's certainly the
case in From The Sky Down."

In the movie, band mates are "talking about a period when they nearly broke up,"
he explained. "It was very difficult and when you're going through it you don't
have perspective."

Guggenheim, who worked with The Edge in his 2008 documentary It Might Get Loud,
used outtakes from a previous U2 documentary Rattle and Hum.

Follow Telegraph Music on Twitter

LOAD-DATE: January 20, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTNS


                  Copyright 2011 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               4 of 331 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                      September 9, 2011 Friday 1:54 PM GMT

September 11 anniversary: how America's worst terrorist attack unfolded;
The story of how the events of 9/11 unfolded in the 102 minutes that followed
the attack on the World Trade Center.

LENGTH: 169 words


From the moment the first plane hit the World Trade Center at 8.46am on
September 11, 2001 to the collapse of the second tower 102 minutes later, the
shocking day is seared into the memories of those who lived through it and much
of it was captured on film.

George W Bush's inertia to news of the attack was witnessed as he sat in a
classroom in Florida, meanwhile millions watched Flight 175 crash into the South
Tower live on television.

A security camera at the Pentagon caught the jerky approach of Flight 77 as it
headed for the building before the ghostly imprint of United Flight 93 is
revealed in a field south east of Pittsburgh.

The world was left reeling when the second WTC tower collapsed at 10.28am.

Ten years on, memorials to the 2,752 victims of al-Qaeda's attacks are still
being erected around the world as countries prepare to pause and remember the
events of that day.

Watch videos taken on the day and interviews with eyewitnesses caught up in the
disaster

LOAD-DATE: January 20, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTNS


                  Copyright 2011 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               5 of 331 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                     September 9, 2011 Friday 12:36 PM GMT

Bono says he'll be a proud American on 9/11;
U2 singer Bono will be in New York on tenth anniversary of the September 11
terror attacks.

LENGTH: 320 words


Bono, appearing for the gala opening of the Toronto International Film Festival,
declared that he's "a very proud American on 9/11".

A documentary on Irish rock band U2's rise to stardom opened the Canadian event
and comes two day's before the anniversary of the September 11 terror attacks.
Bono said: "It's just too big a moment in all our lives. Even if you're not
American, everyone became an American that day."

The Irish-born singer will be in New York on Sunday with his wife Ali Hewson for
a fashion event promoting a men's collection for their EDUN line. The couple
launched the not-for-profit fashion company in 2005 to raise awareness for
business opportunities in Africa.

He was in Toronto along with U2 guitarist The Edge for the premiere of the U2
documentary From the Sky Down, which chronicles the band's recording of their
1991 album Achtung Baby. From the Sky Down was directed by Davis Guggenheim and
it's the first time a documentary has kicked off the festival, which runs until
September 18. The festival showcases 268 feature films and 68 shorts, including
123 world premieres.

Festival documentary programmer Thom Powers said: "The documentary allowed the
bands to be reflective on difficult periods in their careers in a meaningful
way. With hindsight, looking back 20 years, people are more candid and willing
to talk about the troubled times and the good times. And that's certainly the
case in From The Sky Down."

In the movie, band mates are "talking about a period when they nearly broke up,"
he explained. "It was very difficult and when you're going through it you don't
have perspective."

Guggenheim, who worked with The Edge in his 2008 documentary It Might Get Loud,
used outtakes from a previous U2 documentary Rattle and Hum.

Follow Telegraph Music on Twitter

LOAD-DATE: January 20, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTNS


                  Copyright 2011 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               6 of 331 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                     September 9, 2011 Friday 10:43 AM GMT

September 11 anniversary: How America's worst terrorist attack unfolded;
The story of how the events of 9/11 unfolded in the 102 minutes that followed
the attack on the World Trade Center.

LENGTH: 169 words


From the moment the first plane hit the World Trade Center at 8.46am on
September 11, 2001 to the collpase of the second tower 102 minutes later, the
shocking day is seared into the memories of those who lived through it and much
of it was captured on film.

George W Bush's inertia to news of the attack was witnessed as he sat in a
classroom in Florida, meanwhile millions watched Flight 175 crash into the South
Tower live on television.

A security camera at the Pentagon caught the jerky approach of Flight 77 as it
headed for the building before the ghostly imprint of United Flight 93 is
revealed in a field south east of Pittsburgh.

The world was left reeling when the second WTC tower collapsed at 10.28am.

Ten years on, memorials to the 2,752 victims of al-Qaeda's attacks are still
being erected around the world as countries prepare to pause and remember the
events of that day.

Watch videos taken on the day and interviews with eyewitnesses caught up in the
disaster

LOAD-DATE: January 20, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTNS


                  Copyright 2011 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               7 of 331 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                     September 9, 2011 Friday 10:19 AM GMT

September 11 anniversary: How America's worst terrorist attack unfolded;
The story of how the events of 9/11 unfolded in the 102 minutes that followed
the attack on the World Trade Center.

LENGTH: 127 words


From the moment the first plane hit the World Trade Center on September 11, 2001
to the collpase of the second tower102 minutes later, the shocking day is seared
into the memories of those who lived through it and much of it was captured on
film.

George W Bush's startled reaction to news of the attack, delivered while he was
sitting in a classroom of children, is followed by the sight of the second plane
hitting the South Tower.

A security camera at the Pentagon catches the jerky approach of Flight 77 as it
slams into the building before the ghostly imprint of United Flight 93 is
revealed in a field south east of Pittsburgh.

Watch videos taken on the day and interviews with eyewitnesses caught up in the
disaster

LOAD-DATE: January 20, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTNS


                  Copyright 2011 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               8 of 331 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring Middle East - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                          September 10, 2011 Saturday

UAE minister says world "more united" against terror after 9/11 attacks

LENGTH: 1079 words


Text of report in English by Dubai newspaper Gulf News website on 8 September

[Commentary by UAE Foreign Minister Shaykh Abdallah Bin-Zayid Al Nahyan : "Ten
Years On: A World United Against Terrorism." - For assistance with multimedia
elements]

UAE Foreign Minister Shaykh Abdallah Bin-Zayid Al Nuhayyan

Ten years ago, the world united in horror at the attacks perpetrated in the
United States on September 11, 2001. In that moment, geographical distance
vanished and differences in culture or political systems faded away in our
common grief. The images the world witnessed on that day instantly impressed on
us all that this was not just an act of terrorism against a sovereign nation: it
was an attack on the universal values upheld by the global community.

In the decade since 2001 we have seen nationals from dozens of countries drawn
towards violent extremism - including our own. What this has made clear is that
religion, race, political system or economic background neither predispose
individuals to carrying out acts of terror nor preclude them from doing so.
Today, all countries share the concern that their citizens could become either
the victims or the perpetrators of acts of terror.

In the aftermath of 9/11 the international community came together under the
principle that terrorism strikes at the heart of everything that we stand for.
Countries of this region joined those of Asia, Africa, Europe, Australasia and
the Americas in the recognition that a truly concerted international effort was
required to combat terrorism in all its manifestations.

In 2001 the UAE joined this global effort by being one of some 60 countries
involved in the international operation in Afghanistan. The UAE's contribution
was multifaceted: providing military assets on the ground to promote peace and
security, but also extensive aid and educational projects to assist the
emergence of the Afghan people from decades of war and insecurity.

In this effort, the UAE stood alongside a number of Arab and Muslim nations -
demonstrating to the world that this was not a conflict between religions or
civilisations, but an international effort united behind a humanitarian and
political cause: to defeat violent extremism in all forms and under any
ideological banner.

Global Mission

A decade into the 21st century, it is imperative that we continue our
comprehensive global mission to eradicate terrorism and violent extremism in the
world. These effective counter-terrorism strategies must begin with robust
security measures, effective information sharing to break up terrorist groups
and prevent their operations, and the full use of relevant international legal
conventions and instruments. But as members of the international community, a
global response to counter the conditions conducive to terrorism will require
even more.

First, the alleviation of global poverty must remain a priority. Individuals
deprived of livelihoods and hope cannot become stakeholders in their societies.
For its part, the UAE has delivered a vast programme of international aid
assistance to improve economic conditions for populations in need - contributing
more than Dh34 billion in development projects to a range of countries worldwide
in the decade since 2001. This year alone the UAE has made significant
contributions to emergency relief programmes targeting affected populations in
vulnerable areas such as Afghanistan, Yemen, Somalia and in sub-Saharan Africa.

But economic development alone will not secure the world from the threat of
terrorism. The second core area must be our international political effort to
further the principles of justice and international law, and enshrine respect
for human rights. In doing so, we will remove grievances that are skilfully
exploited by terrorists, further demonstrating the emptiness of their violent
ideologies.

The UAE has therefore been consistent in its call for an equitable and
comprehensive peace for the Palestinian people, in the belief that a lasting
solution would be game-changing in undermining the rhetoric of global terrorism,
particularly in our region where the issue is used as a rallying cry for
terrorist recruitment.

Similarly, the UAE has consistently opposed efforts to divide people on the
basis of religion or sect. We have actively supporte d national unity and
sovereignty from Iraq to Yemen. During the events of the 'Arab Spring' the UAE
has been consistent in its support of peaceful engagement and constructive
dialogue as the means towards progressive change. And in Libya, the UAE
supported international efforts against the Gaddafi regime on the humanitarian
premise that governments must protect and serve their citizens in order to
legitimately govern.

At the centre of the international community's counter-terrorism strategy we
must present an alternative vision for the future: one that supports a culture
of peace and tolerance. The UAE works in support of these values at home. We
abide by a framework that is Islamic and open to and respectful of other
religions. We believe that it is right that we as Muslims are the first and most
vociferous in condemning the violent acts and extremist ideology of terrorists
who try to misuse our faith for their horrific and irreligious ends.

Opening Doors

Education is at the heart of this vision, and the active advance of
inter-cultural understanding will be required by all sides. In the UAE, for
example, by 2014, we will have opened the doors to local branches of the Louvre,
the Guggenheim, New York University and the Sorbonne. Such increases in
exchanges between cultures could be the UAE's most enduring response to the
vision propagated by extremists and their followers.

Nevertheless, even as we look ahead today at how to meet the challenges of the
future, our thoughts must remain with the victims of the attacks one decade ago,
and with their families. This time for solemn reflection presents an opportunity
for states to renew their mission to eradicate terrorism in all its forms. Each
of us must bravely and resolutely, in our own corners of the world, face our
demons as nations, peoples, and individuals in order to overcome the challenges
that still lie ahead.

There is no better way to honour the victims of 9/11 than by spreading this
message of hope. As the world is once more united today in remembrance, we
should remain confident that our shared vision of a peaceful future will
prevail.

Source: Gulf News website, Dubai, in English 8 Sep 11

LOAD-DATE: September 10, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2011 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                               9 of 331 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring Middle East - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                          September 10, 2011 Saturday

Armed "terrorist" group attacks law enforcers in Syria

LENGTH: 125 words


Text of report in English by state-run Syrian news agency SANA website

["Armed Terrorist Group Opens Fire on Law-Enforcement Personnel in Damascus
Countryside" - SANA Headline]

DAMASCUS COUNTRYSIDE, (SANA) -An armed terrorist group on Friday night opened
fire on law-enforcement personnel in Kifr Batna area in Damascus Countryside.

Several personnel were injured while responding to the armed group and 3
terrorists were killed

The rest of the gang members were detained and the weapons they had were
confiscated.

The gang had military uniforms, which they apparently wore while committing
their crimes, filming themselves to tarnish the image of the manners of the army
and the security forces.

Source: SANA news agency website, Damascus in English 10 Sep 11

LOAD-DATE: September 10, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2011 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              10 of 331 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring South Asia - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                          September 10, 2011 Saturday

Four "terrorists" arrested for role in attack on police in northwest Pakistan

LENGTH: 217 words


Text of report headlined "Four 'terrorists' held in Peshawar" published by
Pakistani newspaper The News website on 10 September

Peshawar: The police on Friday [9 September] arrested four alleged terrorists
involved in attack on police party and also thwarted a terror bid and defused 15
kilograms of explosives on the Grand Trunk Road.

Fear and tension prevailed all over Peshawar after several roads in front of
sensitive buildings were closed in Saddar, city and other area after spy
agencies reports that terrorists may target the provincial capital.

The bomb disposal unit on information rushed to the site on Grand Trunk Road and
defused 15 kilograms of explosives concealed in a fire extinguisher. Meanwhile,
the cops in Agha Mir Jani Shah area arrested four suspected terrorists involved
in attack on police party. They were identified as Moazzam Khan, Ibrar, Shahid
and Mustafa Khan.

Spokesman for the city police, Jalaluddin, said that 26 other proclaimed
offenders were also arrested during different raids in parts of the provincial
capital. There are reports that terrorists may strike in Peshawar and other
parts of Khyber Pakhtunkhwa and Fata on the 10th anniversary of the 9/11 due to
which high level alert has been ordered in the city.

Source: The News website, Islamabad, in English 10 Sep 11

LOAD-DATE: September 10, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2011 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              11 of 331 DOCUMENTS


                    BBC Monitoring Asia Pacific - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                          September 10, 2011 Saturday

China analyst says "nearly impossible" for terror attacks on 9/11 scale to recur

LENGTH: 717 words


The 9 September 2011 edition of CCTV-4 "Focus Today" [Jin Ri Guan Zhu], a
30-minute current affairs program broadcast daily at 1330-1400 GMT, features a
discussion on the 10th anniversary of the "9-11 terrorist attacks."

The program is hosted by Lu Jian and attended by Qu Xing, CCTV contributing
commentator and president of the China Institute of International Studies and Li
Shaoxian, CCTV contributing commentator and deputy director of the China
Institute for Contemporary International Relations.

The host begins the program by briefly commenting on the tenth anniversary of
the "9-11 terrorist attacks." A video clip regarding the potential security
threat on 11 September, 2011 as well as the recent terrorist bombings in India
and Pakistan is then played.

The host begins the discussion by asking whether the intelligence about the
three suspected terrorists plotting an attack on New York is true.

Qu Xing replies by questioning the validity of the intelligence and argues that
the US government should have captured the three terrorist suspects before
announcing the news. Qu then analyzes that given the expansive and ubiquitous US
intelligence network around the globe, each agent will be eager to "win
attention" through the tons of intelligence sent to Washington every day. Thus,
not all of them should be taken seriously, Qu believes. He also says that the
terrorist threat, which still exists in the United States after ten years, shows
the unbudged level of insecurity felt by the American people.

The host then asks whether the terrorist groups are still able to plot and
execute terrorist attacks on US soil.

Li Shaoxian says that he cannot rule out such a possibility and speculates that
terrorists still have the capability to launch attacks on the United States,
which are highly likely because Al-Qa'ida will definitely retaliate for Usama
Bin Ladin's assassination in May 2011 despite its limited revenge options.
Nevertheless, Li says that after ten years of security-building efforts, it is
indeed more difficult for Al-Qa'ida to launch attacks on the United States. Li
also points out that the biggest achievement of the US anti-terror efforts is
that attacks similar to "9-11" have not recurred since.

The host then asks whether the US government is capable of foiling further
terrorist attacks.

Li agrees and says that it will be nearly impossible for terrorist attacks of
the "9-11" scale to occur in the United States again. However, Li also points
out that if terror attacks of any scale do happen again in the United States,
President Obama's reelection bid in 2012 will be "seriously hampered."

A video clip regarding various methods of terrorist attacks is then played.

While calling it "a war of one nation against one individual," the host asks why
it has taken the US government ten years to hunt down and capture Usama Bin
Ladin.

Qu says that the main reason is that Usama Bin Ladin had been favoured and
sheltered by many local people near his hideouts, so his whereabouts could
remain secretive for so long.

The host then asks why the threat of terrorist attacks still exists in the
United States after ten years without signs of abatement.

Li first points out that the US anti-terror military actions are different from
the traditional warfare. While using advanced weapons and missiles can
temporarily deter terrorism, it cannot eliminate terrorism completely, he adds.
Li then compares terrorism to weeding, which only results in more growth of weed
afterwards. By the same token, Li argues that terrorism will not stop even after
the death of Usama Bin Ladin because a line of successors will take over the
helm whenever the incumbent Al-Qa'ida leaders are killed. He believes the reason
why terrorism has not been eliminated is because the Muslims in Arab countries
have harbored deep-seated hatred against the West, which has been intensified by
the US anti-terror actions. He then cites an article from a US magazine on
foreign affairs by saying that the US anti-terror efforts have backfired. Li
points out that the two wars have humiliatingly depleted the US economy and the
US unilateral military actions have only angered the Muslims. He believes the
world is even more insecure today than it was ten years ago.

Source: CCTV4, Beijing, in Chinese 1330gmt 09 Sep 11

LOAD-DATE: September 10, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2011 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              12 of 331 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring Middle East - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                          September 10, 2011 Saturday

"Armed terrorist group" attacks military bus in Syria's Homs

LENGTH: 188 words


Text of report in English by state-run Syrian news agency SANA website

["Armed terrorist group attacks military bus in Homs" - SANA Headline]

An official military source said an armed terrorist group attacked on Saturday
[10 September] a military bus near al-Fakhura Roundabout in Homs.

The source said the attack resulted in the martyrdom of the bus driver and
injuring workers at a military bakery, adding that clashes between the armed
group and security forces took place.

Muhammad Yasin Isa, an injured citizen, told the Syrian TV "While we were
heading to our work, we were exposed to intense gunfire from four directions.
The driver was shot in the head and he was martyred, along with several other
injuries."

Warrant officer Rami Hasan Hasan said "We were ambushed near al-Fakhura
Roundabout and there had been intense gunfire. The driver was martyred and I was
shot in the foot."

Wa'il Shkeif, a civil worker, said "We were intercepted by gunmen while we were
heading to work east of al-Fakhura roundabout and they opened fire at the
driver. I was shot in the face."

Source: SANA news agency website, Damascus in English 10 Sep 11

LOAD-DATE: September 10, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2011 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              13 of 331 DOCUMENTS



                               Belfast Telegraph

                          September 10, 2011 Saturday
                                 First Edition

The Belfast man who faced 'hell on earth' when skyscrapers fell;
Ten years after the horrific terror attacks in America, the Northern Ireland
relatives, friends and survivors of 9/11 share their stories with Ivan Little

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 450 words


Belfast-born paramedic Roger Smyth, who was hailed a hero after the Twin Towers
tragedies, could be forgiven for never wanting the numbers 9/11 to come up in
his life again.

For the Antrim Road man, whose New York badge number was 9110, came face to face
with death and destruction again on 9/11 three years to the day after the World
Trade Center attacks.

Roger had moved to the Cayman Islands on a two-year paramedic contract along
with his wife Shirin, who he married in 2003.

But on 9/11 in 2004 their home on what should have been the idyllic Caymans was
destroyed by the category-five Hurricane Ivan.

Roger, who had watched New York's part in 9/11 unfold from his home in Brooklyn
and immediately went to the aid of the survivors in Manhattan, showed the same
selflessness on the Cayman Islands by helping scores of victims.

Homeless Roger and Shirin lived in a tent for three months under curfew in
searing 40-degree temperatures with no running water, electricity or sanitation.

The following year Roger, Shirin and new baby daughter Farah came to live in
Belfast -- but after six months they were on the move again to Brighton, where
baby Sofia was born. Then, after Roger completed a postgraduate diploma as an
emergency care practitioner, the Smyths settled in Sydney, Australia, where they
are now citizens.

Roger (46) will not be marking the 10th anniversary of the World Trade Center
atrocities.

"That was only one day in New York," he said.

"It was nothing compared to the 25 years I spent in north Belfast."

Roger's story, and the photographs he took in Manhattan, will live on for ever.

They're featured in a best-selling book called Tower Stories: An Autobiography
Of September 11th, by Damon DiMarco.

Ten years ago sitting on the roof of his apartment, Roger told me how the
nightmare of 9/11 had affected him.

"It was probably the closest to hell on earth as you could possibly come," he
said.

"We deal with death every day -- we deal with young kids who have been shot in
the head, people who have been carved with knives, but nothing at all prepares
you for that." He told me he had to wrestle with a firefighter who was suffering
from burns and severe respiratory problems to stop him going back into the
rubble again to look for his missing colleagues.

Roger's heroism was recognised by the authorities in America.

His immigration status had expired in 2000, but he was granted a three-year
extension in recognition of his courage on September 11.

In 2002 President Mary McAleese presented Roger with a bravery award at a
glittering ceremony in the Plaza Hotel in Manhattan.

CAPTION: Heroic: Roger Smyth pictured on 9/11 in New York and (below left) in
Sydney, where he now lives with his family

LOAD-DATE: September 10, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: BT


                Copyright 2011 Belfast Telegraph Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              14 of 331 DOCUMENTS


                      Coventry Evening Telegraph (England)

                          September 10, 2011 Saturday
                                Nuneaton Edition

City marks 10th anniversary of terror attacks

SECTION: NEWS; FRONT PAGE; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 4 words


45p www.coventrytelegraph.net

LOAD-DATE: September 10, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2011 Coventry Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              15 of 331 DOCUMENTS



                          The Daily Telegraph (London)

                          September 10, 2011 Saturday
                                   Edition 2;
                                National Edition

Petri ready to fly the flag for 9/11 victims;
United States scrum-half was at school in New York on the day the terrorists
attacked the Twin Towers

BYLINE: Brendan Gallagher

SECTION: SPORT; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 1064 words


Like most people, Mike Petri remembers exactly where he was and what he was
doing when the terrorist attack on the Twin Towers of the World Trade Center on
Sept 11 2001 stopped the world in its tracks.

A 17-year-old schoolboy at the time Petri, now the United States scrum-half, was
in the library at Xavier High School in New York enjoying a free period when the
public address system crackled into life ordering everybody who was not in class
to make their way immediately to the gymnasium. There was an urgency in the
metallic voice that squashed any thoughts that it was a routine security
exercise that could be treated lightly.

There, among the medicine balls and gym mats, Petri and his mates were informed
that New York was under attack, a plane had flown into one of the Twin Towers
and the headmaster had decided to "lock down" the school. Nobody was going in or
out. The US was effectively at war.

Yet 36 hours later the muscular young Petri was delivering heavy oxygen and
cutting equipment to a smouldering Ground Zero and generally making himself
useful with his father, a plumber by trade, as the desperate and largely forlorn
search for survivors continued.

It was a sight that haunts Petri junior to this day although he will tell you
that the courage and selfless teamwork he saw on display from the emergency
services remains his biggest inspiration, in life and sport.

It will all come flooding back again tomorrow although, in truth, the images and
the stench of death and despair from Ground Zero are never far away, bubbling
away in his subconscious. A New Yorker to the core, he and his team-mates will
attend a commemorative service at St Andrew's Church in New Plymouth in the
morning and, after drying his eyes, Petri, will reach for his kitbag and head
for the Taranaki Stadium where Ireland await.

Frankly the United States have almost no chance but that will not stop the
Eagles trying to produce the performance of their lives.

"I can relive that day like it was yesterday," says Petri, who now plays for
Newport Gwent Dragons after a spell with Sale. "We were living in Brooklyn and
the school is in Lower Manhattan so I took the subway every morning and then
walked a few blocks to school passing through Fifth Avenue. And there they were
every morning, those two huge towers dominating the scene, ruling over New York
like they always did. You just took it for granted.

"And it was just the same that morning on September 11 on my way to school, a
beautiful morning as I recall, except when we were finally allowed to make our
journeys home that evening in the dust and eerie silence, they had just
vanished.

Gone. The world wasn't the same anymore.

"It was a scary and distressing day at school. My class was absolutely full of
pupils who either had parents working in the Twin Towers or fathers in the
emergency services and they were frantic with worry and trying to get news.
There was a mad rush for the phones but a lot of the networks were down and
there was no definite news on loved ones anyway. Some of my best friends'
fathers were killed that day, I was very lucky I had a family still to go home
to. In fact I was one of the few in my class whose family was untouched by the
terrorist attack.

Back at the school the teachers wouldn't put the TVs on so we hadn't seen what
happened, the second attack and the Towers collapsing, we were just hearing
second-hand reports. It was a war situation really, that's what it felt like and
nobody knew what was happening. Our safety was the first priority.

"That evening we were eventually cleared to go home and I made my way through
the subway and I have never seen scenes like it. There was nobody in the streets
but the tube stations were rammed, it was wallto-wall people and you had to
queue for half an hour even to get down the stairs. Everybody was in a state of
shock, almost nobody was talking.

"It was only when I got home and saw the news that I appreciated what had
happened. Then came the call for dad to get his equipment to Ground Zero,
anything and everything was needed, and suddenly I was right there with him
standing exactly where the towers used to be.

Unreal. It was completely overwhelming, a horrible, horrible chapter in our
nation's history, but the memory that still comes through strongest of all is
the courage of those emergency services and that tangible feeling of everybody
in New York coming together in a crisis.

"It's 10 years on now and I can't think of a much better way than to mark such a
sad day than being given the privilege of pulling on that Eagles jersey and
wearing the national colours in a big World Cup rugby match. We will all try and
make it special in our way. We know what a massive task it is for us to take on
a first-tier rugby nation like Ireland and how the odds are always stacked high
against us but we will play with immense pride and my hope is that somehow we
can find something extra on this of all days."

The Star-Spangled Banner will belt out, followed by a minute's silence. Petri
will bow his head and remember. And then he will hold his head high. Life goes
on, even if it will never be quite the same.

How they line up IRELAND G Murphy Leicester T Bowe Ospreys B O'Driscoll
Leinster, capt G D'Arcy Leinster K Earls Munster) J Sexton Leinster C Murray
Munster T Court Ulster R Best Ulster M Ross Leinster D O'Callaghan Munster P
O'Connell Munster S Ferris Ulster UNITED STATES B Scully Univ of California T
Ngwenya Biarritz P Emerick Life Univ A Suniula Chicago Griffins J Paterson Otago
R Suniula Boston M Petri Newport Gwent M MacDonald Leeds P Thiel Life Univ S
Pittman L Welsh J van der Giessen Utah H Smith Saracens L Stanfill Mogliano 15
14 13 12 11 10 9 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 T Clever Suntory, capt N Johnson unattached S
Jennings Leinster J Heaslip Leinster Ireland replacements: J Flannery Munster, T
Buckley Sale, D Ryan Munster, D Leamy Munster, E Reddan Leinster, R O'Gara
Munster, A Trimble Ulster. US replacements: C Biller San Francisco, M Moeakiola
Bobigny, S LaValla Stade Francais, P Danahy Life University, T Usasz Nottingham,
N Malifa Glendale, C Hawley Olympic Club Referee: C Joubert (S Africa)
Assistants: N Owens, C Damasco. TMO: G Hughes (England) . VENUE TARANAKI
STADIUM, NEW PLYMOUTH KICK-OFF 7AM TOMORROW BST TV LIVE ON ITV

"My class was full of pupils who had parents working in the Twin Towers or in
the emergency services

LOAD-DATE: September 10, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Fitting tribute: Mike Petri will be proud to pull on the US shirt
tomorrow
HENRY BROWNE/ACTION IMAGES

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DTL


                  Copyright 2011 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              16 of 331 DOCUMENTS



                          The Daily Telegraph (London)

                          September 10, 2011 Saturday
                                   Edition 2;
                                National Edition

LAND OF THE FEARFUL;
The lasting damage of the terrorist attacks has been to America's mindset and
its economy says Neil Tweedie 9/11 10 YEARS ON

BYLINE: Neil Tweedie

SECTION: FEATURES; Pg. 27

LENGTH: 1441 words


There is something sinister in the term Homeland Security. Homeland sounds a
little too like Fatherland for comfort, a place demanding unthinking loyalty.
Very un-American, one might imagine, but then Americans are not as free-wheeling
as they like to think they are. Most of them like rules, enforced with a brand
of passive aggression all the more unsettling for being delivered with a smile
as bright as it is indifferent

They don't even manage the smile at JFK when you hand over your passport. Well,
some do. Things have lightened a little since the early post 9/11 era when any
foreigner was an object of suspicion. The Orwellian technology remains, however:
the fingerprint scanner and camera, adding you to some vast, churning database,
and increasingly for those boarding flights in the United States, the hugely
intrusive whole-body scanner. Land of the Free-ish.

Yet, this stuff, billions of dollars worth of it, doesn't work. On Thursday
night, the minute after President Barack Obama finished his speech to Congress
on how he proposed to get 14 million unemployed Americans back to work, ABC News
cut into the broadcast to report that a team of al-Qaeda operatives was loose in
the United States. Citing intelligence sources, it claimed that three people,
one an American, had entered the country in August with the aim of conducting
attacks, possibly using truck bombs.

Paranoia was always going to be part of the tenth anniversary of September 11, a
partner to grief. Security in New York has been ramped up in advance of
tomorrow's commemoration at Ground Zero, to be attended by Obama and George W
Bush, and people are a little more jumpy. There is something else, though,
articulated rarely on grounds of taste: 9/11 fatigue. A lot of people are
getting out of New York this weekend to breathe fresher air.

Tim Kelleher, who works for T3 Live, an online financial information service, is
one of those going in search of a less oppressive atmosphere. The exodus from
the area around Wall Street, he says, began on Thursday. ''Down in Front Street,
bars like Nelson Blue or Stella Maris are usually packed with bond traders, and
it was a ghost town," he says. "They've left town already; and for the week,
too.

"I was telling a friend this at another place I go to and some drunken guy
misunderstood and started telling me I lacked respect. Don't tell me how to
respect people - that's why I want to leave town."

The events of 9/11 adhere to New York, even as the years pass. The wicked
ingenuity of the assault devised by Khalid Sheikh Mohammed, Osama bin Laden's
principal planner, lay not only in economy of force - just 19 men and a budget
of $500,000 - but in its changing of the city's motif, its skyline. One can date
television programmes from their cutaway shots of Manhattan: Twin Towers or no
Twin Towers. New Yorkers, believers in reinvention, are saddled with a constant
reminder, constructed of thin air.

There is another reminder, too. Two square holes in the ground, the footprints
of two giants where once some 50,000 people worked, 2,606 of them for the last
time on September 11 2001. Ground Zero, as Michael Bloomberg, mayor of New York,
prefers it not to be known, must in future function as a place of work, a shrine
and a final resting place, the repository for remains identified and
unidentified. The holes have been turned into monuments to the dead, their sides
imprinted with their names, arranged by association, by friendship, rather than
by alphabet. Water flows through them, disappearing as if into the centre of the
earth.

This being America, money is an issue. The tower that will replace the doomed
twins, One World Trade Centre, known as the Freedom Tower in the early days of
its protracted gestation, will cost the American taxpayer $3.3 billion, double
the cost of a normal skyscraper its size. Over-engineered to ensure maximum
survivability, it is the centrepiece of a construction project that has produced
cost over-runs of $2.2 billion.

The construction industry is not the only beneficiary.

Charities have sprung up around 9/11, some of dubious utility but almost all of
them good payers to the executives who run them. And then there is the biggest
beneficiary of all: the security state.

The September 11 attacks were most damaging to the long-term security of the
United States not in the destruction they wrought but in the response they
provoked. The War on Terror can be seen as one long lost opportunity, a
decade-long struggle that, while drawing most of the teeth from hydra-headed
al-Qaeda, has distracted America from much greater challenges, not least
competition from new economic rivals.

Joseph Stiglitz, recipient of the Nobel prize for economics, estimates that the
wars fought by America in Iraq and Afghanistan and their consequences have cost
between $3 trillion and $5 trillion, contributing to a crippling national debt
of $14.7 trillion. Twenty-two years after the Soviet Union called time on the
Cold War, the US feels it necessary to command a defence budget representing
half the global total. Annual spending is $700 billion, a 70 per cent increase
on 2001. Other costs range from rises in the price of oil to losses sustained by
airlines, but one figure stands out: homeland security. The bloated department
that carries that name is now second only in size to the Pentagon. Together with
other federal departments interested in security it has consumed $360 billion
during the past decade, while domestic intelligence gathering has cost another
$110 billion. The treasure expended, or rather borrowed from China, is out of
all proportion to the threat, according to John Mueller, an American academic
and expert on the security industry. He says that America would have to endure
almost 1,700 successful or abortive bomb attacks every year to justify the
scores of billions lavished on domestic security annually.

"There has been a massive increase in surveillance to deal with a limited
problem - I wouldn't even call it a threat," he says. "Fears of terrorism are
exaggerated. If you say your chance of being killed by terrorism is one in 3.5
million per year if you are an American - which it is - the danger is that
someone will say, 'How come we are giving you so much money?' There is an
incentive to inflate and play to fears. The thing is that terrorism sells, there
is a responsive audience. Genetically modified food doesn't sell as a fear;
global warming is selling better now but it took a long time. There is a genuine
fear of terrorism that what I call the terrorism industry can play on."

The wars drag on and the casualties mount. More than 6,000 Americans have died
fighting in Iraq and Afghanistan, not to mention more than 130,000 civilians in
those countries. The cost of tending to wounded and traumatised soldiers will
cost US taxpayers more billions in the years to come. There is another, less
tangible, cost to America's claim to the moral high ground. Rendition of
terrorist suspects to repressive regimes, assassination by drone, and the use of
waterboarding, a form of torture, have sullied the country's reputation.

Ordinary Americans know little of this, concerned as they are with unemployment
and the possible loss of their homes. Disillusionment is the order of the day -
Obama's approval rating is sub 50 per cent as he looks towards next year's
election campaign, and more than 70 per cent of Americans disapprove of the
Republican Party's stalling tactics in Congress over the setting of a new debt
ceiling. America is turning inward, winding down its commitments in Iraq, which
threatens to fall into the Iranian orbit, and Afghanistan, where chaos hovers.

Even the economy will take a temporary backseat tomorrow, though. A tenth
anniversary cannot be ignored and, weary or not of remembering, America will
remember. Relatives will gather not only at Ground Zero but at Shanksville,
Pennsylvania, the crash site of Flight 93, and in Washington in front of the
Pentagon. One of those attending the ceremony at the Pentagon will be John
Wesley, whose fiancée, Sarah Clark, died when American Airlines Flight 77 struck
the building. A writer and musician, he keeps Sarah's half-melted driving
licence, recovered from the debris.

"I've been hearing since 2002 people who say, 'Why don't you lay it to rest?
Nobody else is talking about it'. All of that is OK - this is America and
everyone is a publisher now, saying what they want on the internet, so all that
stuff is OK. But those of us who actually felt that pain, who had someone walk
out the door that morning and not return, we will never feel like that. Maybe
you have to be there."

LOAD-DATE: September 10, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Light of the world: a test of the Tribute in Light rises above One
World Trade Centre and lower Manhattan this week
AP

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DTL


                  Copyright 2011 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              17 of 331 DOCUMENTS


                               Grimsby Telegraph

                          September 10, 2011 Saturday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

I said to him, 'Dad, I'm OK' and as I said it, the second tower was hit ...;
Woman who was in New York when the Twin Towers were attacked remembers the
horror of that day ; Tomorrow, the world will unite to remember the 3,000
innocent people who lost their lives in the 9/11 terrorist attacks. In an
exclusive interview, Waltham woman Lisa Kelly, who was in New York on holiday at
the time, recalls her memories ten years on from that tragic day ...

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 4,5

LENGTH: 774 words


ON THE morning of Tuesday, September 11, 2001, Lisa Kelly was one of thousands
of tourists enjoying the spectacle of a bustling New York city.

Having spent Monday enjoying the breathtaking views from the top of the World
Trade Center, her trip had so far been one that she could have only dreamed of.

Lisa, who is now a partner for Bridge McFarland in Grimsby, said: "We had been
up one of the towers the day before, but it could quite easily have been the
Tuesday as our plans were interchangeable."

As she sat in her Times Square hotel room, recalling treasured memories of the
day before, Lisa was blissfully unaware she had just become one of the last
people ever to marvel at the stunning view of the city below - a view that in a
matter of hours would become one of utter devastation.

"Because we were quite far away, when the first plane went into the tower, I
didn't see it. But then I saw the footage come on the local news."

In a state of shock, Lisa called her dad, the late Peter Moore, who was editor
at the Grimsby Telegraph at the time and knew of her plans to go up the World
Trade Center.

Lisa said: "I said to him, 'Dad, I'm OK' and as I said it, the second tower was
hit.

"I turned to him (the phone) and added, 'Better put the phone down dad - you're
going to have a busy day'."

Like many of the people in the city that day, Lisa was unaware of the scale of
the devastation about to unfold and she continued with her holiday, first paying
a visit to the Museum Of Art in Fifth Avenue.

Within minutes of arrival they were evacuated - it was the start of a string of
realisations that the city Lisa loved - and still loves to this day - would
never be the same again.

She wandered past the Waldorf Astoria, Trump Tower and the CBS Building, back
towards the World Trade Center and looked up in horror at the large television
screens playing out the disaster unfolding downtown - the first of the iconic
towers collapsing into the ground.

What followed are scenes now etched in Lisa's memory, they are the first to come
to the surface whenever 9/11 is mentioned, and are the ones she will look back
on tomorrow as she remembers the 3,000 innocent people who perished at the hands
of terrorists ten years ago.

She said: "As we saw the first tower crumble, hundreds of people put their hands
to their faces in horror and there was this huge, collective gasp of breath as
we watched it collapse.

"I remember the feeling of total shock at seeing people walking around with grey
dust all over their backs that had covered them as they ran away from the
devastation. "We went back to the hotel and I washed my face. I remember pulling
grit out of my eyes from the dust of the towers. We still weren't aware of the
full situation, but soon there were posters and shrines for the lost people. It
was very emotional to see.

"One scary moment was watching people being evacuated from the Empire State
Building. There was an atmosphere filled with tension and there were moments
when we were left thinking 'what's next?' After a couple of days, Lisa left New
York for a week in Boston and actually stayed at the hotel where the hijackers
of Flight 11 slept the night before they flew the plane into the first tower,
killing all 92 people on board.

Despite being out of the city, the threat of further attacks still loomed and
Lisa cut her holiday short to come home.

In the ten years since, she has returned to New York and paid her respects at
Ground Zero.

She has also been to Florida and was there when Bin Laden, the mastermind behind
the 9/11 attacks, was killed by the American Army in Pakistan.

Her love for the country has never wavered and in a strange way, she feels lucky
to have witnessed an event that will go down in history as the one that changed
the world forever.

She said: "You cannot compare experiencing that as a tourist in a hotel to being
from America and New York. Personally I have been very lucky in how I feel about
it and to be able to say 'this is what happened to me'.

"Over the passage of time, parts of it are still very vivid and they still come
back to me. If I dwell too much, especially thinking I was probably one of the
last 100 people to go up the World Trade Center, I could become quite jittery,
so I don't, and I won't.

"Hopefully, it will remain the biggest event in mine and my children's lifetime
and I hope never have to experience anything like that."

DUST CLOUD: People run from the collapse of World Trade Centre towers.

HORRIFYING SIGHT: Smoke billows from the towers of the World Trade Centre on
9/11. Below, firefighters among the rubble.

As we saw the first tower crumble, there was a collective gasp Lisa Kelly

LOAD-DATE: September 10, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: 'TOTAL SHOCK': Left, Lisa Kelly still remembers the day of the New York
attacks vividly. Middle and right, the front pages of the Grimsby Telegraph from
the time.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: GRT


                        Copyright 2011 Grimsby Telegraph
                              All Rights Reserved

                              18 of 331 DOCUMENTS


                                Hull Daily Mail

                          September 10, 2011 Saturday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

'Michael was on the phone to his wife when the plane hit. That day will live
with me forever';
Tomorrow will be the tenth anniversary of the terrorist attack on the World
Trade Centre in New York. Reporter James Campbell speaks to Brian Johnson, who
lost two cousins in the atrocity

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 8,9

LENGTH: 1252 words


BY HIS own admission, retired fireman Brian Johnson isn't the "grieving type".

But the poignancy of what happened in New York ten years ago tomorrow will never
leave him.

Like everyone else, he was glued to the television screen, looking on in
disbelief as a second plane crashed into the World Trade Centre on September 11,
2001.

More than 3,000 people lost their lives when Al-Qaeda terrorists flew two planes
into the Twin Towers in the heart of New York's business district.

Brian, 62, has been a firefighter all his working life and was fascinated by the
response of his fellow crews in the United States.

With a strategic eye, he was analysing the response of the firefighters to the
disaster as it unfolded. But the incredible and devastating scenes quickly took
on a more personal aspect.

A phone call from his mum Anne, who died in November aged 94, confirmed his
cousins Michael and Christine Egan - a brother and sister originally from
Orchard Park - were in the second tower.

"I was in 'B' division in Bransholme at the time," he said.

"By the time I got into work, everyone was sitting around the television.

"There was a sense none of this was real. "We were looking at it from a
strategic point of view, wondering how we would deal with the situation as
firefighters.

"Then I got a phone call from my mum saying Michael was in the World Trade
Centre.

"I told her not to worry and she was just a bit confused. But it soon became
clear what she said was true."

Not only were there concerns over Michael, but his sister Christine was also
there.

"Michael's sister Christine was also in New York visiting him," Brian said.

"She actually lived in Canada, close to the Arctic Circle, where she was a nurse
helping Inuit Indians.

"Suddenly, it became a family matter and not just something we were watching on
television.

"I had no idea what had happened to them until four days later when I saw their
pictures in the UK papers, marked as missing.

"From my training as a fire officer, I knew there was no way anyone could have
survived when the towers collapsed.

"I am not the grieving type, to be honest. "But that day will always live with
me. "When someone you grew up with dies like that, it is incredibly poignant.

"I remember saying that day that things would never be the same worldwide."

Despite the family tragedy unfolding, Brian decided to go ahead with the holiday
he had booked. "I went on holiday to Cephalonia the day after it happened," he
said.

"I'm fatalistic about these things so I didn't feel I should stay behind.

"It was a very strange holiday. Part of me was enjoying it, but part of me
really wanted to get back home. I realised I needed to get back."

It was a year before Brian, of Brackley Close, east Hull, heard what had really
happened to his cousins.

"I met Michael's wife Anna and their children during a commemoration at Queens
Gardens in Hull for the first anniversary," he said.

"It was only then that I heard the amazing stories and really began to
understand what had happened.

"Michael had actual got most of his staff out of the building before the second
plane hit.

"But he went back inside. Clearly, he couldn't know what would happen next.

"He was on the phone to his wife when the plane hit.

"I heard later Christine had set up a first aid centre on the 10th floor. That
was typical of Christine. "It just seems crazy that she would normally be up
near the Arctic Circle but was in New York on that day.

"Michael and Christine were very close. For them both to be there at the same
time is very strange."

Michael was married to Anna and had two sons, Jonathan and Matthew. Christine
never married.

Brian is clearly proud of what his cousins achieved. "As young kids, I was very
close to Michael," he said.

"We grew up together in the same area of Hull. There was only a year difference
between us. "Michael was the most successful of my cousins. He had gone to the
US and worked his way up to vice president of AON."

While Brian's thoughts clearly lie with the fate of his cousins, the
firefighting side of him was fascinated by the rescue operation.

He said: "I had a big interest in the 343 firefighters who died. I had been a
training officer for a lot of years.

"I kept thinking about what I would have done in that situation.

"If something like 9/11 happened in the UK, we would never have lost that number
of firefighters. "They do things very differently in America. All the
firefighters off duty just turned up to help. But if we did that, we would be
disciplined.

"There is a very firm command structure here and every firefighter has to be
accounted for." While the shattering events only happened ten years ago, Brian
is stunned by the ignorance of the younger generation.

"A couple of times, people from the college come to the gardens," he said.

"One more than once occasion, I have been asked what the memorial is for.

"I explain it to them but some of them ask me what the Twin Towers were.

"I just wonder how many young people really don't know or can't remember what
happened that day.

"I wouldn't be surprised if 50 per cent of those aged 16 to 18 years have no
understanding of this. "Part of me feels glad that people can move on, but I
feel it is important the events should be remembered.

"This is the biggest disaster to have happened in modern western history."

A nation mourns 3,000 lives US President Barack Obama plans to mark the 9/11
anniversary with visits to New York's ground zero, the Pentagon and Shanksville,
Pennsylvania.

He also will deliver remarks at a memorial concert at the Kennedy Centre in
Washington as the nation mourns the loss of more than 3,000 lives in the attacks
on the Twin Towers.

TRIBUTE: President Barack Obama.

The anniversary comes as US counterterrorism officials are chasing a credible
but unconfirmed Al-Qaeda threat to use a car bomb on bridges or tunnels in New
York City or Washington.

Security has been enhanced around the country in the weeks leading up to the
10th anniversary, a date officials have long known could be an appealing time to
attack.

There were no plans to change President Obama's travel schedule on Sunday in
light of the threat, the White House said.

Region pays its respects to devastating events THE World Trade Centre Hull And
Humber is flying its flag at half-mast this weekend to mark the devastating
events in New York ten years ago.

The centre, now based in Queen Street, is part of the World Trade Centre
Association and is working to create new business opportunities and prosperity
for the Humber region.

It is part of a 320-strong global network of World Trade Centres in 96
countries.

World Trade Centre Hull And Humber manager Ian Archibald said: "The horrific
events that unfolded on September 11, 2001, destroyed the physical structures
that were the birthplace and the home of the World Trade Centres Association
(WTCA) for the first 30 years of its existence, and resulted in the senseless
loss of thousands of innocent lives.

"However, instead of retreating from international trade, the WTCA and global
commerce have continued to expand and develop.

"Here in Hull and the Humber region, we are very much part of that international
growth and the WTCA's successes.

"This weekend, the memories of 9/11 will be fresher than ever in everyone's
minds. But while the remembrances in New York on Sunday are very much about
casting a look to the past, to pay our respects to the people who died in, or
were directly affected by, that awful attack, this is also an opportunity to
look to the here and now, and to the future."

LOAD-DATE: September 10, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: A DECADE AGO: Retired fireman Brian Johnson at the Peace Garden, Queens
Gardens, Hull, , remembering his cousins who died in the 9/11 New York terrorist
attacks IN MEMORY: Flag flying half mast at The World Trade Centre, Queens
Street, Hull.
NEVER FORGET: Michael and his sister Christine Egan were tragically killed on
September 11, 2001.
TERRORIST ATTACK: A fireball explodes as a jet crashes into the second World
Trade Centre

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: HDM


                         Copyright 2011 Hull Daily Mail
                              All Rights Reserved

                              19 of 331 DOCUMENTS


                            Nottingham Evening Post

                          September 10, 2011 Saturday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

The day I lost my father in terror attacks on New York;
Nottingham musician Iryna Muha will be among those at a commemoration event for
the 9/11 victims at Ground Zero tomorrow. Marcus Boocock spoke to her about the
death of her father in the terror attacks in 2001

BYLINE: Marcus Boocock

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 438 words


ON August 28, 2001, Iouri Mouchinski celebrated his grandson Sasha's first
birthday at the Windows on the World restaurant on top of the World Trade
Center.

Just two weeks later, Iouri was killed when two planes struck the Twin Towers in
the worst terror attack carried out on American soil.

That day has always haunted Iouri's daughter, Forest Fields musician Iryna Muha.

At the time of 9/11, she lived in Vermont, but had travelled to New York to
spend the summer with her parents.

Iouri, 55, was in the World Trade Center that day picking up a payment for
plumbing work in the same restaurant, on the 106th floor of the north tower,
when a United Airlines Boeing 767 plane was flown into it at just after 2pm.

It wasn't until much later that day that Iryna and her family realised something
was drastically wrong.

She said: "My father had got up and said he was going out to get this payment.
It was a lovely day so we went to the beach and had a nice day.

"It wasn't until we came home later on that day that we saw on TV what had
happened. "My dad didn't say where he had gone to get the payment. He worked at
a lot of places so it could have been anywhere.

"But when he didn't come home we began to think something was wrong."

It wasn't until December that year that the family's worst fears were realised,
when Iouri was named among the near 3,000 killed in the atrocities. "It
devastated us all," said Iryna. "How do you get over something like that?"
Iryna, who moved to England in 2003, has now flown back to New York to attend
tomorrow's tenth anniversary commemoration at Ground Zero with her family.

They will witness the new waterfall landmarks, situated in the footprints of the
north and south towers.

"It will be an emotional day, my dad will certainly be in my thoughts," said
Iryna, 35. "I will be able to see his name on the monument." Ukrainian-born
Iryna says it was difficult to come to terms with and accept her father's death.
But earlier this year, she and her band MuHa released a music video in tribute
to him. She says the video, which sees them performing Russian folk song Kaby
Vedala (If Only I Knew), helped her to begin to talk about the tragedy.

And she has now organised a 9/11 commemoration event in Nottingham. Her band and
others will perform at Nottingham Contemporary on Friday, September 23, from
8pm.

She said: "I want it to be a chance for people in Nottingham to commemorate what
happened on that day.

Entry is free. Donations will be being taken for the charity War Child, which
supports children affected by war.

I want it to be a chance for people to commemorate what happened on that day
Iryna Muha

LOAD-DATE: September 10, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Shocking image: The south tower of the World Trade Center collapses
after being struck on 9/11.
Family loss: Iryna Muha, 35, lost her father Iouri Mouchinski, below, in the
9/11 attacks on the World Trade Center.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: NEP


                     Copyright 2011 Nottingham Evening Post
                              All Rights Reserved

                              20 of 331 DOCUMENTS



                                 thetimes.co.uk

                    September 10, 2011 Saturday 7:13 PM GMT

Obama: 9/11 terror attacks made America 'stronger'

BYLINE: Sadie Gray

SECTION: US & AMERICAS

LENGTH: 970 words


The September 11 attacks have made the United States stronger, President Barack
Obama said today as the country prepared to commemorate the tenth anniversary of
the atrocities which killed almost 3,000 people and sparked two wars.

He paid tribute to the "tireless efforts" of US security forces including the
military in achieving that, but added that it was time to pull American troops
out of Iraq and Afghanistan to concentrate upon "nation building here at home".

"Thanks to the tireless efforts of our military personnel and our intelligence,
law enforcement and homeland security professionals, there should be no doubt:
today, America is stronger and al-Qaeda is on the path to defeat," said Mr Obama
in his weekly radio and internet address.

"They wanted to draw us in to endless wars, sapping our strength and confidence
as a nation. But even as we put relentless pressure on al-Qaeda, we're ending
the war in Iraq and beginning to bring our troops home from Afghanistan, because
after a hard decade of war, it is time for nation-building here at home."

Mr Obama opposed the US-led wars in both Iraq, where he plans to have reduced
the American military presence to 50,000 by the end of this month, and
Afghanistan, where the first troops are leaving a decade after routing the
Taleban.

He does, however, have a major blow against al-Qaeda to his name: approving the
US special forces mission which assassinated Osama bin Laden at his Pakistan
compound in May. The terrorist overlord's death, and the Arab Spring uprisings
against autocratic leaders, cast a shadow over al-Qaeda's legacy, Mr Obama said.

The President spoke as the United States remains on high alert for terror
strikes timed to coincide with tomorrow's anniversary. Police continue to
investigate an alleged plot to use truck bombs to destroy bridges or tunnels in
New York or Washington having been tipped off to a "credible threat," details of
which are beginning to emerge.

"Yes, we face a determined foe, and make no mistake - they will keep trying to
hit us again. But as we are showing again this weekend, we remain vigilant," he
said. "We're doing everything in our power to protect our people, and no matter
what comes our way, as a resilient nation, we will carry on.

"We've forged new partnerships with nations around the world to meet the global
challenges that no nation can face alone, and across the Middle East and North
Africa, a new generation of citizens is showing that the future belongs to those
that want to build, not destroy."

Today Mr Obama and his wife, Michelle, visited the military grounds of Arlington
National Cemetary to pay their respects to the 6,213 American troops who have
died in Afghanistan since operations began in 2001 and in Iraq since the 2003
invasion.

In an emotional memorial service today, former Presidents Bill Clinton and
George W. Bush paid tribute to the crew and passengers of Flight 93 at a former
strip mine near the town of Shanksville, where the plane came down. 40
passengers were killed in the United Airlines crash.

The President will tomorrow visit each of the three sites of the September 11
attacks: the site of the World Trade Centre towers in New York, the Pentagon, in
Virginia, and the field near Shanksville, Pennsylvania, where the fourth
hijacked airliner crashed.

Meanwhile, Rudolph Giuliani, who was Mayor of New York at the time of the
attacks and ran for the Republican presidential nomination in 2008, used his
party's weekly address to oppose the President's swift withdrawal of troops from
Iraq and Afghanistan.

"The timetable should not be based on a politically expedient calendar, but on
when we've eliminated the threat of domestic attacks being generated in that
particular part of the world," he said.

"We must not allow impatience to prevent our military from achieving its
objective in Iraq and Afghanistan - and the objective is the elimination of the
threat to our nation.

"People often ask me, 'Is America safer now than it was before September 11?'
The answer is yes, but not as safe as we should be. We've made significant
improvements in intelligence gathering and in airport security. But much work
remains."

Details today began emerging of the alleged al-Qaeda plot to mark the tenth
anniversary with another strike against New York or Washington, ordered by the
bin Laden's successor as the network's leader, Ayman al-Zawahi.

A CIA informer with a good track record last week told US intelligence officers
overseas that three men had been dispatched by al-Zawahi to detonate car bombs
in one of the cities. If that mission failed, they were simply to cause as much
devastation as possible.

At least two of the would-be bombers were believed to be American citizens, and
all would be carrying US travel documents. They were of Arab descent and were
likely to speak Arabic as well as English, the informer claimed.

Intelligence officers were looking for specific names associated with the
threat, but it was unclear whether they were aliases, a source close to the
investigation told the Associated Press.

Despite working round the clock since the tip-off came in on Thursday, they have
been unable to confirm the plot's existence. Meanwhile, security around railway
stations, airports and nuclear power plants, remains tight. Police in New York
and Washington are carrying assault rifles, and uniformed National Guards are
patrolling the New York subway. Extra patrols around bridges and tunnels are
searching larger vehicles and hire company vans or lorries.

"We're watching," said James McJunkin, the FBI's assistant director of the
Washington field office. "We expect we're going to get an increase in threats
and investigative activity around high-profile dates and events. This is a
routine response for us. It's routine because it's muscle memory."

LOAD-DATE: September 10, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication


                     Copyright 2011 News International Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                              21 of 331 DOCUMENTS



                               Independent.co.uk

                     September 11, 2011 Sunday 12:05 AM GMT

9/11 lost decade: The American dream, and the missing years;
The terror attacks of 2001 ushered in a decade of wars that shattered Iraq and
Afghanistan, leaving the world's only superpower robbed of its confidence and
stripped of its illusions

BYLINE: By Rupert Cornwell

SECTION: FRONTPAGE

LENGTH: 4021 words


In America they speak of the "lost decade". The moment it began is obvious: the
morning of 11 September 2001, when the world's lone superpower fell victim to
the most devastating terrorist attack of modern times. Its end, however, is
harder to date.

One answer is 1 May this year, when a team of Navy Seals tracked down and killed
Osama bin Laden at his hideaway in Pakistan. A circle was complete; after almost
10 years of frustration, false leads and continuous war, the master planner of
9/11 had finally paid for his crime. But look at it another way and the answer
is not so obvious.

In these 10 years America has lost much, in terms of lives, treasure and
reputation. Most of all, perhaps, it has lost its illusions. One, that its home
territory was invulnerable, beyond the reach of hostile foreigners, vanished on
that terrible Tuesday morning. But a decade on, another no less cherished
illusion has disappeared as well: the certainty that whatever happened in the
world beyond, America was a place of infinite opportunity and ever-growing
prosperity.

Formally, of course, the anniversary of 9/11 is today. But when one era closes,
another begins. In a sense, this lost decade ended 72 hours earlier, on Thursday
evening, when President Obama presented Congress with his plan to prevent the US
economy from slipping back into the worst economic recession since the 1930s. It
was a call to arms that mirrored George W Bush's in the same place when he
declared his "war on terror". But this time, Mr Obama did not even mention 9/11.
Instead, as rarely before, an American president acknowledged bitter economic
reality. It has taken a decade.

The attacks of 11 September 2001 changed everything. If the 20th century in
reality ended on Christmas Day 1991, at the moment the Soviet Union passed into
history, the 21st century began only on that perfect autumn morning along the US
mid-Atlantic seaboard, when apocalypse arrived. Things happened in between: the
Balkan wars, a genocide in Rwanda, the painful birth of a new Russia, as well as
the death of an English princess and the adventures of a White House intern.
History, however, seemed on holiday until 9/11.

At each of the three sites - Ground Zero in New York, the Pentagon in Washington
and the wooded meadow near Shanksville, Pennsylvania, where United's Flight 93
crashed - elaborate memorials have been erected and solemn ceremonies will today
take place. But, however moving, these cannot convey the enormity of the event.

Even now, our minds do not have space to accommodate simultaneously the
tragedies of that day: the destruction, the 3,000 lost lives, the shattered
families, the heroism of New York's firefighters and the bravery of the
passengers on UA93, who sacrificed themselves to prevent a direct hit on the US
capital (with Congress in full session), just 20 minutes' flying time away. Even
now, those images of planes ripping like darts into gleaming skyscrapers amid a
giant burst of yellow, orange and black seem surreal, something from the realm
of comic strip fantasy, not the recent history of lower Manhattan.

And then there's everything that flowed from 9/11: the wars, the changes in a
wounded America's attitude to the world, either "with us or against us", as well
as in foreign attitudes towards America, and the later terrorist attacks in
Bali, London, Madrid and elsewhere. The sole comfort, such as it is, is that 11
September 2001 could have been even more dreadful; the initial plan was an
operation involving not four but 10 hijacked aircraft, striking targets on the
West Coast as well.

Could it have been prevented? Perhaps, but not without a huge slice of luck. The
report on the attacks, published here in 2004 by the non-partisan 9/11
Commission and still a terrific read, identifies "four kinds of failure: in
imagination, policy, capabilities and management". They are best dealt with in
reverse order.

The management shortcomings consisted mainly in the shameful lack of
co-operation between the FBI and the CIA, the two main counter-terrorism
agencies, and the slow response of FBI headquarters to warnings from its agents
in the field. Had the CIA told the bureau in 2000 and 2001 that two al-Qa'ida
suspects who were among the future hijackers were in the US, the two might have
been placed under surveillance; conceivably, the hijacking might have been
disrupted.

In terms of capability, ie the military resources and strategies devoted to the
terrorist threat, the Pentagon was still relying on Cold War thinking and Cold
War weapons. Moreover, the country's defences faced outward, to counter any
threat from abroad, not ones originating at domestic civil airports. On the
policy front it was a similar story: before 9/11, the biggest foreign
preoccupations were the Balkans, Saudi Arabia and the Middle East conflict. The
US was well aware of al-Qa'ida - Bill Clinton had sent cruise missiles against
its bases in 1998. Beyond that though, what was to be done: invade Afghanistan?

Today, much has changed. The FBI and the CIA seem to be working more smoothly
together, though some tensions remain. Of less certain value, the federal
government now boasts a revamped intelligence structure that places the 15
separate existing agencies under a single director of national intelligence, as
well as a new bureaucratic behemoth, the Department of Homeland Security. The
efforts of the latter may be seen in the numbing security procedures at
airports, a domestic counterpart to the precautions that have turned US
embassies abroad (not to mention the State Department in Washington) into
concrete fortresses that are the very antithesis of diplomatic outreach.

And no one can complain about a lack of focus on terrorism by the Pentagon or
White House. Counter-insurgency and asymmetric warfare are now core military
missions. Unmanned drones are more widely used than ever; elite special forces
have been greatly enlarged. On 1 May, they proved their worth with the
spectacular Seals raid that killed Bin Laden and captured a trove of vital
al-Qa'ida documents.

That was an obvious and long-overdue success. A less trumpeted success is that,
despite every prediction to the contrary in the aftermath of 9/11, there have
been no more attacks on mainland America. It has taken 10 years, but the US may
be close to a knockout blow against al-Qa'ida, at least the original al-Qa'ida
that Bin Laden ran.

However, of the failures identified by the commission, the biggest was that of
imagination. Even with the full advantage of hindsight, it is still hard to
grasp how a group of fanatics and social misfits, numbering half the size of an
army platoon, in an operation costing just $500,000 and run from one of the
poorest, most backward corners of the earth, could have wreaked such mayhem on
the most powerful country in history - mayhem that resulted in direct insurance
losses of $40bn, about the same as for Hurricane Katrina.

Yes, counter-terrorism specialists knew that, in theory, something like that
could happen; much has been made of the daily intelligence report sent to
President George Bush on 6 August 2001, a month before the attacks, with the
heading "Bin Laden Determined to Strike in US", and warning of "suspicious
activity in this country consistent with preparations for hijackings or other
types of attacks". But the when, where and how were unspecified. What, in
practice, was the much-maligned Bush supposed to do?

However, after 9/11, he made up for previous inactivity with a vengeance. In
response to the attacks, directly or indirectly, the US embarked on three wars:
first an entirely reasonable one against the Taliban government in Afghanistan
that sheltered Bin Laden and his organisation and refused to turn them over;
then the disastrous war of choice against Iraq; and third, the all-encompassing
global "war on terror", aka GWOT.

In 2009, that moniker was amended to the more soothing Overseas Contingency
Operations. But GWOT continues, more quietly but no less relentlessly than
before. Those insurance losses pale into insignificance as well. According to
one academic study, the final bill for this age of wars, the longest in US
history, could run to $4trn.

The unquantifiable costs were no less great. The "war on terror" and all that
flowed from it - the torture of suspects, the endless imprisonment of "enemy
combatants" denied the most basic right of habeas corpus, CIA "ghost camps",
extraordinary renditions, Guantanamo Bay, Abu Ghraib - did shocking damage to
America's reputation. Even the election of the first black president who, having
spent part of his childhood in the Muslim world, was peculiarly well-equipped to
see the US as others see it, has failed to expunge the image of arrogance,
unilateralism and sheer ignorance created by his predecessor. Indeed, Obama has
continued many Bush-era policies, albeit with the roughest edges removed.
Contrary to his initial promises, Guantanamo Bay remains open for business, and
terrorist suspects will continue to be tried (if they are tried at all) in
military courts. Drone attacks are more frequent than ever, despite the
resentment they cause in populations the US is trying to win over.

At home, the panic of a decade ago has subsided. With a fatalism not usually
associated with the most can-do country on God's earth, Americans increasingly
accept that terrorism is a part of the world we live in. But the trauma of that
terrible day lingers, and America's centres of power remain very jumpy places.
Experts have long warned that a new attack might involve WMD, even some form of
nuclear device. When Washington was struck by an earthquake last month, a single
thought flashed through every mind: was this al-Qa'ida's 10th anniversary
present? And not unreasonably so. Statistically, if the ground beneath the White
House starts to shudder, the cause is rather more likely to be the work of
terrorists than a quake in seismically tranquil Virginia.

Could there be another 9/11? A repeat of what happened then is highly unlikely,
not least because people are alert. Witness the action of the passengers who
overpowered the shoe-bomber Richard Reid in December 2001, and the would-be
"underwear-bomber" who tried to blow up a Northwest Airlines plane as it
prepared to land in Detroit on 25 December 2009. As usual, though, we are
fighting the last war. Do the authorities have the imagination to foresee what
shape the next attack might take?

Now to a hypothetical, but very relevant question: what if 11 September had
never happened? Would America be very different? In some respects, the answer,
of course, is yes. Airports would be more welcoming places. Deadly bombings and
the mass murder of civilians would still be regarded as a blight on less
fortunate lands, not for the US, blessed as it is by friendly neighbours and
vast oceans that separate it from the world's turmoil.

It is even possible that George Bush, whose presidency seemed destined for
mediocrity even before 9/11, might have been defeated after a single term. That
he squeaked through in November 2004 was largely due to the country's
unwillingness to change commander-in-chief in the midst of three wars. But
whoever followed him in the Oval Office would surely not have been spared the
worst economic and financial collapse since the Great Depression. And the
consequences of this crisis - not terrorism - are the overwhelming concern and
challenge for Americans today.

In fact, 9/11 does bear some blame for the severity of the crisis and lack of
options open to Obama. Bush chose to pay for his wars with borrowed money,
adding to the debt that ties his successor's hands. But you can't blame Osama
bin Laden for the government's mania to deregulate.

Nor was Bin Laden responsible for the years of excessively low interest rates
set by the Federal Reserve that fed the reckless mortgage lending that led to
the sub-prime crisis, or for the equally reckless behaviour of the banks. Nor
has he anything to do with America's chronic inability to live within its means.
Consider the price of gold, safe haven par excellence in times of uncertainty.
After 11 September, it shot up from $215 to $287 an ounce, but soon levelled
out. A decade later it stands close to $1,900, six times higher.

And in politics too, the story is the same. Partisanship and endless squabbling
have reduced the system to near-terminal dysfunction. Today's rancour and
gridlock in Washington can be traced to several causes. They include the
Republicans' belief that they were played for suckers by a cynical Bill Clinton,
the left's belief in a "vast right-wing conspiracy" that led to Clinton's
impeachment, and its enduring conviction that the 2000 election was stolen by a
combination of Bush, a rigged voting system in Florida and the US Supreme Court.

Among those causes, however, 9/11 does not figure. In fact, the attacks
generated a short-lived but extraordinary political unity. Today, the Patriot
Act of October 2001 that gave sweeping extra powers to the police and other
government agencies to combat terrorists is widely criticised, and not only from
the left, as an encroachment on basic civil liberties. Few now remember that the
bill passed the Senate by a majority of 98 votes to one - or that in a supremely
moving moment on the evening of the terrible day itself, Senators and
Congressmen, Democrats and Republicans alike, stood together on the steps of the
Capitol and broke into an unscripted rendering of "God Bless America".

At that moment, Bush, his popularity at a stratospheric 90 per cent, could have
used the moment to do bold things, unimaginable in normal times, and which might
have mitigated the economic crisis that lay ahead. He could have reversed some
of his tax cuts to pay for his wars; he could have imposed a petrol tax to raise
revenue and reduce America's crippling dependency on oil from the very region
where the terrorists originated. But for lack of will, or lack of imagination,
he blew his chance. Then, just as now, compromise had to be on Republican terms:
in other words, my way or the highway.

If Bin Laden can be blamed for anything, it is for causing the US to take its
eye off the ball. The "war on terror" eclipsed all else. In its name the US
would spend its blood and treasure to secure a safer world, in the mistaken
belief that nothing could not be achieved by the might of American arms and the
imposition of Western-style democracy. All the while, China and other rising
industrial powers moved quietly but steadily forward. They captured American
markets and American jobs, and bought vast quantities of US debt to enable the
country to continue to consume more than it produced. The world's mightiest
military power was now the world's biggest debtor.

And all the while, the truth was concealed. From Washington, presidents have
continued to peddle the doctrine of "American exceptionalism". Their country was
different from other countries, Bush told them, it had a special place in the
world. It could make its own rules, and everything would come right in the end.
In the immediate aftermath of 9/11, such language was a necessary morale-booster
for a traumatised nation. These days it is wilful evasion of reality. To Obama's
credit, his speech on Thursday evening, acknowledging that the US faced a
protracted "national crisis", contained remarkably little that sugared the pill
of truth.

Whether his plan will make it across the great political divide is quite another
matter. Nothing suggests Republicans have changed their calculation that by
thwarting Obama at every turn, they increase their chances of recapturing the
White House next year. But they should be careful. Political and economic cycles
do not always coincide.

Intrinsic to America's can-do mentality is the expectation of a quick solution
to every problem. Their failure to deliver instant results is a prime reason why
Obama and, even more so, Congress are held in such low esteem. Bush was
re-elected in 2004, but in the 2006 mid-terms the country returned control of
Capitol Hill to the Democrats. In 2008, Obama and his party swept the board,
only to lose the House of Representatives a bare two years later, on the wrong
end of the biggest landslide in seven decades. The end product of this cycle of
frustration is the anti-government Tea Party, which sends its breed of
conservative Republicans to Washington with the express aim of dismantling
Washington. And in 2012, who knows? Perhaps voters will send Obama packing.
Perhaps they will say to obstructionist Republicans, enough is enough. But Bin
Laden has little to do with these convulsions. They are caused by a far more
insidious foe - the destruction not of buildings and lives, but of once-bedrock
certainties, undermined not by al-Qa'ida but by global economic trends that, if
anything, are likely to intensify in the decades ahead.

Ever since the Depression, a prime tenet of "the American Dream" has been that
each generation will be better off than the one before it. Until the turn of the
century, that was true. But since 2001 the poverty rate has risen; the median
income has declined; the number of people without health insurance has grown;
and the gap between rich and poor is wider than at any time since the 1929 Wall
Street Crash.

Most dispiriting of all is unemployment. The headline figure is 9 per cent;
throw in those who are not counted, or who have given up looking for work, and
the true rate may be close to 17 per cent. No wonder two-thirds of the
population believe the country is in decline, both at home and in terms of its
influence abroad.

A decade after the horrors of 9/11, the world's lone superpower is learning anew
one of history's constants, that economic crises can be even more intractable
than wars. Wars unite, and what would the country not give to rediscover the
sense of unity spawned in September 2001. But the idea of Democrats and
Republicans holding hands and singing "God Bless America" to celebrate the
passage of an economic grand bargain to put the country to rights? That wouldn't
be an illusion, but a delusion.

Ten years of fear, conflict and the erosion of civil liberties

Ten years ago yesterday, the US was continuing to revel in the fall of
communism, the dotcom revolution and minor sex scandals involving the
ever-frisky members of Congress. If this wasn't, in the still-fashionable
thesis, the end of history, it seemed as if it were taking an extended vacation.
Since then, there has been rather too much history. And the cost in lost lives
has been appalling - at least 236,500 people killed in Afghanistan, Iraq and
Pakistan, according to the "Costs of War" study by the Watson Institute for
International Studies at Brown University in Rhode Island. That is nearly 80
times the death toll on 9/11, and the effects of those attacks do not end there.

Afghanistan

The Taliban are gone, but in their place are still war, terrorist attacks,
corruption on an epic scale and such a formidable opium and cannabis harvest
that parts of the country are, in effect, a drugs factory. And, in some areas
(notably women's rights and education), gains are being set in reverse. For the
nearly $450bn Congress estimates the US alone has spent waging war there, every
Afghan man, woman and child could have been handed $15,000 - 10 years' average
earnings. Life expectancy is under 45 years, and about a quarter of children
don't live to see their fifth birthday. Only one in four adults can read or
write.

Iraq

It is a measure of just how bad was the mayhem unleashed by the 2003 invasion
that the present reduction of daily sectarian attacks to an average of 14 is
regarded as some sort of triumph. But the years-long chaos, bloodshed and
breakdown of civil society - only now being slowly rectified - have killed
somewhere around 126,000 civilians (the Watson Institute's estimate). Those who
survived no longer live in a totalitarian state, and there are open, if deeply
flawed, elections. But the neocons' idea that Iraq would become a beacon of
democracy in the region has remained a naive pipe dream. It is in other
countries that pressure for real change has come, and it has come from the
streets, not as a US import.

Al-Qa'ida

Ten years ago this morning, no one knew if the 9/11 attacks were the
catastrophic opening bombardments in a constant state of guerrilla war writ
horrifically large, or two dozen murderous terrorists who got lucky. Suddenly,
al-Qa'ida was credited with the power to bring the developed world to its knees.
Despite Bali, Madrid and London, that has not happened - partly because of
resources and effort applied to prevent it, partly because of the haphazard
nature of al-Qa'ida. And, today, Bin Laden is dead. Sighs of relief would be
absurdly premature, and what goes unacknowledged in the West is that most people
killed by al-Qa'ida (and there are thousands) are Muslim.

The Muslim world

If the 9/11 attacks were conducted on the premise that the US was antagonistic
towards Muslims, the country's reactions to the atrocity have gone a long way
towards proving that thesis in the eyes of millions of Muslims. The wars,
tortures, drone attacks, suspicion that Arab oil was a major motivator and
continued support for Israel have all made relations with the Muslim world
poorer, despite President Barack Obama's more intelligent and emollient words.
Nothing shows this more clearly than relations with Pakistan, ostensibly an ally
in the "war on terror", but, in reality, a dysfunctional nuclear state where
many are opposed to the US and all its works. A survey of Pakistanis in June by
the Pew Research Center found that 69 per cent saw the US as an enemy.

Security

Airline passengers now have waits of up to two hours, control on liquids over
100ml entering the plane, short-term bans on hand luggage, body scans and the
removal of shoes as part of security checks. Entering offices is no longer a
matter of breezing past reception, but proving your ID, and visa restrictions
abound. By 2008, 45 countries had introduced biometric passports and 100 million
had been issued globally. Many planes are now bullet proof, with locked cockpit
doors to secure the pilot and flight crew.

Britain

Wars in Afghanistan and Iraq have cost the lives of 559 service personnel, and
opened deep divisions back home. The political debate - within and between
parties - has been disfigured by the wars. Critics claim they have made Britain
a terror target, evidenced by the 7/7 attacks, several foiled plots and the
intelligence services' repeated warnings about the threat from radicalised young
British Muslims. Campaigners maintain the post-9/11 climate allowed a clampdown
on civil liberties - including control orders, enhanced detention powers and
identity cards - which has not yet receded.

World economy

The West had spluttered into a post-dotcom downturn by 2001, but 11 September is
blamed for accelerating the decline of the US and the world economy. Several
analysts claim the response to 9/11 contributed to the global credit boom that
eventually started the catastrophic credit-crunch recession years later. But
easy credit and the bonus-fuelled gambles of investment bankers inflicted far
more damage to economies than Bin Laden ever did.

David Randall, Brian Brady and Nalini Sivathasan

Flight 93 memorial

Former US presidents George W Bush and Bill Clinton yesterday helped to dedicate
a memorial in honour of passengers and air crew who fought back against 9/11
hijackers.

The Flight 93 National Memorial marks the spot where passengers and crew foiled
the attack on Washington DC 10 years ago. They stormed the cockpit to try to
regain control from four terrorists, but the Boeing 757 crashed in a field.
There were no survivors. The memorial is part of a new 1,500-acre national park
in Shanksville, Pennsylvania.

More than 4,000 people, including relatives of those on board the United
Airlines flight, listened to Mr Bush say the fightback was "one of the most
courageous acts in American history". Mr Clinton said the 40 who fought the
hijackers had given "the entire country an incalculable gift".

Richard Osley

LOAD-DATE: September 14, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication


                  Copyright 2011 Independent News & Media plc
                              All Rights Reserved

                              22 of 331 DOCUMENTS



                                      ITN

                           September 11, 2011 Sunday

Arrests in suspected terror attack in Sweden

LENGTH: 129  words


Sweden's National Security Service has said it had arrested four people on
suspicion of planning a terror attack on Gothenburg.

Sweden's National Security Service (SAPO) says it has arrested four people on
suspicion of planning a terror attack on Gothenburg, the country's
second-largest city.

Police spokesman, Ulf Edberg, said the Roda Stens art exhibition arena had been
cordoned off after information they received information about a potential
threat.

He said: "We decided to clear the area because of a threat that could have
involved serious danger to life, health or extensive destruction of property."

The area was reopened at 4.00am on Sunday.

Press secretary at SAPO, Sara Kvarnstrom said: "Four people were arrested on
suspicion of the preparation of terrorist acts."

LOAD-DATE: September 11, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: 260


              Copyright 2011 Independent Television News Limited.
              Provided by Syndigate.info, an Albawaba.com company
                              All Rights Reserved

                              23 of 331 DOCUMENTS


                                Scottish Express

                           September 11, 2011 Sunday
                                   Edition 2;
                                    Scotland

Telling the children daddy would not be home was the hardest thing;
IN THE SHADOW OF 9/11 ; Maureen Maddison lost her husband and father of her
three children in the 9/11 terrorist attack on the World Trade Center. Here she
speaks to PAUL THOMPSON about how her family have coped with Simon's murder

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 902 words


TUCKED away in the basement of Maureen Maddison's basement is a punch bag with a
photo of Osama bin Laden pinned to one side. As the mastermind of the September
11 terror attacks he was one of the most recognisable faces in the world but to
Maureen's young son Kyle he was simply the "bad man who killed my daddy".

His British father Simon died when the first hijacked jet slammed into the World
Trade Center in New York. The 40-year-old had been working as a software
engineer for Cantor Fitzgerald, the company that lost 658 employees in the
attack, when American Airlines Flight 11 crashed into the North Tower.

In the years after the disaster Kyle, who was four when his father died, would
pummel the photo of Bin Laden. "It gave him something to focus on and a target
for his frustrations," says Maureen.

"It was Kyle's way of venting his anger for the hurt he felt. He would say:
'That is the man that killed my daddy.'" Bin Laden might be dead but the
memories of her son hitting the photo have come flooding back for Maureen as she
prepares for the 10th anniversary of 9/11.

It is not an occasion the 48-yearold speech therapist and her children Caileigh,
17, Kyle, 14, and Sydney, 11, have been looking forward to. Images of the
passenger jets flying into the Twin Towers only serve to bring back painful
memories.

"Telling the children that their daddy would not be coming home was the hardest
thing I have ever had to do," said Maureen.

"Caileigh and Kyle knew some planes had flown into the building where daddy
worked but they thought he might still come home. "I had to sit down with them
and tell them that their daddy was in that building and we don't know what
happened to him."

In the days after 9/11 the family held out a faint hope that Simon, who was from
Harlow, Essex, would turn up alive but 48 hours after the event she realised
there was no hope. "The children asked when daddy would be coming home and I had
to say: "I don't know." When it was apparent that Simon was dead I told them he
had gone to heaven to be with God," she says.

"Kyle seemed to accept that Simon was not ever coming home but Caileigh still
held out some hope. I told them he had gone to be with God and that we should
pray for him."

Maureen said in the days after 9/11 when she returned to the family home from
meeting officials Caileigh would look expectantly to see if her daddy was with
her. "She would look round me to see if Simon was there. It got to the point
where I would call ahead and tell Caileigh that I would be coming home alone,"
she says.

Overwhelmed by grief and struggling to understand why their father had died the
children were given counselling. Maureen also had therapy and joined support
groups made up of other women who had been widowed on 9/11. "It helped that we
were with others who were going through the same turmoil," she says.

Unlike many people, Maureen, who is American, did not watch the coverage of the
event immediately. "I spent most of my time sitting on the steps out the front
of the house. It wasn't until a fortnight later that I watched it on TV. I saw
the buildings collapse and felt sick."

While many of the relatives of victims will gather at Ground Zero today in
solemn silence, Maureen will host a uniquely British event at her home in
suburban Florham Park, New Jersey. She will be serving afternoon tea to her
children as they swap stories about their father.

"It is our way of remembering Simon, something very English. Tea, cucumber
sandwiches, scones and clotted cream," she says.

"Our children were all born in America but Simon was very proud to be English
and the children love remembering him that way. We started having English tea a
few years ago, it is our way of remembering 9/11.

"I know many others who lost loved ones are drawn to Ground Zero but we prefer
to be together, alone, as a family.

"The children take out things that belonged to Simon and we sit down and talk
about him. Kyle has his ski jacket, there will be photos of Simon water-skiing
and a bottle of Stella Artois lager which was his favourite.

This year the Maddisons will be joined by Liz Collins, Simon's elder sister, who
has flown over from her home in Horsham, West Sussex, to take part in the
memorial.

Two months after the fateful attacks Maureen attended a memorial service at
Westminster Abbey. Her two eldest children were chosen to present the posy to
the Queen that she laid at the Memorial To Innocent Victims.

MAUREEN, who was pictured kissing a white rose before laying it on the memorial
in a poignant gesture, also met Prince Charles, whom she says was a great source
of comfort. "Being at that ceremony was so important to us, particularly the
children," she says.

"I was able to say to them: 'Your daddy was so important the Queen is at a
memorial service for him.' "Prince Charles knew what it was like for a child to
lose a parent and was very compassionate. He invited us to Highgrove."

Maureen says she knew 48 hours after her husband went missing that she would
have to forge a new life on her own.

"Two days after 9/11 I dreamed that Simon walked back into the house.

"He told me everything was going to be okay and that he loved the children.

"When I analysed the dream afterwards I really felt it was Simon telling me he
was gone and that I had to continue on and look after the children.

"There are so many 'what ifs' that go round in my mind but I never stop thinking
about him."

LOAD-DATE: September 11, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: TRAGEDY: Maureen Maddison with her daughter Sydney laying a wreath in
London in 2001 and with Simon and children Caileigh, Kyle and Sydney
Picture: TAYLOR JEWELL/Splash

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: SXPscot


                       Copyright 2011 Express Newspapers
                              All Rights Reserved

                              24 of 331 DOCUMENTS



                                  Sunday Life

                               September 11, 2011
                                  Main Edition

day the world changed;
US on state of high alert on anniversary of terror attacks

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 488 words


The President made his appeal on the eve of today's 10th anniversary of the
al-Qaida suicide attacks which claimed nearly 3,000 lives in New York,
Washington DC and Pennsylvania.

"The terrorists who attacked us that September morning are no match for the
character of our people, the resilience of our nation or the endurance of our
values," the President said yesterday.

"We're doing everything in our power to protect our people," he said. "And no
matter what comes our way, as a resilient nation, we will carry on."

Americans were earlier put on high alert by Secretary of State Hilary Clinton
who warned there was "credible" evidence that al-Qaida was plotting attacks to
mark the 9/11 anniversary.

Bomb-sniffing dogs were deployed in the Washington DC subway and the police
searched vehicles at New York's Brooklyn Bridge yesterday amid fears of car and
truck bomb attacks.

Mrs Clinton urged Americans to be the "eyes and ears of vigilance".

She said there had been a "specific, credible but unconfirmed report" of an
attempt to target New York and Washington DC.

US officials said a CIA informant had told them of a plan involving three men of
Arab descent, two of whom could be American citizens and already in the country.
They had apparently been instructed to set off a car or truck bomb in Washington
or New York City.

American authorities had been warned of the plot, supposedly ordered by Ayman al
Zawahiri, the man who replaced Osama bin Laden as head of al-Qaida.

Security has been stepped up in both cities ahead of a series of events to mark
the 2001 attacks in which nearly 3,000 people died in four suicide attacks by
terrorists who hi-jacked passenger jets.

President Obama is scheduled today to visit New York City, Shanksville,
Pennsylvania, and the Pentagon -- the sites where hijacked planes struck 10
years ago.

In his weekly address, Mr Obama sought a balance between remembering and moving
forward. He also tried to summon the feeling of unity that existed after
terrorists killed nearly 3,000 people.

"They wanted to deprive us of the unity that defines us as a people. But we will
not succumb to division or suspicion," he said.

"We are Americans, and we are stronger and safer when we stay true to the
values, freedoms and diversity that make us unique among nations."

Meanwhile former British Prime Minister Tony Blair yesterday denied that his
government's response to 9/11 helped to radicalise extremist Muslim factions.

He said it was "deeply naive" to blame the approach taken by the West, adding it
was time to drop "this wretched posture of apology and defeatism".

CAPTION: DECLARATION OF WAR: The second plane hits the Twin Towers - the moment
the world knew terrorists had declared war on the WestPOIGNANT: Ground
ZeroADDRESS: President Barack Obama spoke to nationUS PRESIDENT Barack Obama
last night made a call for national unity as Americans prepared to commemorate
the September 11 terror attacks of 2001.

LOAD-DATE: September 11, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: SL


                  Copyright 2011 Belfast Telegraph Newspapers
                              All Rights Reserved

                              25 of 331 DOCUMENTS


                                Sunday Sun (UK)

                               September 11, 2011
                                  1st Edition

'I had hatred in my heart but fought racism with politics';
How North Muslims responded to 9/11 attacks  IN the wake of September 11 attacks
on the USA, the War on Terror was declared, its primary target being the Islamic
fundamentalist group Al Qaeda. With today marking the 10th anniversary of the
terrorist atrocity, we look at the impace onaffected the Muslim community in the
North of England. MIKE KELLY reports.

BYLINE: MIKE KELLY

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 741 words


MOST people remember where they were when news came through of the World Trade
Center attacks in New York and Dipu Ahad was no different.

He was working on a project for Gateshead council next door to a caretaker's
office who came out of the room and beckoned Dipu to join him.

"The TV was on and he said 'come and see this, there's been a terrorist
attack'," said Mr Ahad. "The first plane had crashed into the World Trade Center
and while watching the second plane crashed into the building. To be honest I
can still remember that day. It was an eerie, odd and scary sight."

He said he had tears in his eyes imagining the people already dead, or about to
die, as the structure burst into flame. His feeling turned to dread when it was
reported the attacks were believed to have been carried out by Al Qaeda, the
Islamic fundamentalist terror group.

"I knew then things were about to change and it was going to be very hard for
Muslims," he said.

On that morning 19 Al Qaeda terrorists hijacked four passenger jets. As well as
the suicide attacks on the twin towers of the World Trade Center, a third plane
was crashed into the Pentagon - the headquarters of the US Department of Defense
- in Arlington, Virginia.

Meanwhile the fourth which was believed to be heading either for the US
President's residence, the White House, or the Capitol Building, both in
Washington DC, crashed into a field near Shankville, Pennsylvania, when
passengers attempted to take control of it. In all nearly 3,000 people died.

Mr Ahad, now a Newcastle City Councillor, said: "What these few terrorists did
was make it hard for the whole of the Muslim community.

You were left feeling paranoid, the looks you got from people thinking you were
a terrorist just because you were a Muslim."

And, he revealed, the scrutiny they had from the security services and police
was intense over the forthcoming years. "I was driving from Lancashire to
Newcastle and I was stopped by Special Branch. They told me I had been stopped
because they were doing checks on Muslims. I told myself not to get angry
because they were just doing their job."

"And it wasn't just in Britain," he said. After a trip to China with friends and
fellow Muslims, they were travelling back to England via Schipol airport in
Amsterdam when it was announced their flight was being delayed because of a bomb
alert.

"A few of my friends had beards. Straight away people started looking at us and
moving away. The paranoia has made people fearful of travelling." He also
revealed another knock-on effect. "If anybody wants to open a Muslim school, a
faith school, there is a lot more security because they are worried what you are
teaching the kids."

The pressure of you're not a terrorist the colour of your skin religion took its
toll. were pushed towards turning the pressure and suspicion induced September
11 attacks 7 bombings in London into a self fulfilling about the 'growing Muslim
threat'.

"I could have taken a different direction," Mr Ahad admitted candidly. "I had
hatred in my heart."

Instead he continued in politics, changing direction. Originally he wanted to
combat 'racism' in general, then he set out to fight intolerance and help
educate the community.

"A lot of young people think Islam is spread by the sword. I know a lot of young
people who unfortunately have these views. Look at history and it will tell you
it wasn't. Suicide bombings are totally forbidden. There's a lot of education
needed both ways. We need to work with young people in schools."

He added: "We've got to talk about Muslim extremism and at the same time look at
other forms of extremism - it has many faces."

Since September 11 right wing groups like the British National Party and
latterly the English Defence League have taken great political advantage of the
attacks.

Mr Ahad praises the work already done in to Islamophobia, both by and the
police. But, of still an awful lot more to the Muslim community to speaking to
Mosques in the observe a minute's silence September 11 today.

The Muslim community a bigger role. As a Muslim important for the community to
come out and really condemn it. Show we're untied in condemning terrorim."
However it is a two way street. He said: "The vast majority of the Muslim
community is very hard working. It's been here since the 1950s and 1960s. But
because of what's happened we don't have the freedom we used to before. This is
our country too."

LOAD-DATE: September 11, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:  TEARS: Dipu Ahad

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: ss


                           Copyright 2011 MGN Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              26 of 331 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                     September 11, 2011 Sunday 4:56 PM GMT

September 11: US falls silent to mark 10th anniversary of 9/11;
The commemoration of the 10th anniversary of the 9/11 terrorist attacks have
begun, led by President Barack Obama, with the rollcall of the dead read out
during a ceremony in New York.

BYLINE: By Andy Bloxham in London, and Philip Sherwell in New York

LENGTH: 1410 words


President Obama joined former President George W Bush, both shielded behind
bulletproof glass screens, and quoted from the Bible, reading from Psalm 46:4.

Michael Bloomberg, the mayor of New York, then quoted Shakespeare, saying: "Let
us not measure our sorrow by their worth, for then it will have no end."

The names of the dead then began to be read aloud by relatives of some of the
victims, despite the minor hiccup of feedback on the microphones and echoes
around the former site of the Twin Towers.

The readers had the opportunity to add a personal tribute to their relative,
some even held up photographs of their loved ones, and this formed the most
poignant part of the service.

The simple ceremony - without any speeches - built a cumulative weight of loss
as the names were counted and generated a sense of the ongoing sadness which has
affected so many.

The reactions among the thousands of people gathered at the memorial varied
between grim dignity and quiet grief.

Moments earlier, New York's 650lb Bell of Hope, which hangs near Ground Zero in
St Paul's Chapel, the rest centre for 9/11 rescue workers, sounded at 8.46am New
York time, the moment of the first impact.

A minute's silence was observed from that point until the readings.

It was one of a series of ceremonies to be held at the sites of the attacks.

Later in the day, similar memorials will take place at the Pentagon and in a
field in Pennslyvania where the fourth hijacked plane crashed.

The remembrance takes place in the shadow of the "credible" threat of a terror
attack on the mainland US as other ceremonies begin to take place around the
globe.

In the UK, dignitaries and families of those who died will attend the September
11 memorial garden next to the American Embassy in Grosvenor Square, London.

A service was held at St Paul's Cathedral                      this morning and
another will be held at Westminster Abbey this evening.

Some families of British 9/11 victims attended an early morning service of
"remembrance and reconciliation" in the Grosvenor Chapel in central London,
which is known as the "American Church" after it became a place of worship for
US soldiers in the Second World War.

Courtney Cowart, a survivor who was nearly buried alive when the north tower of
the World Trade Center collapsed on top of her, described her fears when she
returned to the site for a church service five days later.

"I was terrified. We were dwarfed by immense wreckage looming around us. It was
a landscape drained of all colour," she told the congregation.

Barbara Stephenson, the Deputy US ambassador to Britain, lit a candle during the
service to symbolise the banishment of darkness and everlasting life.

In Kabul, the US ambassador, Ryan Crocker, said America must remain in
Afghanistan "for the long haul".

Ambassador Crocker, who flew into New York after hearing of the attacks and saw
both towers fall, said: "For me the last 10 years have always been about 9/11. I
keep in my office in a small frame the boarding pass I have from that flight.

"I will never forget what happened on that day and I will never give up on my
commitment to do everything I can to ensure 9/11 never happens again."

The ceremonies ranged from the formal and grand to the intimate memorial of a
single grieving mother.

In Malaysia, Pathmawathy Navaratnam wished her dead son: "Good morning."
Vijayashanker Paramsothy, a 23-year-old financial analyst, was killed in the
attacks on New York.

His mother said: "He is my sunshine. He has lived life to the fullest, but I
can't accept that he is not here anymore. I am still living, but I am dead
inside."

In the northeastern Indian state of Manipur, 100 family members and close
friends of Jupiter Yambem gathered to remember the manager of the Roof of the
World restaurant in the World Trade Center.

Players from the American Eagles rugby team were among the first to mark the
anniversary at a memorial service in the town of New Plymouth in New Zealand.

The players, who are participating in the Rugby World Cup tournament, listened
to a speech by David Huebner, the US ambassador, whose brother Rick survived the
attacks.

In Japan, families gathered in Tokyo to pay their respects to the 23 Fuji Bank
employees who never made it out of their World Trade Center office. A dozen of
the workers who died were Japanese.

Security measures in the two US cities were tightened following uncorroborated
but "credible" intelligence suggesting that the leaders of al Qaida could have
dispatched operatives into the US to set off a lorry bomb.

Metal barriers were mounted along roads surrounding the site of the World Trade
Center in lower Manhattan, while police have been ordered to patrol bridges
looking for suspect vehicles.

In his weekly radio address, President Barack Obama yesterday called for
national unity as he attempted to reassure the nation ahead of the anniversary
of the worst attacks the country's mainland has ever experienced.

President Obama said: "We are doing everything in our power to protect our
people. And no matter what comes our way, as a resilient nation, we will carry
on.

"The terrorists who attacked us that September morning are no match for the
character of our people, the resilience of our nation or the endurance of our
values."

Details of the latest alleged terrorist plot are sketchy but US officials said a
CIA informant had told them of a plan involving three men of Arab descent, two
of whom could be American citizens and already in the country.

The third suspect is thought to have travelled to Europe but not entered the US.

They had been instructed to set off a car or lorry bomb in Washington or New
York City.

American authorities had been warned of the plot, supposedly ordered by Ayman al
Zawahiri, the man who replaced Osama bin Laden as head of the al Qaida terrorist
network.

It is understood that intelligence agencies in the US have been unable to
corroborate the informant's claims.

The ceremonies in New York began on Saturday, as thousands of local residents,
for whom 9/11 was an attack on their home as well as on a symbol of American
might, linked hands with visitors from across the country and around the world
as the nation began an emotionally-exhausting weekend of ceremonies and services
marking the 10th anniversary of the atrocities.

Rising in front of them as they reached out to friends, neighbours and
strangers, was the new World Trade Center tower, soaring into the void left that
day and destined to be America's tallest building.

Ten years ago on September 11, Laura Morrison fled her home a few blocks from
the WTC with her two-year-old daughter in a push-chair along the same footpath
where they gathered on Saturday, with the Statue of Liberty symbol of freedom
standing tall and proud in the harbour behind them.

She was pregnant at the time with her second child. Now they returned as a
family - Mrs Morrison, her husband Scott, and their daughters Zoe, 12 and Jamie,
nine. "We live here, we work here, we are raising our family here and we are not
going to be driven away," she said.

Their defiance was only deepened, they said, by threat of another al-Qaeda
attack

President Bush, the country's leader at the time of the attacks but who has
maintained a low profile since leaving office, took centre stage in two
ceremonies yesterday.

At the Pentagon, he led a brief and sombre silent tribute to the 184 people
killed when a hijacked plane ploughed into the defence headquarters just outside
Washington. Joined by his wife, Laura, he laid a wreath of white flowers by the
memorial stone embedded in the wall where the plane struck.

Mr Bush later joined Bill Clinton, the former president, and Vice-President Joe
Biden at a ceremony dedicating the marble "wall of names" near Shanksville,
Pennsylvania. It was there that an onboard rebellion by passengers and flight
crew foiled plans by the hijackers of United 93 to fly into the US Capitol or
the White House, forcing them down instead into a remote field.

The Foreign Office urged British citizens in America to be vigilant in the light
of the latest threat.

The 9/11 attacks claimed the lives of 2,977 innocent people, making them the
deadliest terrorist atrocity America has ever experienced.

Some 2,753 died in New York, 184 in Washington and 40 in Pennsylvania. Among the
dead were 343 firefighters, 37 police officers, two FBI officers and one US
secret service agent.

LOAD-DATE: January 20, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTNS


                  Copyright 2011 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              27 of 331 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                     September 11, 2011 Sunday 4:17 PM GMT

Services across the world commemorate 9/11 anniversary;
Memorial services to remember those killed in the terrorist attacks of September
11 are held in countries around the world.

LENGTH: 210 words


Follow live coverage from New York, Washington and around the world as
remembrance ceremonies are held to mark the 10th anniversary of the September 11
attacks

An American flag inscribed with the names of the September 11 victims was raised
at dawn at a US base in Afghanistan. Later on Sunday, a memorial service was
held at the US Embassy in Kabul.

Pope Benedict prayed for the victims of the September 11 attacks during a visit
to Adriatic city of Ancona, and appealed to those with grievances to resist the
temptation to resort to hate and violence to resolve their problems.

In Tokyo, relatives of Japanese citizens killed in the 9/11 attacks paid their
respects at a memorial at the headquarters of a bank on Sunday.

All 23 employees of Fuji Bank - now incorporated into the Mizuho banking group -
were killed in their offices at the twin towers in New York City.

In New Zealand, members of the American rugby union team - there for the Rugby
World Cup - attended a memorial ceremony at St Andrew's Presbyterian church in
the North Island town of New Plymouth

Similar events have taken place in Europe, with church services in Germany and
in London, at St Paul's Cathedral.

LOAD-DATE: January 20, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTNS


                  Copyright 2011 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              28 of 331 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                     September 11, 2011 Sunday 12:26 PM GMT

Swedish police arrest four over suspected terror attack day before 9/11
anniversary;
Swedish Police have arrested four people on suspicion of planning a terror
attack in Sweden's second city of Gothenburg to mark the eve of the 9/11
anniversary.

BYLINE: By Richard Orange in Malmo

LENGTH: 299 words


Swedish police made the arrests early on Sunday morning after evacuating 400
people from the opening party of the city's arts festival.

"I can confirm that four people have been arrested," Sara Kvarnström, press
officer of the Swedish Security Services (Säpo), told the Daily Telegraph. "When
there's concrete information indicating a serious threat we have to act so as
not to risk lives."

Ulrika Sten, the project manager for the International Biennial for Contemporary
Art said the police had swooped late on Saturday night.

"The police came down to the opening party at about twelve and they told us to
evacuate," she said. "The only thing that the police have told us is that there
was a threat towards the arts centre. We don't know if the people arrested were
inside at the opening or just outside on the street."

She said that the Roda Sten arts centre, where the event was held, had opened on
Sunday morning as usual.

Ms Kvarnström said that, due to the preliminary stage of the investigation,
police could not give names of those arrested, disclose the nature of the
planned attack, or give details of the intelligence on which they were acting.

Sweden's rising Muslim population has led to fears the country could become a
target for extremists, particularly since Lars Vilks, a Swedish cartoonist,
published drawings of the prophet Muhammad in 2007.

About 14.3% of population are foreign-born and about 5% are Muslim.

The country increased its terror threat level to "elevated" last October, and
withstood its first major act of Islamic terrorism last December, when Taimour
Abdulwahab blew himself up in downtown Stockholm. No one was harmed but himself.

Ms Sten refused to speculate on whether any of the art being displayed during
the biennial would be likely to inflame Muslim sentiment.

LOAD-DATE: January 20, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTNS


                  Copyright 2011 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              29 of 331 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                     September 11, 2011 Sunday 11:25 AM GMT

Memorials begin as America remembers 9/11;
Presidents present and past lead the country in memory of the thousands of lives
lost in the terrorist attacks of September 11 at services in New York,
Pennsylvania and the Pentagon.

LENGTH: 309 words


Follow live coverage from New York, Washington and around the world as
remembrance ceremonies are held to mark the 10th anniversary of the September 11
attacks

President Bush, the country's leader at the time of the attacks but who has
maintained a low profile since leaving office, took centre stage in two
ceremonies yesterday.

At the Pentagon, he led a brief and sombre silent tribute to the 184 people
killed when a hijacked plane ploughed into the defence headquarters just outside
Washington. Joined by his wife, Laura, he laid a wreath of white flowers by the
memorial stone embedded in the wall where the plane struck.

Mr Bush later joined Bill Clinton, the former president, and Vice-President Joe
Biden at a ceremony dedicating the marble "wall of names" near Shanksville,
Pennsylvania. It was there that an on-board rebellion by passengers and flight
crew foiled plans by the hijackers of United 93 to fly into the US Capitol or
the White House, forcing them down instead into a remote field.

Meanwhile current President Barack Obama and First Lady Michelle Obama marked
the day before the anniversary with a visit to Arlington National Cemetery.
There they paid silent tribute to the US soldiers who have fallen in the Iraq
and Afghanistan, conflicts brought about since 9/11 to prevent any such attack
from occurring again.

The Obamas later volunteered in a Washington soup kitchen in order to promote a
lasting notion that September 11 be held up as a day national service.

In New York, residents came together in Lower Manhattan to hold hands to
commemorate those lost in the atrocities, whilst candles were lit and two beams
of light shone skywards from where the twin towers once stood at Ground Zero as
darkness fell on the eve on the tenth anniversary.

LOAD-DATE: January 20, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTNS


                  Copyright 2011 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              30 of 331 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                     September 11, 2011 Sunday 10:42 AM GMT

Memorials begin as America remembers 9/11;
Presidents present and past lead the country in memory of the thousands of lives
lost in the terrorist attacks of September 11 at services in New York,
Pennsylvania and the Pentagon.

LENGTH: 268 words


President Bush, the country's leader at the time of the attacks but who has
maintained a low profile since leaving office, took centre stage in two
ceremonies yesterday.

At the Pentagon, he led a brief and sombre silent tribute to the 184 people
killed when a hijacked plane ploughed into the defence headquarters just outside
Washington. Joined by his wife, Laura, he laid a wreath of white flowers by the
memorial stone embedded in the wall where the plane struck.

Mr Bush later joined Bill Clinton, the former president, and Vice-President Joe
Biden at a ceremony dedicating the marble "wall of names" near Shanksville,
Pennsylvania. It was there that an on-board rebellion by passengers and flight
crew foiled plans by the hijackers of United 93 to fly into the US Capitol or
the White House, forcing them down instead into a remote field.

Meanwhile current President Barack Obama and First Lady Michelle Obama marked
the day before the anniversary with a visit to Arlington National Cemetery.
There they paid silent tribute to the US soldiers who have fallen in the Iraq
and Afghanistan, conflicts brought about since 9/11 to prevent any such attack
from occurring again.

The Obamas later volunteered in a Washington soup kitchen in order to promote a
lasting notion that September 11 be held up as a day national service.

In New York, residents came together in Lower Manhattan to hold hands to
commemorate those lost in the atrocities, whilst candles were lit and two beams
of light shone skywards from where the twin towers once stood at Ground Zero as
darkness fell on the eve on the tenth anniversary.

LOAD-DATE: January 20, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTNS


                  Copyright 2011 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              31 of 331 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                     September 11, 2011 Sunday 10:10 AM GMT

September 11: America marks 10th anniversary of 9/11;
America is preparing to mark the 10th anniversary of the 9/11 terrorist attacks,
with events taking place across the globe to remember the worst attack on US
soil in history.

BYLINE: By Philip Sherwell in New York, and Andy Bloxham in London

LENGTH: 1271 words


Thousands will gather at ceremonies at the site of the destroyed World Trade
Center towers, at the Pentagon, and in a field in Pennslyvania where the fourth
hijacked plane crashed.

President Barack Obama and former president George Bush, who was leading the
country at the time, will lead the remembrances for the 2,977 people who died.

New York's 650lb Bell of Hope, which hangs near Ground Zero in St Paul's Chapel,
the rest centre for 9/11 rescue workers, will sound at 8.46am New York time, the
moment of the first impact.

The two presidents will join victims' families to hear the reading of the names
of those who died as bells toll across the city and President Obama will also
visit the other two sites.

The remembrance takes place in the shadow of the "credible" threat of a terror
attack on the mainland US as other ceremonies begin to take place around the
globe.

In the UK, dignitaries and families of those who died will attend the September
11 memorial garden next to the American Embassy in Grosvenor Square, London.

A service will be held at St Paul's Cathedral this morning and at Westminster
Abbey this evening.

Some families of British 9/11 victims attended an early morning service of
"remembrance and reconciliation" in the Grosvenor Chapel in central London,
which is known as the "American Church" after it became a place of worship for
US soldiers in the Second World War.

Courtney Cowart, a survivor who was nearly buried alive when the north tower of
the World Trade Center collapsed on top of her, described her fears when she
returned to the site for a church service five days later.

"I was terrified. We were dwarfed by immense wreckage looming around us. It was
a landscape drained of all colour," she told the congregation.

Barbara Stephenson, the Deputy US ambassador to Britain, lit a candle during the
service to symbolise the banishment of darkness and everlasting life.

In Kabul, the US ambassador, Ryan Crocker, said America must remain in
Afghanistan "for the long haul".

Ambassador Crocker, who flew into New York after hearing of the attacks and saw
both towers fall, said: "For me the last 10 years have always been about 9/11. I
keep in my office in a small frame the boarding pass I have from that flight.

"I will never forget what happened on that day and I will never give up on my
commitment to do everything I can to ensure 9/11 never happens again."

The ceremonies ranged from the formal and grand to the intimate memorial of a
single grieving mother.

In Malaysia, Pathmawathy Navaratnam wished her dead son: "Good morning."
Vijayashanker Paramsothy, a 23-year-old financial analyst, was killed in the
attacks on New York.

His mother said: "He is my sunshine. He has lived life to the fullest, but I
can't accept that he is not here anymore. I am still living, but I am dead
inside."

In the northeastern Indian state of Manipur, 100 family members and close
friends of Jupiter Yambem gathered to remember the manager of the Roof of the
World restaurant in the World Trade Center.

Players from the American Eagles rugby team were among the first to mark the
anniversary at a memorial service in the town of New Plymouth in New Zealand.

The players, who are participating in the Rugby World Cup tournament, listened
to a speech by David Huebner, the US ambassador, whose brother Rick survived the
attacks.

In Japan, families gathered in Tokyo to pay their respects to the 23 Fuji Bank
employees who never made it out of their World Trade Center office. A dozen of
the workers who died were Japanese.

Security measures in the two US cities were tightened following uncorroborated
but "credible" intelligence suggesting that the leaders of al Qaida could have
dispatched operatives into the US to set off a lorry bomb.

Metal barriers were mounted along roads surrounding the site of the World Trade
Center in lower Manhattan, while police have been ordered to patrol bridges
looking for suspect vehicles.

In his weekly radio address, President Barack Obama yesterday called for
national unity as he attempted to reassure the nation ahead of the anniversary
of the worst attacks the country's mainland has ever experienced.

President Obama said: "We are doing everything in our power to protect our
people. And no matter what comes our way, as a resilient nation, we will carry
on.

"The terrorists who attacked us that September morning are no match for the
character of our people, the resilience of our nation or the endurance of our
values."

Details of the latest alleged terrorist plot are sketchy but US officials said a
CIA informant had told them of a plan involving three men of Arab descent, two
of whom could be American citizens and already in the country.

The third suspect is thought to have travelled to Europe but not entered the US.

They had been instructed to set off a car or lorry bomb in Washington or New
York City.

American authorities had been warned of the plot, supposedly ordered by Ayman al
Zawahiri, the man who replaced Osama bin Laden as head of the al Qaida terrorist
network.

It is understood that intelligence agencies in the US have been unable to
corroborate the informant's claims.

The ceremonies in New York began on Saturday, as thousands of local residents,
for whom 9/11 was an attack on their home as well as on a symbol of American
might, linked hands with visitors from across the country and around the world
as the nation began an emotionally-exhausting weekend of ceremonies and services
marking the 10th anniversary of the atrocities.

Rising in front of them as they reached out to friends, neighbours and
strangers, was the new World Trade Center tower, soaring into the void left that
day and destined to be America's tallest building.

Ten years ago on September 11, Laura Morrison fled her home a few blocks from
the WTC with her two-year-old daughter in a push-chair along the same footpath
where they gathered on Saturday, with the Statue of Liberty symbol of freedom
standing tall and proud in the harbour behind them.

She was pregnant at the time with her second child. Now they returned as a
family - Mrs Morrison, her husband Scott, and their daughters Zoe, 12 and Jamie,
nine. "We live here, we work here, we are raising our family here and we are not
going to be driven away," she said.

Their defiance was only deepened, they said, by threat of another al-Qaeda
attack

President Bush, the country's leader at the time of the attacks but who has
maintained a low profile since leaving office, took centre stage in two
ceremonies yesterday.

At the Pentagon, he led a brief and sombre silent tribute to the 184 people
killed when a hijacked plane ploughed into the defence headquarters just outside
Washington. Joined by his wife, Laura, he laid a wreath of white flowers by the
memorial stone embedded in the wall where the plane struck.

Mr Bush later joined Bill Clinton, the former president, and Vice-President Joe
Biden at a ceremony dedicating the marble "wall of names" near Shanksville,
Pennsylvania. It was there that an onboard rebellion by passengers and flight
crew foiled plans by the hijackers of United 93 to fly into the US Capitol or
the White House, forcing them down instead into a remote field.

The Foreign Office urged British citizens in America to be vigilant in the light
of the latest threat.

The 9/11 attacks claimed the lives of 2,977 innocent people, making them the
deadliest terrorist atrocity America has ever experienced.

Some 2,753 died in New York, 184 in Washington and 40 in Pennsylvania. Among the
dead were 343 firefighters, 37 police officers, two FBI officers and one US
secret service agent.

LOAD-DATE: January 20, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTNS


                  Copyright 2011 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              32 of 331 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                     September 11, 2011 Sunday 9:06 AM GMT

September 11: Terror alert high as America marks 9/11 anniversary;
New York and Washington are on high alert against the threat of a terrorist
attack as Americans mark the 10th anniversary of the September 11 attacks.

BYLINE: By Philip Sherwell in New York, and Andy Bloxham in London

LENGTH: 1086 words


Ceremonies have taken place in Kabul, among soldiers from the US and Britain
fighting in Afghanistan, and families and friends of those killed in the
atrocity, who included 67 Britons, will remember the atrocity at events around
the globe.

The main event in the UK will be held at the September 11 memorial garden next
to the American Embassy in Grosvenor Square, London.

Security measures in the two US cities were tightened following uncorroborated
but "credible" intelligence suggesting that the leaders of al Qaida could have
dispatched operatives into the US to set off a lorry bomb.

Metal barriers were mounted along roads surrounding the site of the World Trade
Center in lower Manhattan, while police have been ordered to patrol bridges
looking for suspect vehicles.

In his weekly radio address, President Barack Obama yesterday called for
national unity as he attempted to reassure the nation ahead of the anniversary
of the worst attacks the country's mainland has ever experienced.

President Obama said: "We are doing everything in our power to protect our
people. And no matter what comes our way, as a resilient nation, we will carry
on.

"The terrorists who attacked us that September morning are no match for the
character of our people, the resilience of our nation or the endurance of our
values."

Details of the latest alleged terrorist plot are sketchy but US officials said a
CIA informant had told them of a plan involving three men of Arab descent, two
of whom could be American citizens and already in the country.

The third suspect is thought to have travelled to Europe but not entered the US.

They had been instructed to set off a car or lorry bomb in Washington or New
York City.

American authorities had been warned of the plot, supposedly ordered by Ayman al
Zawahiri, the man who replaced Osama bin Laden as head of the al Qaida terrorist
network.

It is understood that intelligence agencies in the US have been unable to
corroborate the informant's claims.

However, dozens of memorial ceremonies will continue despite the threat.

In New York, the 650lb Bell of Hope, which hangs near Ground Zero in St Paul's
Chapel, the rest centre for 9/11 rescue workers, will sound at 8.46am New York
time, the moment of the first impact.

New Yorkers have already begun to mark the day: on Saturday, as a bell tolled at
8.46am to mark the minute that the first hijacked plane flew into the Twin
Towers, they joined hands in a human chain of support and commemoration along
the waterfront of lower Manhattan.

Thousands of local residents, for whom 9/11 was an attack on their home as well
as on a symbol of American might, linked hands with visitors from across the
country and around the world as the nation began an emotionally-exhausting
weekend of ceremonies and services marking the 10th anniversary of the
atrocities.

Rising in front of them as they reached out to friends, neighbours and
strangers, was the new World Trade Center tower, soaring into the void left that
day and destined to be America's tallest building.

Ten years ago on September 11, Laura Morrison fled her home a few blocks from
the WTC with her two-year-old daughter in a push-chair along the same footpath
where they gathered on Saturday, with the Statue of Liberty symbol of freedom
standing tall and proud in the harbour behind them.

She was pregnant at the time with her second child. Now they returned as a
family - Mrs Morrison, her husband Scott, and their daughters Zoe, 12 and Jamie,
nine. "We live here, we work here, we are raising our family here and we are not
going to be driven away," she said.

Their defiance was only deepened, they said, by threat of another al-Qaeda
attack

President George W Bush, the country's leader at the time of the attacks but who
has maintained a low profile since leaving office, took centre stage in two
ceremonies yesterday.

At the Pentagon, he led a brief and sombre silent tribute to the 184 people
killed when a hijacked plane ploughed into the defence headquarters just outside
Washington. Joined by his wife, Laura, he laid a wreath of white flowers by the
memorial stone embedded in the wall where the plane struck.

Mr Bush later joined Bill Clinton, the former president, and Vice-President Joe
Biden at a ceremony dedicating the marble "wall of names" near Shanksville,
Pennsylvania. It was there that an onboard rebellion by passengers and flight
crew foiled plans by the hijackers of United 93 to fly into the US Capitol or
the White House, forcing them down instead into a remote field.

In the ceremony in Kabul today, the US ambassador, Ryan Crocker, said America
must remain in Afghanistan "for the long haul".

Ambassador Crocker, who flew into New York after hearing of the attacks and saw
both towers fall, said: "For me the last 10 years have always been about 9/11. I
keep in my office in a small frame the boarding pass I have from that flight.

"I will never forget what happened on that day and I will never give up on my
commitment to do everything I can to ensure 9/11 never happens again."

In London, a service will be held at St Paul's Cathedral this morning and at
Westminster Abbey this evening.

Some families of British 9/11 victims attended an early morning service of
"remembrance and reconciliation" in the Grosvenor Chapel in central London,
which is known as the "American Church" after it became a place of worship for
US soldiers in the Second World War.

Courtney Cowart, a survivor who was nearly buried alive when the north tower of
the World Trade Center collapsed on top of her, described her fears when she
returned to the site for a church service five days later.

"I was terrified. We were dwarfed by immense wreckage looming around us. It was
a landscape drained of all colour," she told the congregation.

Barbara Stephenson, the Deputy US ambassador to Britain, lit a candle during the
service to symbolise the banishment of darkness and everlasting life.

The radical Islamic group Muslims Against Crusades, whose members previously
burned poppies on the anniversary of Armistice Day, planned to protest outside
the US embassy.

The Foreign Office urged British citizens in America to be vigilant in the light
of the latest threat.

The 9/11 attacks claimed the lives of 2,977 innocent people, making them the
deadliest terrorist atrocity America has ever experienced.

Some 2,753 died in New York, 184 in Washington and 40 in Pennsylvania. Among the
dead were 343 firefighters, 37 police officers, two FBI officers and one US
secret service agent.

LOAD-DATE: January 20, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTNS


                  Copyright 2011 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              33 of 331 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring Middle East - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                           September 12, 2011 Monday

''Terrorists confess'' attacking Syrian army

LENGTH: 852 words


Text of report in English by state-run Syrian news agency SANA website

["Terrorists Confess to Participating in Crimes against Army, Law-Enforcement
Members and Innocent Cit..." - SANA Headline]

Damascus, (SANA) - A number of terrorists confessed to participating in crimes
against the army, law-enforcement members and innocent citizens, in addition to
attacking public and private properties along with one of the terrorist groups
in Hims Province led by terrorist Bilal al-Kin.

In confessions aired by the Syrian TV on Sunday [11 September], terrorist Samer
Abdul-Jawad Nshewati, Mufti of Bilal al-Kin, said: "I was born in 1966, and I
studied shari'ah at Kiftaro Institute for Islamic and Humanitarian Studies. I
failed in two successive years, so I was dismissed and I worked in painting and
as a preacher at one of the mosques two weeks before Ramadan."

He added: "I went to see terrorist al-Kin in Juret al-Shayyah in Hims two weeks
before Ramadan when I heard that he is the leader of the revolution and that he
distributes money among those who follow him and fight. I saw him at the mosque
and he asked me to return the next day to a certain place to join his group and
I did that."

"I entered the house where he asked me to go and I saw four gunmen. There were
certain conditions to join the group such as swearing in the life of Bander
Prince and the life of Prince Bilal al-Kin to follow them without any objection,
and al-Kin asked me to participate in two attacks against the law-enforcement
members, the army and the security forces in Bab al-Dreab and Bab Tadmura. I
participated in the two attacks as my task was to open fire in the air to
distract the attention of the army," al-Nshewati said.

Al-Nshewati added: "The money was coming from Saudi Arabia and the group of
al-Kin consisted of about twenty gunmen who had a lot of weapons such as rifles
and very large amount of bullets."

Terrorist Abdul-Hadi Mamdouh al-Masri said "I live in Al-Siba'a neighbourhood in
Hims. In May, Ahmad Audi gave me a gun to protect the demonstrations. There were
three suspected men at Al-Siba'a bus-stop and Jasem Efara, Bilal Audi and Housam
Audi kidnapped them to sow sedition. The three men were taken to the basement of
al-Mreajeh Mosque and later they were transferred to another basement hired by
Adham al-Khabbaz."

He added: "The next day at 09:00, I visited al-Kin, and in the afternoon on the
same day, I saw Ahmad Audi and I asked him about the kidnapped young men and he
told me that they were killed and thrown in the Orates River."

He said: "A person was shot by Abdul-Mu'ain al-Zarrad and Jasem Efara near Bab
al-Siba'a Bus Garage and Ahmad Audi took his mobile phone and started to watch
the videos in it and at that time the mother of the wounded person phoned him
and Audi told her that her son's health is good and he is in the hospital. Later
the terrorist group kidnapped the wounded person from the hospital and took him
to the basement of al-Khabbaz where they killed him and they threw his body in a
trash container in al-Wadi Street."

Terrorist Anas Mohammed al-Masri said: "In July, I visited my cousin Abdul-Hadi
al-Masri and at 07:00 o'clock. Jasem Efara visited him and told my cousin that
he needs a car for a certain purpose. So Abdul-Hadi told me to go with Efara. We
headed for a charity hospital in Bab al-Siba'a from were they brought a man on a
stretcher and put him in the car trunk and they told me to return to my cousin's
house, yet they took the person to another house."

Al-Masri added: "I returned to my cousin's house and told him about what
happened. Suddenly, Efara visited us and told my cousin to go with him to the
house where they left the man and we went in my car to the house. Two men got
out of the house carrying up the same man covered with blankets and they put him
in the car trunk.. Efara told me to go to al-Wadi-al-Qala'a road in Bab
al-Siba'a and when we arrived two masked men took the body of the killed man and
disappeared for two minutes, and they returned without him and they get on the
car and Efara told me to return to my cousin's house."

Terrorist Fawaz Abdul-Karim Shoufan said: "I live in Bab al-Siba'a neighbourhood
and I work as a painter. I have participated in the demonstrations since the
beginning and when they became armed demonstrations. Ahmad Audi and Mu'ain Zarab
gave me a weapon to participate in the demonstrations and to open fire on the
security barriers at night."

Shoufan added: ''We opened fire on the barriers several times and when the
law-enforcement members entered the neighbourhood, the gunmen fled, and on the
next day, I followed them and al-Kin told me along with Bilal Hilal and Abu
Jamal Tafesh to kidnap a servant from one of the schools and he gave us three
guns and a rifle. We went to the school in a pickup car and we kidnapped him at
gunpoint, and we handed him to Al-Kin."

"On the next day, I asked about the servant and they told me that his body was
found at Vegetables Market, and I asked who killed him and they told me that
Al-Kin did it," he said.

Source: SANA news agency website, Damascus in English 12 Sep 11

LOAD-DATE: September 12, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2011 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              34 of 331 DOCUMENTS


                       BBC Monitoring Europe - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                           September 12, 2011 Monday

German criminal bureau warns of possible terrorist attacks against US facilities

LENGTH: 866 words


Text of report by German newspaper Welt am Sonntag website on 11 September

[Report by Martin Lutz: "The Fear of the Lone Operator: Two Suspicious Islamists
Were Arrested in Berlin Shortly Before 11 September. Nevertheless, the BKA Warns
That the Terrorist Danger Has Not Been Banished"]

Hydrochloric acid and cooling pads per se are not suspicious utensils. Danger is
looming, however, if two Islamists with ties to the terrorist scene stockpile
large quantities of such chemicals.

The presumed terrorists Hani N. and Samir M. have been in pretrial custody in
Berlin since Friday [9 September]. The two men, 24 and 28 years of age, are
suspected of having prepared a bombing attack. The Palestinian Hani N. had
ordered large quantities of chemicals and cooling pads - an explosive mixture
when combined.

It is no coincidence that the arrest occurred a few days before 11 September.
The Federal Office of Criminal Investigation (BKA) fears that in conjunction
with the 10th anniversary of the attacks in the United States the Islamist
terrorists could also carry out new attacks in Germany. This emerges from a
confidential letter from the BKA to federal ministries and security authorities
dated 25 August that is available to Welt am Sonntag. The secret paper entitled
"Assessment of the Threat of Islamist Terrorism as of 11 September 2011" states
that there are serious considerations of the terrorist network Al-Qa'idah "in
which, among other things, attacks against US interests are desirable as near as
possible to the 10th anniversary of the attacks on 11 September 2001."
Al-Qa'idah has thereby focused in particular on air traffic "within, to, or from
the United States."

These considerations are "currently known" to the Federal Office for
Constitutional Protection in Cologne, states the paper stamped "For Official Use
Only." With this, BKA President Joerg Ziercke is also covering himself with
respect to Federal Interior Minister Hans-Peter Friedrich (CSU) [Christian
Social Union]. If something should happen in connection with 11 September,
politics could not accuse Ziercke of not warning of attacks in Germany. To be
sure, the BKA does not know of any indications of specific attack plans.
Nevertheless, in the assessment of the authority, radicalized individuals could
take the anniversary as a reason for spontaneous terrorist actions, the paper
warns. Accordingly, "US installations and interests throughout Germany" are
endangered. For them, it is necessary to assume "a temporary increase in the
abstract threat situation on 11 September 2011 and near this date."

The BKA speaks in principle of an "intensified threat" through international
terrorism. Accordingly, Al-Qa'idah is planning attacks against Western and
especially "against German interests."

After the killing of Usamah Bin-Ladin, Al-Qa'idah could now increasingly be
striving "to time possibly existing terrorist plans for 11 September 2011." With
this, Al-Qa'idah could attempt "to demonstrate its own ability to act and to
orchestrate such an attack event as revenge for the killing of Bin Ladin."

Al-Qa'idah is also attempting to recruit young men in the Western societies in
which they have grown up. They then wind up their place of residence and their
life in the West and change totally. Then they are usually trained as assassins
in terrorist camps in the Afghan-Pakistan border region. These fighters leave
behind a trail: they book flights, rent cars, and telephone with accomplices.

It is quite different with lone operators who become radicalized in Germany and
who have no previous criminal record. So it was with Arid Uka until 2 March
2011: the Kosovar shot and killed two US soldiers at the Frankfurt airport to
prevent them from going to Afghanistan - the first successful Islamist attack in
Germany.

The Islamists arrested in Berlin, on the other hand, have long been known to the
security authorities as supporters of radical groups. According to Der Spiegel,
both are said to belong to the milieu of terrorist groups. Accordingly, two
years ago, the authorities prevented Samir M. from travelling to Iran from
Berlin-Tegel Airport. He supposedly wanted to join armed groups in Afghanistan.
Reportedly the passport of the German-Lebanese was then c onfiscated. According
to Focus, the authorities came across Samir M. back in 2009 as a result of
telephone surveillance of Islamists who had left the country for terrorist camps
in Pakistan. As for his accomplice Hani N., the authorities are looking into
tips that he has already gone through training in a terrorist camp. Focus
reports that only a tip from the US intelligence service NSA put the German
authorities on the trail of the chemicals order. It is said that the NSA had
come across the order while monitoring the nodes of the online auction house
EBay.

The debate is intensifying after the arrests. The Union is calling for a
revision of data retention, whereas the FDP [Free Democratic Party] opposes
this. Lower Saxony's Interior Minister Uwe Schuenemann (CDU) [Christian
Democratic Union] proposed also using the Bundeswehr in the defence against
future terrorist dangers.

Source: Welt am Sonntag website, Hamburg, in German 11 Sep 11 p 9

LOAD-DATE: September 12, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2011 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              35 of 331 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring Middle East - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                           September 12, 2011 Monday

Saudi daily says Saudis recall terrorist attacks in kingdom on 9/11 anniversary

LENGTH: 837 words


Text of report in English by MD al-Sulami from Jeddah headlined  "On 9/11
anniversary, Saudis recall terrorist attacks in kingdom" published by Saudi
newspaper Arab News website on 12 September

On the 10th anniversary of 9/11, Saudis remembered Sunday the 2003 terrorist
attacks in the Kingdom that claimed the lives of about 350 security personnel,
citizens, Arab and Muslim expatriates as well as Westerners.

Twelve bomb explosions left more than 770 people injured. The terrorists also
randomly fired their guns at people and attacked companies and military bases.

Despite the huge losses that put the Kingdom at the top of countries most
affected by terrorism, the country was able to successfully fight terrorism
through military plans and promoting the correct Islamic ideology. It was also
able to foil a number of terrorist operations and reinforced its position as an
important partner in world efforts to combat terrorism.

The Kingdom was able to root out terrorist havens and thwarted 220 operations.
The efforts of Saudi security forces culminated in the killing of the leader of
Al-Qa'idah in the Kingdom, Fahd Al-Juwayr.

Al-Qa'idah in the Kingdom had a number of leaders who succeeded each other.
Among them was Khalid Al-Haj, who was also killed after forming four terrorist
cells.

The first cell was under the leadership of Abd-al-Aziz Al-Migrin who in turn
established five cells: three in Riyadh under Faisal Al-Dakhil and Khalid
Al-Farraj and one each in the Eastern Province under Abdallah Al-Migrin and Nayf
Al-Qahtani and in Madinah under Salih Al-Oufi. All these leaders were killed in
confrontations with Saudi security forces.

The second terrorist cell formed by Al-Haj was under the leadership of Turki
Al-Dandani. Eighty-five members of this cell are currently being tried. They
carried out three explosions in residential complexes in the eastern areas of
Riyadh. The third cell was led by Ali Al-Barqi and the fourth by Ali Al-Fakasi.

Under the leadership of Saud Al-Qitayni, Al-Qa'idah went through many phases and
carried out a number of terrorist acts.

During Al-Qitayni's reign, a cell was formed in the eastern Al-Ahsa region under
Khalid Al-Sinan. This cell was behind explosions at Interior Ministry and
special emergency forces buildings.

Two cells were established in Qasim under the leadership of Abdullah Al-Husayn
and Abd-al-Majid Al-Maniya. A terrorist cell was established in Khafji under
Salman Al-Shammari and another in Jeddah under a man known by his first name,
Musa.

The organization set up five cells without announcing the names of their
leaders. These were the assassinations, oil, preparations, Kuwait and the North
cells.

After Al-Qitayni was killed in a confrontation with security forces, Moroccan
citizen Yunis Al-Hayari became the leader of Al-Qa'idah in the Kingdom.

During his time, two terrorist cells were established, one under Fahd Al-Juwayr
and the second under Za'id Al-Sammari. Following the death of Al-Hayari in a
confrontation with security forces in Qasim, Fahd Al-Juwayr became the leader of
Al-Qa'idah.

He carried out a bomb attack at an oil refinery in Al-Baqik. The leader and five
of his followers were killed in a rest house east of Riyadh 62 hours after the
attack.

Al-Qa'idah targeted a number of Gulf countries in 2001 with the aim of changing
the regimes there before it shifted its focus to the Kingdom in 2003.

Mukhtar Al-Balushi was assigned the military work outside. He was assisted by
Abd-al-Rahman Al-Nashiri and Abu Ubaydah Al-Hadrami. Al-Nashiri was appointed
leader of Al-Qa'idah in the Arabian Peninsula and Ramzi Al-Shiba was made his
assistant.

The terrorist acts of Al-Qa'idah also included forging travel documents,
deciding the locations for terrorist activity, making arrangements for the entry
of terrorists and providing them with safe accommodation.

Large quantities of arms, ammunition, explosives, banknotes, cars and forged
documents were confiscated by the security forces who were tracking down
terrorists.

For the first time, terrorist trials in Riyadh and Jeddah were opened to the
media. The trial of 11 terrorists allegedly belonging to the Yanbu cell began in
Riyadh in May. They were charged with planning the attack against Yanpet company
in Yanbu in which five Western employees and a Saudi policeman were killed.
Twenty-five Saudis and foreigners were injured. All four terrorists who carried
out the attack were killed. The defendants were also charged with forming a cell
to carry out terrorist acts. They claimed they were avenging the residents of
Fallujah in Iraq who were killed by American forces. Seven of the 11 defendants
are brothers and cousins.

The trial of 85 alleged members of the third terrorist cell who attacked three
residential compounds in Riyadh in 2003 began in June.

The trial of 75 alleged members of the cell known as "the clandestine
organization" began in Jeddah recently. They include 16 academics accused of
attempts to topple the government.

Source: Arab News website, Jedda, in English 12 Sep 11

LOAD-DATE: September 12, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2011 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              36 of 331 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring South Asia - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                           September 12, 2011 Monday

Afghan MPs deny refugees involved in terror attacks in Pakistan

LENGTH: 597 words


Text of report by Afghan independent Tolo TV on 12 September

[Presenter] Afghan MPs reject reports that Afghan refugees in Pakistan are
involved in terror attacks there and criticize the government of Pakistan for
trying to portray them as terrorists. They also say officials in Islamabad want
to defame Afghan refugees. This comes at a time when Pakistani Interior Minister
Rahman Malek has recently accused Afghan refugees of being involved in terror
attacks.

Wali Aryan reports:

[Correspondent] Pakistan is regarded as the main centre of terrorism and both
the government of Afghanistan and the international community say that
terrorists are supported, trained and funded in that country. But the Pakistani
Interior Ministry has accused Afghan refugees of being involved in recent
insecurity in that country. In a recent speech, Rahman Malek said all illegal
refugees should be expelled from Pakistan in one month.

[Rahman Malek, captioned as the Pakistani interior minister, in English,
superimposed with Dari translation] We will establish checkpoints from Khyber
Pakhtunkhawa to Baluchistan to control the refugees. In fact, Afghan refugees
can only enter Pakistan after being controlled by the newly-established
checkpoints. Unfortunately, due to some agreement and tense relations with the
government of Afghanistan, we recently removed those checkpoints.

[Correspondent] Afghan analysts say Afghan refugees are not involved in terror
attacks in Pakistan.

[Jawed Kohestani, captioned as a political analyst] In fact, if the government
of Pakistan considers the Afghan Taleban as refugees, we describe them as
terrorists. This means terrorists come to Afghanistan from Pakistan and they are
funded and trained there. I believe that this is something new the government of
Pakistan has put forward, but Afghan refugees have never been involved in terror
activities in the areas and camps where they live.

[Correspondent] Afghan MPs say the Pakistani interior minister wants to defame
Afghan refugees based in Pakistan. They also say the government of Pakistan does
not have any proof that Afghan refugees have ever carried out terror attacks.

[Fatima Aziz, captioned as an MP] The government of Pakistan does not have any
proof that Afghan refugees have ever carried out a terror attack in Pakistan. I
believe that the government of Pakistan lies about Afghan refugees and conspires
against them. They previously lied when they said Usamah Bin-Ladin and some
other notorious terrorist leaders were in Afghanistan and they have once again
lied about the involvement of Afghan refugees in terror attacks.

[Gholam Faruq Majroh, captioned as an MP] In fact, Pakistan is regarded as the
centre of terrorism and terrorists, who carry out terror activities in Pakistan,
have been trained in Pakistan and that is why they wanted to carry out terror
attack inside the Pakistani territory.

[Correspondent] It is worth pointing out that the Afghan ambassador to Pakistan,
Omar Daudzai, has said he will discuss the issue with Pakistani officials in the
coming days. These remarks have been made at a time when all documents have
shown that terrorists have always crossed the border from Pakistan and entered
Afghanistan to carry out terror attacks. NATO has also called on the government
of Pakistan to prevent the infiltration of terrorists from Pakistan to
Afghanistan.

[Video shows a political analyst, Pakistani interior minister and a number of
MPs speaking; archive footage armed terrorists walking freely in Pakistan and
their bases there].

Source: Tolo TV, Kabul, in Dari 1330 gmt 12 Sep 11

LOAD-DATE: September 12, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2011 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              37 of 331 DOCUMENTS



                               Belfast Telegraph

                           September 12, 2011 Monday
                                 First Edition

On the 10th anniversary of terrorist attacks in US, ceremonies take place across
the world to mourn the 2,977 people who lost their lives;
America falls silent as the victims of 9/11 atrocity remembered

BYLINE: STEPHEN FOLEYQUOTE

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 862 words


SIX times Americans stood together in silence yesterday, at the emotional
culmination of weeks of remembrance, reflection and mourning on the 10th
anniversary of terror attacks on the nation's financial and political capitals.

The silences -- timed to mark the moments when planes hit the Twin Towers of the
World Trade Centre, the Pentagon and crashed in Pennsylvania, and then when the
two towers collapsed -- were powerful reminders of the day when terror came to
the US mainland, killing 2,977 people.

President Barack Obama stood with his predecessor, George W Bush, at a ceremony
at the World Trade Centre site in New York, attended by thousands of victims'
friends and family members. The former President's wife, Laura Bush, wept as she
looked on a sea of people waving pictures or wearing T-shirts of loved ones
lost.

The ceremony at Ground Zero, and the opening of a memorial that has been 10
years in the making, was the centrepoint of a day of events across the country.

President Obama criss-crossed the East Coast to attend services at the Pentagon
and in Shanksville, Pennsylvania, where United flight 93 was brought down when
passengers tackled hijackers thought to be intent on flying it into the White
House. There, in a field in rural Pennsylvania, he helped to place a wreath at
the marbled Wall of Names memorialising those who died.

Under skies much greyer than the blue from which terror appeared 10 years ago,
attendees at the Ground Zero ceremony heard the words of presidents and poets,
prayers and personal stories from the relatives of victims.

Mr Obama read a psalm and Mr Bush read from a letter written by Abraham Lincoln
to a woman whose five children died fighting for the Union.

"I pray that our Heavenly Father may assuage the anguish of your bereavement,
and leave you only the cherished memory of the loved and lost, and the solemn
pride that must be yours to have laid so costly a sacrifice upon the altar of
freedom," he said.

For more than four hours, family members took turns to read the names of the
dead and to make moving tributes to their own sons, daughters, parents and
partners. Candy Glazer, whose husband Edmund had called her for a cheerful
goodbye before take-off on the plane that ultimately crashed into the Trade
Centre's north tower, said: "May your soul finally rest in peace. Your son
Nathan and I, as the years go by, grow strong. Goodbye, my dear friend, my
teacher and my hero."

Rudy Giuliani, New York's mayor -- dubbed "the nation's mayor" -- on that day,
asked for a blessing on all those lost and left behind, while his successor,
Michael Bloomberg, quoted Shakespeare's admonishment, "Let us not measure our
sorrow by their worth, for then it shall have no end."

Osama bin Laden, the mastermind of the attacks may be dead, but the terror
threat from Islamic fundamentalism remains. In the days leading up to the
ceremonies, the secret services and the FBI chased rumours of a plot to bomb New
York or Washington, or maybe both, with car or truck bombs on bridges and
tunnels.

Yesterday police officers were still scouring travel records in search of three
al-Qaida operatives said to have been dispatched to the US, two of whom may or
may not have entered the country, and examining whether the theft of three vans
overnight in New York might be more than a worrying coincidence.

An additional layer of security was thrown up across both cities. In New York,
heavily armed police in bomb-proof vehicles were stationed in Union Square in
the middle of Manhattan. The presidents spoke their words at the site from
behind bullet-proof glass.

Hundreds of ceremonies were happening yesterday as they had been all weekend.
Hundreds of people linked hands around the water's edge in Manhattan in a
community-organised ceremony for those who did not lose loved ones in the attack
but for whom the attacks on their city remain forever a terrible scar.

In his weekly video address to the nation, Mr Obama had said the nation is safer
"thanks to the tireless efforts of our military personnel and our intelligence,
law enforcement and homeland security professionals. Today, America is stronger,
and al-Qaida is on the path to defeat."

"Time to not let things hold you back. Time to just step out into the world and
see how things are" -- Elijah Portillo (17), whose father died in the World
Trade Centre

CAPTION: Pictured clockwise: A woman listens yesterday at the tenth anniversary
ceremonies of the September 11, 2001 terrorist attacks at the World Trade Centre
site, in New York; US Consul General Kamala Lakhdhir lays a wreath watched by
Lord Mayor of Belfast Niall O Donnghaile in the grounds of Belfast City Hall;
Christy McAllister from Memphis, USA, breaks down watching the live feed from
New York at Belfast City Hall; President Barack Obama and first lady Michelle
Obama lay a wreath at the Wall of Names at the Flight 93 National Memorial in
Shanksville, Pennsylvania; at the 9/11 memorial pool, Vasantha Velamuri mourns
at the sight of her husband's name; Alicia Bergstein comforts her children Devin
and Adrianna at the New York memorial. Her husband Daniel died in the attacks

CAPTION: Getty/PA Wire/Pacemaker/AP Photo

LOAD-DATE: September 12, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: BT


                Copyright 2011 Belfast Telegraph Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              38 of 331 DOCUMENTS



                               Belfast Telegraph

                           September 12, 2011 Monday
                                 First Edition

9/11 attacks changed our view on terrorism for good

SECTION: COMMENT; Pg. 26

LENGTH: 735 words


On September 11, 2001, I was about to hold an early afternoon editorial
conference in the Belfast Telegraph. Someone suggested we turn on the television
in the editor's office as something incredible appeared to be happening in New
York.

This day would rank in our lives in the same way as the murder of President John
F Kennedy did for millions around the world 38 years earlier.

The question of where were you when Kennedy was shot would become, for a new
generation, where were you when the twin towers collapsed.

And, just as with Kennedy, the special editions of newspapers began to roll off
the presses everywhere, including in Belfast that September afternoon.

What we didn't realise then, but know now, is that September 11 altered the
Western world's perception of terrorism most notably where it mattered most for
Northern Ireland -- in the Irish-American heartlands across the Atlantic.

As a result, we live in a very different atmosphere today. How times have
changed in only one decade.

For example, take this past weekend and Sinn Fein holding its first ard fheis in
Northern Ireland at the Waterfront Hall.

I remember attending the civic dinner to mark the Waterfront's opening. Because
most guests wanted nothing to do with Sinn Fein, its councillors were
diplomatically seated in a corner with editors like myself.

How times have changed. Now we have a Presbyterian minister addressing the ard
fheis. The Lord Mayor of Belfast is also a member of Sinn Fein. He was a teenage
boy on 9/11 and not even born to experience the worst of the Troubles.

How times have changed. I thought that, too, as I looked out over a rain-swept
Belfast one Friday evening this month. The word normality sprung to mind -- and
not only because of the weather.

From my vantage-point, I could see three sets of floodlights beaming through the
dusk. To my left, in the west of the city, the lights of Casement Park, more
centrally, those at Windsor Park, and over on the right, Ravenhill.

Belfast was out on the town and at play, a far cry from the days when hardly an
entertainer, or sportsperson, would dare to come to Northern Ireland and the
city was a cultural desert.

The following day I stood with tens of thousands enjoying the Portrush Air Show
and, in the evening, attended the Clandeboye festival, where the packed audience
gave a standing ovation to the inimitable Barry Douglas and his Camerata Ireland
musicians.

How times have changed, indeed. But would it really have been like it is today
if 9/11 had not happened?

The attack on New York proved to be a catalyst for those who wanted to reject
violence, as so many did in Northern Ireland. The events of 9/11 made terrorism
the dirtiest word on Earth and no more so than here where it had destroyed so
many lives, businesses, jobs and property.

As the world looked back yesterday at that cataclysmic event, we who had
experienced terrorism for so long had more reason than most to remember not just
the victims of the twin towers, but those who died through violence much closer
to home.

For every victim in New York, this small province had one also. For every family
that mourns to this day across the Atlantic, there is another here doing the
same; feeling no less pain, suffering no less loss.

Had September 11 not happened, I wonder would we be as far advanced in the peace
process. Might the political parties have procrastinated for years over the
decommissioning of IRA weapons, or any number of other obstacles to a lasting
peace?

In reality, the terrorist game was up the moment those planes crashed into the
towers. Toleration of terror lay buried in the rubble of New York.

The heat in the kitchen had become too great. Only the old republican diehards
-- the so-called 'dissidents' -- have closed their ears and eyes and stayed put.

The smart guys in the Irish republican movement, such as Gerry Adams and Martin
McGuinness, swiftly understood the message of 9/11.

Osama bin Laden had given them an unassailably persuasive argument to use
against any hardliners. The notion that bombing and killing in Ireland is an
honourable cause worth a dollar in a charity bucket in some Manhattan pub
belongs to yesterday.

Out of the terrible evil we all witnessed on 9/11, some good has come in this
small corner of the Western world.

CAPTION: Changed times: after 9/11 America viewed Sinn Fein differently which
moved the peace process forward; the ard fheis yesterday (main)

LOAD-DATE: September 12, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: BT


                Copyright 2011 Belfast Telegraph Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              39 of 331 DOCUMENTS



                          The Daily Telegraph (London)

                           September 12, 2011 Monday
                                   Edition 2;
                                National Edition

City memorials mark the 10th anniversary of 9/11 terrorist attacks;
Remembrance day

SECTION: BUSINESS; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 26 words


Members of the London Fire Brigade joined events to mark the anniversary. Prince
Charles was among worshippers and relatives of victims at a service at St Paul's

LOAD-DATE: September 12, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DTL


                  Copyright 2011 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              40 of 331 DOCUMENTS



                                  Guardian.com

                           September 12, 2011 Monday

Swedish police arrest four on suspicion of plotting terrorist attack

BYLINE: Ed Pilkingtonguardian.co.uk

LENGTH: 699 words

ABSTRACT

Arts centre in Gothenburg evacuated after police received threat which they felt
posed a serious danger

FULL TEXT

Swedish police have arrested four people on suspicion of preparing a terror
attack and have evacuated an arts centre in the country's second largest city.

The four were arrested in Gothenburg and were suspected of plotting terrorism,
security police spokesman Stefan Johansson said.

It was not immediately clear whether the arrests were linked to the 10th
anniversary of the September 11 terrorist attacks in the US.

Police in Gothenburg said they had evacuated an arts centre in the early hours
of Sunday due to a threat deemed to pose "serious danger for life, health or
substantial damage of property".

They said they had assisted security police with the arrest and declined to give
any further comments.

Mia Christersdotter Norman, the head of the Roda Sten arts centre in Gothenburg,
said about 400 people were celebrating the opening of an international biennial
for contemporary art when police ordered everyone to leave the building.

"Around midnight I was called out by the police and they said there was a threat
to the building and asked us to quietly stop the party, which we did and
everyone left," Christersdotter Norman told Associated Press.

"Police have searched the building but they didn't find anything," she said,
adding the arts centre would re-open as usual on Sunday.

Sweden raised its terror threat alert level from low to elevated in October last
year. In December, suicide bomber Taimour Abdulwahab al-Abdaly blew himself up
in downtown Stockholm among panicked Christmas shoppers, injuring two people and
causing shock in a country that had largely been insulated from terrorism.

The 2007 drawing of the prophet Muhammad by a Swedish cartoonist, Lars Vilks,
raised tensions. In May, Vilks was assaulted while giving a speech in Uppsala,
and an unsuccessful attempt was made to burn down his home. His cartoon was
reportedly the inspiration for Abdaly's attack.

In a report detailing the extent of extremist Islamist networks in Sweden,
ordered months before that attack, the Sapo security agency had downplayed the
risk of terror attacks in the Nordic country.

Activity among radicalised Muslims in Sweden is primarily directed toward
supporting militants in other countries, including Somalia, Afghanistan and
Pakistan, it said.

Scandinavia has largely been focused on Islamic terrorism since the 9/11
attacks, but in the wake of the killing spree in Norway in July by Anders
Behring Breivik - a rightwing, anti-immigrant Norwegian - the European police
agency said it was setting up a taskforce to help investigate non-Islamist
threats in Scandinavian countries.

Meanwhile in the US, as the final touches were being put in place for Sunday's
commemoration of the anniversary at Ground Zero, heightened security was clearly
visible on the streets of Manhattan.

All lorries were being stopped on George Washington Bridge and there was
increased security at all other bridges and tunnels.

Police roadblocks were set up at key intersections of the city, including 59th
Street and Lexington Avenue.

A roadblock was set up in the middle of Times Square itself, and on main
cross-streets leading into it, causing virtual gridlock.

On Friday, vehicle checkpoints were in place in key locations across New York,
with police stopping vans and lorries passing through the city in response to
specific and credible intelligence that a car bomb was planned to disrupt the
10th anniversary of 9/11.

On Thursday night, Hillary Clinton said the plot originated with al-Qaida and
its targets were New York and Washington.

She said the threat had been made public so as to activate a "great network of
unity and support" against those who would wreak violence on innocent people.

"It is a continuing reminder of the stakes in our struggle against extremism,"
she said.

One of the key findings of the 9/11 commission report that looked at the events
leading up to the attacks on New York and Washington 10 years ago was that there
were ample warnings in the weeks leading up to it of a massive attack in the
pipeline, yet the intelligence was not acted upon and shared between agencies.

LOAD-DATE: September 12, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2011 Guardian Unlimited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              41 of 331 DOCUMENTS



                                  Guardian.com

                           September 12, 2011 Monday

Tony Blair knew immediately that 9/11 terror attacks 'changed everything'

BYLINE: Lisa O'Carrollguardian.co.uk

LENGTH: 381 words

ABSTRACT

Blair's ex-chief of staff Jonathan Powell says former prime minister became
'very steely, very focused' after attacks on US

FULL TEXT

Tony Blair became "very steely, very focused" immediately after the September 11
attacks, his former chief of staff said on Saturday.

In an interview marking 10 years since 9/11, Jonathan Powell told BBC Breakfast:
"He realised that things had changed. Many people took longer to get there.

"A lot of people didn't realise quite how much this changed attitudes in
America. For them, it was another Pearl Harbour. It changed everything."

Blair was in Brighton on the day preparing for a speech for a TUC conference. He
was alone in a room making final tweaks when an aid interrupted him and told him
there was something he must watch on TV.

After the second plane crashed into the twin towers, he knew it was a terrorist
attack.

"He really became very steely, very focused. I think he was the first on
television to express our sympathy as a country, but also the world's sympathy
with the United States and to stand alongside them," said Powell.

"Many Americans still remember what he said at the time and that's why he's
still quite popular in the US because he stood out there and said what the world
thought about it."

Meanwhile, Powell said that Downing Street was unable to contact President Bush
until the day after the terrorists struck.

Bush was "a very shaken man", he said. "He wasn't sure what to do. His voice was
quavering. He was in a state almost of shock."

In a separate interview with the Radio 4 Today programme on Saturday, Blair
insisted "significant blows" had been struck in the war on terror but admitted,
"it's not over".

Speaking from his London home on the eve of 9/11, he defended the actions he
took in the wake of the atrocity and said it was "deeply naive" to believe the
response of the west had radicalised extremist Muslim factions.

He said radicals "believe in what they believe in because they believe their
religion compels them to believe in it".

He told the terrorism threat would only end when "we defeat the ideology".

"I think it will take a generation, but the way to defeat this ideology
ultimately is by a better idea, and we have it, which is a way of life based on
openness, democracy, freedom and the rule of law."

LOAD-DATE: September 12, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2011 Guardian Unlimited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              42 of 331 DOCUMENTS



                              The Herald (Glasgow)

                           September 12, 2011 Monday
                                   1 Edition

Prayers and protests as victims of terror attacks are remembered

BYLINE: Rebecca McQuillan

SECTION: HS - NEWS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 624 words


People of all faiths and none united yesterday at services of remembrance across
the UK for victims of the September 11 attacks.

Prince Charles, the Duchess of Cornwall and Prime Minister David Cameron joined
the bereaved at an event at the September 11 Memorial Garden next to the US
embassy in Grosvenor Square, London.

Earlier, services were held at Grosvenor Chapel and St Paul s Cathedral, while
in Scotland, faith leaders and politicians took part in a peace walk in
Edinburgh.

Inter-faith services of remembrance were also held at Cathcart Old Parish
Church, Glasgow, and St Nicholas Kirk, Aberdeen, attended by the First Minister,
Alex Salmond. Among the 2976 people who died on September 11, 2001, were 67
Britons.

One was Cantor Fitzgerald broker Robert Eaton, 37, from Sussex. At St Paul s his
sister Angela Ridge read a prayer for  families and hearts everywhere which have
been broken through acts of violence and terrorism .

However, protests by radical Islamist groups including Muslims Against Crusades
(MAC) threatened to disrupt the commemorations.

The protesters set fire to a US flag outside the US embassy during a minute s
silence held to mark the moment when the first hijacked airliner hit the World
Trade Centre.

A group of Muslims staged a counter-demonstration nearby, holding up placards
reading  Muslims Against Extremism  and  If You Want Sharia, Move To Saudi .

Abdul Sallam, 41, from Glasgow, who travelled to London to pay his respects on
the anniversary, said:  I m a Muslim. What they re doing is bringing shame on
all Muslims.

Islam is all about peace, but what they want to do is hate other people. I am
proud to be British. I love my country. All these people are doing is breaking
Britain apart.

The protesters hurled abuse at the London Mayor Boris Johnson when he arrived
for the Grosvenor Square service and rushed at him, forcing the police to hurry
to protect him. They stopped chanting shortly before the service began.

One man whose cousin died in the terror attacks said the protesters shouldn t be
allowed to stand opposite the embassy and use a megaphone.  It s very
disrespectful. It s too loud.

Tom Clarke, who lost his sister Suria, a 30-year-old PR executive, in the
attacks on the World Trade Centre, said he did not want to see the
demonstration, but added:  I would much rather live in a country where people
are allowed to do that than one where they aren t. I would defend their right to
protest.

English Defence League protesters later clashed with departing protesters and
bottles were thrown.

The day was marked by moving contributions from survivors and bereaved
relatives.

Dr Courtney Cowart, who was nearly buried alive in the north tower, spent a year
working at St Paul s Chapel in New York supporting rescuers involved in the
recovery operation.

People said the atmosphere was so thick with love, it was like touching the face
of God,  she said.

The St Paul s service featured a newly commissioned anthem based on the words
grief is the price we pay for love , included in a message the Queen sent to a
memorial service held in New York for British victims.

Earlier, in a television interview, the US ambassador Louis Susman paid tribute
to Britain for the support and sympathy extended to Americans in the wake of the
attacks.

I particularly was moved when I heard that when many Americans gathered at
Buckingham Palace to console themselves in some way, the Queen ordered, for the
first time in history, that in the changing of the guard they played the Star
Spangled Banner instead of God Save the Queen,  he said.

Meanwhile, former home secretary John Reid warned the passage of time since the
September 11 terrorist attacks  should not blind us to the continuing threat
from terrorism .

LOAD-DATE: September 12, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: REMEMBRANCE: David Cameron and US Ambassador Louis Susman pay tribute
to victims while radical Muslims protest and an inter-faith service is held in
Glasgow.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: GH


                      Copyright 2011 Newsquest Media Group
                              All Rights Reserved

                              43 of 331 DOCUMENTS



                               Independent.co.uk

                     September 12, 2011 Monday 12:43 AM GMT

Six silences - and then a single prayer for the thousands who perished;
Presidents Bush and Obama mourn the victims of terror attacks on a day of
mourning for America

BYLINE: By Stephen Foley in New York

SECTION: AMERICAS

LENGTH: 802 words


Six times Americans stood together in silence yesterday, at the emotional
culmination of weeks of remembrance, reflection and mourning on the 10th
anniversary of terror attacks on the nation's financial and political
capitals.

The silences - timed to mark the moments when planes hit the World Trade
Centre and the Pentagon and a fourth crashed in Pennsylvania and then when   the
twin towers collapsed - were powerful reminders of the day terror came   to the
US mainland, killing 2,977 people.

President Barack Obama stood with his predecessor, George W Bush, at a
ceremony at Ground Zero in New York, their first time together there.

Thousands of the victims' friends and family waved pictures or wore T-shirts
bearing images of the lost.

The ceremony - and the opening of a memorial that has been 10 years in the
making - was the central focus of a day of events across the country.

President Obama travelled the East Coast to attend services at the Pentagon
and in Shanksville, Pennsylvania, where United flight 93 was brought down   when
passengers tackled hijackers thought to be intent on flying it into the   White
House. There, in a field in rural Pennsylvania, he helped to place a   wreath at
the marbled Wall of Names memorialising those who died. Later, at   the
Pentagon, he placed a wreath at a memorial where each of 184 victims is
remembered with a bench and small reflecting pool and greeted visitors while   a
band played "Amazing Grace".

In New York, under skies much greyer than the blue from which terror appeared
10 years ago, attendees at the Ground Zero ceremony heard the words of
presidents and poets, prayers and personal stories from the relatives of
victims.

Mr Obama read a psalm and Mr Bush read from a letter written by Abraham
Lincoln, to a woman whose five children died fighting for the Union in the
Civil War.

"I pray that our Heavenly Father may assuage the anguish of your   bereavement,
and leave you only the cherished memory of the loved and lost,   and the solemn
pride that must be yours to have laid so costly a sacrifice   upon the altar of
freedom," he said. For more than four hours, family   members took turns to read
the names of the dead and to make moving tributes   to their own sons,
daughters, parents and partners.

Candy Glazer, whose husband, Edmund, had called her for a cheerful goodbye
before take-off on the plane that ultimately crashed into the Trade Centre's
north tower, said: "May your soul finally rest in peace. Your son   Nathan and
I, as the years go by, grow strong. Goodbye, my dear friend, my   teacher and my
hero."

Rudy Giuliani, New York's mayor - and dubbed "the nation's mayor"   - on that
day, asked for a blessing on all those lost and left behind, while   his
successor, Michael Bloomberg, quoted Shakespeare's admonishment: "Let   us not
measure our sorrow by their worth, for then it shall have no end."

While one man in Shanksville called out to thank President Obama for the
killing of Osama bin Laden by US Navy Seals in May, that event appeared to
have done nothing to blunt the potency of the 9/11 anniversary or the power   of
the grief it stirred anew. Indeed, while its moneyed mastermind may be   dead,
the terror threat from Islamist fundamentalism cast its shadow still.   In the
days leading up to the ceremonies, the Secret Service and the FBI   chased
rumours of a plot to bomb New York or Washington, or maybe both, with   car or
truck bombs on bridges and tunnels.

The rumours, secondhand from an informant in Pakistan, were not too vague to
ignore and yesterday police officers were still scouring travel records in
search of three al-Qa'ida operatives said to have been dispatched to the US,
two of whom may or may not have entered the country, and examining whether   the
theft of three vans overnight in New York might be more than a worrying
coincidence. Warranted or not, an additional layer of security was thrown up
across both cities. In New York, heavily armed police in bomb-proof vehicles
were stationed in Union Square in the middle of Manhattan. The Presidents
spoke their words at the site from behind bullet-proof glass. And late in   the
day, the US military scrambled two F-16 jets to accompany an aircraft   flying
from Los Angeles to New York after reports of suspicious activity.

The president's only other planned public remarks were scheduled at a memorial
concert in Washington last night. In an interview also broadcast yesterday,   on
NBC television, Mr Obama, a state senator in Illinois in 2001, recalled   going
home after the attacks and rocking his baby daughter, Sasha. "Our   first
reaction was, and continues to be, just heartbreak for the families   involved.
The other thing that we all remember is how America came together,"   he said.

LOAD-DATE: September 12, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication


                  Copyright 2011 Independent News & Media plc
                              All Rights Reserved

                              44 of 331 DOCUMENTS



                               Independent.co.uk

                     September 12, 2011 Monday 12:00 AM GMT

Six silences - and then a single prayer for the thousands who perished;
Presidents Bush and Obama mourn the victims of terror attacks on a day of
mourning for America

BYLINE: By Stephen Foley in New York

SECTION: AMERICAS

LENGTH: 792 words


Six times Americans stood together in silence yesterday, at the emotional
culmination of weeks of remembrance, reflection and mourning on the 10th
anniversary of terror attacks on the nation's financial and political capitals.

The silences - timed to mark the moments when planes hit the Twin Towers of the
World Trade Centre and the Pentagon and a fourth crashed in Pennsylvania and
then when the two towers collapsed - were powerful reminders of the day when
terror came to the US mainland, killing 2,977 people.

President Barack Obama stood with his predecessor, George W Bush, at a ceremony
at the World Trade Centre site in New York, attended by thousands of victims'
friends and family members. The former President's wife, Laura Bush, wept as she
looked out on a sea of people waving pictures or wearing T-shirts of loved ones
lost.

The ceremony at Ground Zero, and the opening of a memorial that has been 10
years in the making, was the centrepoint of a day of events across the country.

President Obama criss-crossed the East Coast to attend services at the Pentagon
and in Shanksville, Pennsylvania, where United flight 93 was brought down when
passengers tackled hijackers thought to be intent on flying it into the White
House. There, in a field in rural  Pennsylvania, he helped to place a wreath at
the marbled Wall of Names memorialising those who died.

Under skies much greyer than the blue from which terror appeared 10 years ago,
attendees at the Ground Zero ceremony heard the words of presidents and poets,
prayers and personal stories from the relatives of victims.

Mr Obama read a psalm and Mr Bush read from a letter written by Abraham Lincoln
to a woman whose five children died fighting for the Union.

"I pray that our Heavenly Father may assuage the anguish of your bereavement,
and leave you only the cherished memory of the loved and lost, and the solemn
pride that must be yours to have laid so costly a sacrifice upon the altar of
freedom," he said.

For more than four hours, family members took turns to read the names of the
dead and to make moving tributes to their own sons, daughters, parents and
partners. Candy Glazer, whose husband Edmund had called her for a cheerful
goodbye before take-off on the plane that ultimately crashed into the Trade
Centre's north tower, said: "May your soul finally rest in peace. Your son
Nathan and I, as the years go by, grow strong. Goodbye, my dear friend, my
teacher and my hero."

Rudy Giuliani, New York's mayor - and dubbed "the nation's mayor" - on that day,
asked for a blessing on all those lost and left behind, while his successor,
Michael Bloomberg, quoted Shakespeare's admonishment, "Let us not measure our
sorrow by their worth, for then it shall have no end."

The killing of Osama bin Laden by US Navy Seals in May appeared to have done
nothing to blunt the potency of the anniversary or the power of the grief it
stirred anew. Indeed, it barely seemed to register yesterday.

The moneyed mastermind of the attacks may be dead, but the terror threat from
Islamic fundamentalism cast its shadow still. In the days leading up to the
ceremonies, secret services and the FBI chased rumours of a plot to bomb New
York or Washington, or maybe both, with car or truck bombs on bridges and
tunnels.

The rumours, second hand from an informant in Pakistan, were not too vague to
ignore, and yesterday police officers were still scouring travel records in
search of three al-Qa'ida operatives said to have been dispatched to the US, two
of whom may or may not have entered the country, and examining whether the theft
of three vans overnight in New York might be more than a worrying coincidence.

Warranted or not, an additional layer of security was thrown up across both
cities. In New York, heavily armed police in bomb-proof vehicles were stationed
in Union Square in the middle of Manhattan, and the cordon around Ground Zero
was fortified with roadblocks and metal scanners for backpacks. The presidents
spoke their words at the site from behind bullet-proof glass.

Hundreds of ceremonies were happening yesterday in towns and cities, large and
small, as they had been all weekend. Mr Bush on Saturday attended a memorial in
Shanksville with Vice-President Joe Biden, while hundreds of people linked hands
around the water's edge in Manhattan in a community-organised ceremony for those
who did not lose loved ones in the attack but for whom the attacks on their city
remain forever a terrible scar.

In his weekly video address to the nation, Mr Obama had said the nation is safer
"thanks to the tireless efforts of our military personnel and our intelligence,
law enforcement and homeland security professionals ...  Today, America is
stronger, and al-Qa'ida is on the path to defeat."

LOAD-DATE: September 12, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication


                  Copyright 2011 Independent News & Media plc
                              All Rights Reserved

                              45 of 331 DOCUMENTS


                              Liverpool Daily Echo

                           September 12, 2011 Monday
                                  1ST Edition

USA FALLS SILENT ON TERROR ATTACK ANNIVERSARY

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 165 words


AMERICA fell silent to honour the victims of the September 11 attacks yesterday,
at memorial services to commemorate the 10th anniversary of the atrocity. The
names of all those killed when terrorists flew two passenger jets into the World
Trade Center, in New York, were read out by family members. It took the best
part of two hours for all those murdered in the attacks to be mentioned. The
roll call at the newly-unveiled September 11 Memorial, in Lower Manhattan, was
broken by pauses of reflection to coincide with the exact times when terrorists
struck on September 11, 2001. The first moment of silence took place at 8.46am,
the moment when the first hijacked plane slammed into a tower at the World Trade
Center. Some 2,753 people died in New York, while 184 died in Washington when a
third plane ploughed into the Pentagon. In Pennsylvania, 40 people died after
passengers stormed the cockpit in a desperate bid to overpower terrorist
hijackers. The aircraft crashed into a field.

LOAD-DATE: September 12, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: le


               Copyright 2011 The Liverpool Daily Post & Echo Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                              46 of 331 DOCUMENTS



                                  M2 PressWIRE

                           September 12, 2011 Monday

Fort Hood reflects on terror attacks

LENGTH: 1371 words


September 9, 2011

FORT HOOD, Texas, -- He was sitting in his office at 1st Corps Support Command
in Wiesbaden, Germany, when the G-3 sergeant major summoned him down the hall,
into an office and urged him to look at the TV. It was a replay of an airplane
hitting the north tower of the World Trade Center.



As the office began filling with others, transfixed and staring at the
television, he was confused.

Then the second plane hit the south tower.

"I got so dizzy," he said.

AMERICAN-MUSLIM

Ten years later, like practically every American, retired Command Sgt. Maj.
Wagdi Mabrouk can recall his every action and every feeling from Sept. 11, 2001.


As an Egyptian-American and a lifelong Muslim, as well as a Soldier in the U.S.
Army, Mabrouk was confused and angry, especially after he found out the
terrorists were Muslim.

Born in New York, Mabrouk is an American.

"I was born in this country," he said. "We watched the towers going up."

That day, Mabrouk rushed to call his mother. She answered on the first ring.

"She was screaming, 'He didn't do anything,'" he said.

His brother, Adel, worked in the north tower, and no one could get in touch with
him. The family knew Adel, a maintenance supervisor, would be at work because
even though he worked third shift and got off around 8 a.m., Adel usually stayed
until 11 a.m. to ensure his guys were set for their shift.

The family found out later on Sept. 11 that Adel set his window-washing crews up
at the tower. He then left to meet a co-worker for breakfast. He was headed home
on the Long Island Railroad when the attacks occurred.

Adel lost 39 of his men that day and has never been the same, Mabrouk said.

That day changed Mabrouk as well.

He was disgusted by the attacks and worked to separate himself and his faith
from those who carried out the attacks on his country.

"I don't want to be the bad guy," Mabrouk said. "I worked hard to win acceptance
in my unit."

After Germany, Mabrouk was assigned to 1st Battalion, 4th Combat Aviation
Brigade at Fort Hood, the unit with which he deployed to Iraq in 2003.

He meshed well with his unit and felt accepted before they left. While in Iraq,
Mabrouk helped with cultural liaison duties as well as interpreting. He
organized efforts to help Iraqi children receive shoes.

The tide changed for him when an American Soldier assigned to the 101st Airborne
Division turned on officers in his unit and threw a grenade into their tent,
killing two.

Once again, Mabrouk separated himself and worked hard to show he was one of the
good guys.

Since the attacks in 2001, Mabrouk has been outspoken about condemning not only
the 9/11 attacks, but others as well. He feels it is his duty as a Muslim and as
an American.

"It is our job not only to educate non-Muslims, but our brothers as well,"
Mabrouk said. "After 9/11, the attacks affected Muslims, especially
American-Muslims, in ways many do not understand."

He said the attacks were a turning point for Muslims worldwide. For Mabrouk,
that turning point led him to learn more about his faith and to share it with
others.

"As Muslims, we are forever in the position that we have to convince people," he
said. "We absolutely have to speak out against any acts of violence."

PENTAGON

Fort Hood Garrison Public Affairs Director Tom Rheinlander was in the Pentagon
on Sept. 11, 2001.

Thirty-four minutes after the second plane hit the World Trade Center and a few
hundred miles south, then-Lt. Col. Rheinlander was watching television news
coverage of the attacks from his office in the Pentagon outside Washington when
he heard and felt a rumble.

"It was nothing to a great extent," he said. "The building gave a little shake."


As the deputy public affairs officer for the Joint Staff, Rheinlander constantly
had a television on in his office.

When he saw the first plane hit, his initial thought was that it was a small
plane and an accident. When the second plane struck the south tower, Rheinlander
thought there was a potential that it was no accident.

Within the office in the Pentagon, email traffic started to flow as those at the
highest levels in defense started to absorb the incidents.

When the Pentagon was struck, Rheinlander and his co-workers were sure it was a
truck bomb.

Within a minute or two following the attack, alert sirens and the big voice came
on.

"I remember the voice, 'This is not a drill. This is a real emergency,'"
Rheinlander said. "People heeded that."

The office staff followed their practiced evacuation route and exited the
building safely. One person was not accounted for immediately because the worker
was in another part of the building at the time of the attack.

Rheinlander left a voicemail on his home phone to let his family know that he
was safe. He did not know at the time that the attacks had affected the cell
phone lines and his family never received his message.

"I thought my family knew I was OK," Rheinlander said.

He let them know there was an incident at the Pentagon, that he had evacuated
and that he was alright.

Rheinlander then awaited instructions.

Outside the Pentagon, he was on the opposite side of where the building was hit.


"I could see heavy black smoke," he said. "I knew something had occurred against
the Pentagon. I thought it was a truck bomb."

No one with Rheinlander had imagined a plane crashing into the building at that
time.

"We didn't see it as a viable target for a plane," he said.

Cell phone lines were jammed, but the public affairs officer received a text
from the National Military Command Center to come back inside the Pentagon. The
Joint Staff PAO was still in the building. That office was located well-within
the Pentagon and away from the blast.

Escorted by firemen, Rheinlander went back in and got to work.

"The NMCC was still operational, but communication was hazy," he said. "The
decision was made to continue as long as possible."

Rheinlander said they re-entered the building and worked not only because they
had jobs to do, but also to prove a point.

"We took a hit, but we continued to operate," he said. "There was a determined
resolve that we were going to continue to function."

Eventually, Rheinlander and some key staff were airlifted to an alternate
location to set up the contingency office in case the Pentagon became unstable
or unsafe.

As they took off on those helicopters, the staffers were provided the first
clear view of the damage. That was when they were sure it was not a truck bomb.


After setting up the alternate location, the decision was made to continue to
work out of the Pentagon. Rheinlander made it home to his family around 6 p.m.
It was then that he discovered they never got his message.

That was when the events of the day hit home. His family did not know he was OK
until he walked in the door.

The next day, and many others that followed, Rheinlander returned to the
Pentagon and conducted daily briefings with members of the Joint Staff. And he
watched the Pentagon and America rebuild.

The attack changed the Pentagon, and it changed Rheinlander.

"It made me more reflective and more appreciative of what the military does," he
said. "I pause and think that I could have been in a meeting (in that part of
the building) that day."

With the 10th anniversary of that day rapidly approaching, Rheinlander said it
is good to have a mark on the calendar.

"Ten years really isn't any more special to me (than previous years)," he said.
"Each year, I take time to pause, reflect and refocus. It's something that will
stay with me."

ALL-AMERICAN TRAGEDY

The attacks on Sept. 11, 2001, were a shared tragedy that became a watershed
moment for all Americans, regardless of where they happened to be that morning.


Heroes were made in New York City, at the Pentagon and in a field outside
Shanksville, Pa.

It was a time of deep sadness as well as a rallying point for Americans. It was
a day most will never forget.

As the annual observances of Sept. 11 occur, Mabrouk and his family are mindful
of the date and how strongly it has affected the country, and they are
respectful of ceremonies. He knows that as deeply as the attacks touched him,
the nation as a whole was affected as well.

"We'll never be the same," Mabrouk said. "We are still healing."

LOAD-DATE: September 12, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newswire

JOURNAL-CODE: M2PW


                      Copyright 2011 Normans Media Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              47 of 331 DOCUMENTS



                                  M2 PressWIRE

                           September 12, 2011 Monday

PM marks 10th anniversary of terrorist attacks

LENGTH: 252 words


September 11, 2011

Prime Minister John Key today said the 10th anniversary of the September 11
terrorist attacks in the United States was a time for reflection.



"The attacks on the World Trade Centre in New York and the Pentagon remain
sharply etched in our memories, and we also today remember those who lost their
lives in the aircraft which crashed in Pennsylvania," Mr Key said.

"New Zealand honours the innocent victims of these attacks.

"They came from more than 70 countries around the world including New Zealand,
and our thoughts are with the families and friends who have had to rebuild their
lives without their loved ones," Mr Key said.

The 10th anniversary of September 11 is particularly poignant in New Zealand,
where the United States rugby team -- known as the USA Eagles -- will be playing
a match against Ireland as part of the Rugby World Cup.

Mr Key said the people of New Plymouth would ensure the match was played in an
atmosphere of great spirit, and New Zealanders were pleased to be able to
welcome the USA Eagles to the Rugby World Cup.

"The events of September 11, 2001, fundamentally reshaped our world and
strengthened international resolve to fight terrorism. Our determination to
fight terrorism, wherever it manifests itself, remains undimished," Mr Key said.


"As we remember today those who died or were injured 10 years ago, I want to
acknowledge those in military and civilian organisations around the world who
risk their lives every day in the fight against terrorism."

LOAD-DATE: September 12, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newswire

JOURNAL-CODE: M2PW


                      Copyright 2011 Normans Media Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              48 of 331 DOCUMENTS


                            Nottingham Evening Post

                           September 12, 2011 Monday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

World pays tribute to 9/11 terror attack victims;
Day that shook the world: 10 years on

BYLINE: PA News

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 8,9

LENGTH: 647 words


AMERICA fell silent to honour the victims of the September 11 attacks yesterday
in a series of memorial services to commemorate the 10th anniversary of the
atrocity.

In emotional scenes, the names of all those killed when terrorists flew two
passenger jets into the World Trade Centre in New York were read out by family
members.

It took the best part of two hours for all those murdered in the attacks to be
mentioned, testimony to the scale of loss caused within a similar timeframe a
decade ago.

The roll call at the newly unveiled September 11 Memorial in Lower Manhattan was
broken by pauses of reflection coinciding with the exact times when terrorists
struck on September 11, 2001.

The first moment of silence took place at 8.46am (1.46pm BST), the time when the
first hijacked plane slammed into a tower at the World Trade Centre.

As the bells from nearby St Paul's Chapel were tolled, September 11 families at
the memorial and many among the large crowds that had travelled to the streets
of Lower Manhattan bowed their heads in respect. Around the globe, people
stopped at exactly the same time at separate memorials to do likewise.

Some 2,753 people died in New York on September 11, 2001, while 184 perished in
Washington when a third plane ploughed into the Pentagon.

In Pennsylvania, 40 people died after passengers - alerted to events in New York
- stormed the cockpit in a desperate bid to overpower terrorist hijackers.

The aircraft crashed into a field just 20 minutes away from its presumed target,
the US Capitol in Washington DC.

Among the dead on that day were 343 firefighters, 37 police officers, two FBI
officers and one US secret service agent.

Security had been tightened in Washington and New York throughout the tenth
anniversary weekend.

In downtown Manhattan, crowds gathered to pay their respects to those who lost
their lives. They were joined by president at the time of the attack George W
Bush and his successor President Barack Obama, who read Psalm 46 that reminds
the faithful that God is a refuge and that strength dwells in his city.

In the crowd that had gathered outside St Paul's Chapel opposite Ground Zero,
many were reduced to tears as spouses, siblings, parents and children paid
tribute to their own lost loved one.

Tsion Evans, 51, was listening to the reading of the names. She attended with
her daughter Nia, 25, to honour the memory of friends who died in the attack.

Nia, who was in high school in 2001, said: "We are here to show there is still a
spirit and love and to support the police and fire departments. We will never
forget those who died."

Jessica Pedraza, 20, lost her uncle Edward Calderov, a New York Port Authority
employee, in the World Trade Centre attack. Just 10 years old at the time, she
said: "It still hurts because no matter how many years go by it still feels like
yesterday."

Ms Pedraza attended the ceremony dressed in her US Army uniform. She and her
mother, Marilyn Gonzalez, 43, joined the same unit in 2008 and both saw active
duty in Iraq, serving together.

At 9.59am, the bells tolled again to mark the moment that the south tower
collapsed.

Those gathered on the streets surrounding the World Trade Centre gazed upwards
to where the building once stood. A giant video screen reminded people of what
once stood there.

At the site itself, relatives of those who died walked around the memorial.

The names of all those who died in the attack - and an earlier bombing at the
site in 1993 - are carved into low walls surrounding two pools of water where
the towers once stood. The words will be lit up at night Some relatives took
rubbings of their loved ones' names, while others placed their hands on the
carved words, or placed a single rose.

Ceremonies were also held at the Pentagon, where the third plane struck, and in
Pennsylvania.

In emotional scenes the names of all those killed were read out by family
members.

LOAD-DATE: September 12, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Emotional day: A woman mourns the loss of her son who died during the
attacks at the World Trade Centre.
Startling images: United Airlines Flight 175 a split-second before it crashed
into the south tower of the World Trade Centre in New York, as smoke billows
from the north tower. Below, New Yorkers flee in panic on 9/11, 2001.
Tragedy remembered: Thousands of people paid tribute to the 9/11 victims in New
York.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: NEP


                     Copyright 2011 Nottingham Evening Post
                              All Rights Reserved

                              49 of 331 DOCUMENTS


                            Nottingham Evening Post

                           September 12, 2011 Monday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

Mother's terror in hammer attack;
Raiders drag victim upstairs by the hair

BYLINE: Guy Woodford

SECTION: NEWS; FRONT PAGE; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 216 words


A MOTHER has told of her terror after hammer-wielding criminals burst into her
home and threatened her.

The 45-year-old mum-of-five, who is too frightened to be named, was watching TV
at her home in Dulwich Road, Radford, on Saturday night when she heard a loud
banging noise.

When she went to investigate she was confronted by two balaclava-wearing men in
her hallway.

She said: "One had a hammer and grabbed my hair and put my right hand on the
banister of the stairs. He made as though he was going to hit my hand with the
hammer and kept saying 'Where's the money? "He took me up the stairs by the
hair.

The other guy was in my bedroom looking around."

The woman, who was at home with her 19-year-old daughter at the time, said
police told her they thought she was targeted by mistake and that the intruders
were actually looking for someone else.

The same men are also believed to have been responsible for another burglary in
the same street a few hours later. In the second break-in, which happened at
4.45am yesterday, a 54-year-old man was struck on the head with a baseball bat.
He needed hospital treatment for his injuries.

Police have been making houseto-house inquiries in the area and are keen to
speak to any witnesses. ¦ All calls to PC Colin Cooper on 0300 300 99 99 ext 801
5137.

Page 5

LOAD-DATE: September 12, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Crime scene: Dulwich Road in Radford, where raiders broke into two
houses.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: NEP


                     Copyright 2011 Nottingham Evening Post
                              All Rights Reserved

                              50 of 331 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                     September 12, 2011 Monday 5:44 PM GMT

American skydivers pay tribute to 9/11 victims with giant flag display;
Ten United States flags float gracefully over the American countryside as a
sky-diving team honoured the victims of the September 11, 2001 terrorist attacks
in a unique display.

LENGTH: 196 words


Photographer Norman Kent and nine members of Team Fastrax released the flags at
10.28am local time on Sunday, to coincide with the time the second World Trade
Center tower collapsed ten years ago .

The jump was carried out in Middletown, Ohio, where the team is based, after
they were barred from using airspace over New York due to terror threats.

Over 10,000 onlookers watched as the team jumped from a plane 9,500 feet above,
releasing their weighted flags seconds later.

The largest flag measured a massive 7,800 square feet - larger than the surface
of two tennis courts.

Following the jump, Mr Kent said: "It was such an emotional moment.

"The purpose of the jump was to honour all of the people whose lives were lost
during 9/11, and all of those whose lives were affected by it - which, in
different ways, includes most of the people in the world.

"Some of the jumpers are ex-military who have served in Afghanistan and Iraq, so
it was particularly poignant for them.

"There were tears as we landed. We wanted it to be a beautiful tribute."

Watch videos taken on the day and interviews with eyewitnesses caught up in the
disaster

LOAD-DATE: January 20, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTNS


                  Copyright 2011 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              51 of 331 DOCUMENTS


                                The Western Mail

                           September 12, 2011 Monday
                                 First Edition

pays tribute to Ten years after 9/11 - America terror attacks thethousands who
died in ;
COUNTRY FALLS SILENT IN THE EXACT MOMENT PLANES HIT thousands who died in

BYLINE: MATT WILLIAMS

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 1112 words


AMERICA fell silent to honour the victims of the September 11 attacks yesterday
in a series of memorial services to commemorate the 10th anniversary of the
atrocity.

In emotional scenes, the names of all those killed when terrorists flew two
passenger jets into the World Trade Centre in New York were read out by family
members.

It took the best part of two hours for all those murdered in the attacks to be
mentioned, testimony to the scale of loss caused within a similar time-frame a
decade ago.

The roll-call at the newly unveiled September 11 Memorial in Lower Manhattan was
broken by pauses of reflection coinciding with the exact times when terrorists
struck on September 11, 2001.

The first moment of silence was at 8.46am Eastern standard time (1.46pm British
summer time), the moment when the first hijacked plane slammed into a tower at
the World Trade Centre.

As the bells from nearby St Paul's Chapel were tolled, September 11 families at
the memorial and many among the large crowds that had travelled to the streets
of Lower Manhattan bowed their heads in respect.

Around the globe, people stopped at exactly the same time at separate memorials
to do likewise.

About 2,753 people died in New York on September 11, 2001, while 184 perished in
Washington when a third plane ploughed into the Pentagon.

In Pennsylvania, 40 people died after passengers - alerted to events in New York
- stormed the cockpit in a desperate bid to overpower terrorist hijackers.

The aircraft crashed into a field just 20 minutes away from its presumed target,
the US Capitol in Washington DC.

Among the dead on that day were 343 firefighters, 37 police officers, two FBI
officers and one US secret service agent.

Security had been tightened in Washington and New York throughout the 10th
anniversary weekend.

But in downtown Manhattan, thoughts were not focused on the threat of a fresh
attack.

Moreover, those gathered did so to pay their respects to those who lost their
lives.

They were joined by president at the time of the attack George W Bush and his
successor President Barack Obama, who gave a reading at the event.

But his words carried less weight than those of the relatives who read out the
names of the dead.

In the crowd that had gathered outside St Paul's Chapel opposite Ground Zero,
many were reduced to tears as spouses, siblings, parents and children paid
tribute to their own lost loved one.

Tsion Evans, 51, was among those in the crowd listening to the reading of the
names.

She attended with her daughter Nia, 25, to honour the memory of friends who died
in the attack.

Nia, who was in high school in 2001, explained: "We are here to show there is
still a lot of spirit and love. And also to support the police and fire
departments - we give our thanks to them.

"We will never forget those who died."

Jessica Pedraza, 20, lost her uncle Edward Calderov, a New York Port Authority
employee, in the World Trade Centre attack.

Just 10 years old at the time, she said today: "It still hurts because no matter
how many years go by it still feels like yesterday."

Ms Pedraza attended the ceremony dressed in her US Army uniform, as did her
mother Marilyn Gonzalez.

The 43-year-old New Yorker enlisted two years after her brother-in-law's death,
partly in response to the attack, she said.

Her daughter joined the same unit in 2008 and both saw active duty in Iraq,
serving together.

"It will always hurt," Ms Pedraza said in reference to her uncle's death.

But she added: "Hopefully today, when we get to see his name later on the
memorial, we will get closure."

As the long list of names was read, people in the crowd outside grew restless
from time to time.

But chatter stopped abruptly each time a moment's silence was observed.

At 9.59am EST, the bells tolled again to mark the moment that the south tower
collapsed.

Those gathered on the streets surrounding the World Trade Centre gazed upwards
to where the building once stood. A giant video screen reminded people of what
once stood there.

At the site itself, relatives of those who died walked around the memorial.

The names of all those who died in the attack - and an earlier bombing at the
site in 1993 - are carved into low walls surrounding two pools of water where
the towers once stood. The words will be lit up at night.

Some relatives took rubbings of their loved ones' names, while others simply
placed their hands on the carved words, or placed a single rose.

A lower-key ceremony was held at the Pentagon, where the third plane struck.

Vice-president Joe Biden looked moved as the American national anthem was
performed, and defence secretary Leon Panetta told the congregation: "Al-Qaeda
tried to weaken us, but instead it made us stronger."

A further remembrance service was held in Pennsylvania where passengers on a
fourth jet stormed the cockpit to bring the plane down.

President Obama attended all three memorials.

US FLAGS BURNED IN PROTESTERS outside the US embassy in London set fire to a US
flag during a minute's silence held to mark the moment when the first hijacked
airliner hit the World Trade Centre in New York 10 years ago.

A number of radical Islamic groups including Muslims Against Crusades (MAC)
gathered outside the embassy on the 10th anniversary of the attacks.

The group of around 100 men shouted "USA terrorists" and brandished
anti-American placards.

Earlier a group of English Defence League protesters, who had gathered in
response to the demonstration, were ordered to move on to accommodate the MAC
supporters.

The 60-strong group of EDL supporters briefly scuffled with police as they were
forced away from their original location to a different part of Grosvenor
Square.

Several members of the Muslim groups made anti-American speeches following the
flag burning.

One said: "You will always face suffering, you will always face humiliation,
unless you withdraw your troops from Muslim lands."

Another declared that America had been "defeated in Iraq and defeated in
Afghanistan".

A small group of Muslims staged a counter-demonstration nearby, holding up
placards reading "Muslims Against Extremism'" and "If You Want Sharia, Move To
Saudi".

Two Islamic protesters were later arrested near the entrance to the memorial
service and put into police vans.

Around five EDL supporters who were at the scene scuffled with police during the
brief incident.

The arrival of Boris Johnson for the service led to a brief scuffle as he made
his way alongside crash barriers containing the Muslim demonstrators.

They hurled abuse at the London Mayor and rushed towards him, forcing the police
to hurry to protect him.

LOAD-DATE: September 12, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:  ¦ Robert Peraza, who lost his son Robert David Peraza in the attacks
at the World Trade Centre, pauses at his son''s name at the North Pool of the
9/11 Memorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: wm


                    Copyright 2011 Western Mail and Echo Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                              52 of 331 DOCUMENTS


                       BBC Monitoring Africa - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                           September 13, 2011 Tuesday

Somali moderates Islamists vow to thwart "terrorist" attacks against officials

LENGTH: 154 words


Text of report by privately-owned Somali Shabeelle Media Network website on 13
September

The chairman of Ahlu Sunnah wal Jama'a [moderate Islamists] has said his group
would be vigilant of bomb explosions targeted at its officials.

Prof Hirsi Mahmud Hilo, the chairman of Ahlu Sunnah wal Jama'a, said terrorists
groups were behind the explosion targeted at their district chairman in Guri
Ceel District, central Somalia.

He said Ahlu Sunnah would be well prepared to counter future explosions in areas
under its control, adding that Ahlu Sunnah fighters would soon conduct
operations aimed beefing up security in Galguduud Region, central Somalia.

The statement made by the leader of the moderate Islamists comes a day after the
group's chairman in Guri Ceel District survived a road side bomb attack
yesterday. A number of civilians were wounded in the blast.

Source: Shabeelle Media Network website, Mogadishu, in Somali 13 Sep 11

LOAD-DATE: September 13, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2011 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              53 of 331 DOCUMENTS



                          Future News - Media Planner

                           September 13, 2011 Tuesday

U.S. continues National Emergency with respect to terrorist attacks

SECTION: NEWS; Highlight; Conflict & Terrorism

LENGTH: 59 words


U.S. extends National Emergency with respect to 9/11 terrorist attacks - on the
World Trade Center, the Pentagon, and aboard United Airlines Flight 93 - and the
continuing and immediate threat of further attacks for another year. Order,
declared on 14 Sep 2001, continued because the threat continues

Event Start Date: 2011-09-14

Event End Date: 2011-09-14

LOAD-DATE: September 13, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                             Copyright 2011 Precise
                              All Rights Reserved

                              54 of 331 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                     September 13, 2011 Tuesday 3:38 PM GMT

Al-Qaeda leader supports Arab Spring in 9/11 anniversary video;
In a video released to mark the 10th anniversary of the September 11 terrorist
attacks, Al-Qaeda's new leader Ayman al-Zawahri lauds popular uprisings in
Tunisia, Egypt and Libya.

LENGTH: 382 words


New al Qaeda leader Ayman al-Zawahri voiced support in an internet video for
popular uprisings sweeping the Middle East, saying Arabs are no longer afraid of
the United States, ten years after the country was targeted by the militant
network.

The video was posted on jihadist websites on Tuesday to mark the 10th
anniversary of al Qaeda's September 11, 2001 attacks on the United States.

"Ten years have passed since the blessed attacks on New York and Washington and
Pennsylvania: that mighty, tremendous event which shook and continues to shake
the pillars of the global crusade. Ten years have gone by, in which the Islamic
nation has had many victories, with its fighters and people, over the arrogance
of the crusaders," Zawahiri said in the hour-long recording.

Zawahri, an Egyptian who took up the reins of al Qaeda after the killing of
Osama bin Laden in May, hailed popular uprisings that have toppled leaders in
Egypt, Tunisia and Libya this year, and urged other Muslims to overthrow their
own rulers.

"America thought the Arab region was stable under its control enforced through a
number of agent rulers, who it employed, supported and put in power but then
came the powerful and blessed Arab earthquake, protesting, to turn America's
calculations head over heels. America lost Zain al-Abidin bin Ali against its
will. It lost Hosni Mubarak despite hating it, it is losing Gaddafi, Ali
Abdullah Saleh, Bashar Al-Assad, all against its will", he said.

In the 62-minute recording, titled "The Dawn of Imminent Victory", Zawahri
expressed hope the fall of Arab rulers, who he said were in thrall to the West,
would usher in an era of true Islam and sharia-based governance.

In a message to the Libyan people, Zawahri warned against Nato forces.

"Gaddafi, is over, gone, with God's will, but Nato has come from the sky and
seas and it's preparing to enter your land, so what have you prepared for
them?".

The video also included a message from Osama bin Laden, which Zawahri said was
being aired with audio for the first time. The exact date of the clip was not
clear.

In it, bin Laden warned Americans of the "tyranny" of capitalism and big
corporations, which he said were a main cause of war and had brought the United
States to the brink of bankruptcy. He did not mention the "Arab Spring".

LOAD-DATE: January 20, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTNS


                  Copyright 2011 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              55 of 331 DOCUMENTS



                            i-Independent Print Ltd

                               September 14, 2011
                                 First Edition

Terror attacks by militant settlers are on the rise;
ISRAEL

BYLINE: Catrina Stewart IN JERUSALEM

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 133 words


Shin Bet, Israel's domestic intelligence agency, says that Jewish extremists are
forming new "terrorist" groups that are deliberately targeting Palestinians and
Israeli peace activists, intelligence sources said yesterday.

There has been a sudden spike in attacks by Jewish zealots on Palestinian and
Israeli property and personnel following the Israeli army's demolition of
several homes in Migron, an illegal Jewish outpost in the West Bank, 10 days
ago. Shin Bet sources told Ha'aretz that the Jewish groups were planning
attacks, conducting surveillance of Palestinian villages, and gathering data on
Israeli activists. Settlers are suspected of defacing two Palestinian mosques,
setting fire to olive trees, torching cars and daubing graffiti on the walls of
a Palestinian university in Birzeit.

LOAD-DATE: September 13, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: III


                      Copyright 2011 Independent Print Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                              56 of 331 DOCUMENTS



                               Independent.co.uk

                    September 14, 2011 Wednesday 1:47 AM GMT

Taliban attack hits US embassy as terror brings chaos to Kabul

BYLINE: By Julius Cavendish in Kabul

SECTION: ASIA

LENGTH: 686 words


Armed insurgents and suicide bombers launched a sophisticated, multi-pronged
attack on strategic targets in the centre of Kabul yesterday in an attempt   to
derail the security handover to Afghan forces as international troops   pull out
of the country.

Militants fought their way into a half-built high-rise building and fired
rocket-propelled grenades at US and Nato diplomatic headquarters during   hours
of fighting as security forces struggled to gain control.

As explosions shook the capital, a suicide bomber blew himself up close to a
police base in the west of the city despite being shot by officers. Plumes   of
smoke rose near the embassy, and US helicopters buzzed overhead. Another
suicide bomber was shot and killed near the airport before he could detonate
his device, and a third injured four people near a police centre.

Late last night, at least two gunmen remained holed up on the top floors of an
apartment building from which they and other militants had attacked the
heavily fortified embassy.

Four Afghans were wounded when a rocket-propelled grenade hit the US
diplomatic buildings, the CIA director, David Petraeus, told congressmen.
Among the victims was a young girl who was with a group waiting for visas
outside the embassy, he said. She was evacuated to Bagram airbase, to the
north of Kabul, for treatment.

The Taliban claimed responsibility for the assault, which forced diplomats and
military officials to seek shelter and left at least seven people dead and
more than a dozen injured. One grenade landed within a few hundred metres of
the British embassy but no staff were hurt. A spokesman for the Taliban,
Zabiullah Mujahid, said in a text message sent to reporters that suicide
bombers using assault rifles were also attacking the offices of the Afghan
intelligence service.

Video footage replayed on Afghan television showed civilians fleeing during
every let-up in the shooting, some clearly wounded. "Nothing really   prepares
you for shards of twisted metal, scattered glass, victims and the   debris that
litters the streets," one witness, Mohammad Zada, told the   BBC.

The attacks are an embarrassment for the Afghan security forces, which have
responsibility for Kabul. The insurgents hope to undermine public confidence
in the country's police and army as Nato troops withdraw from Afghanistan
before a 2014 deadline to hand over responsibility for the entire country.

The assault was the second big Taliban attack in the capital in less than a
month. Suicide bombers targeted the British Council headquarters in
mid-August, killing nine people. And in June, nine insurgents wearing   suicide
vests and armed with rifles and rocket-launchers stormed the   Intercontinental
Hotel on the eve of a conference. They killed at least 12   people and held off
Nato and Afghan forces for five hours before Nato attack   helicopters and
special forces killed the last insurgents holding out on the   roof.

In Washington, the Secretary of State, Hillary Clinton, said the US would do
everything it could to combat those who committed yesterday's "cowardly
attack" in Kabul.

The White House press secretary, Jay Carney, said America would continue with
the gradual withdrawal of soldiers sent in as part of the 2009 troop surge   and
would keep training Afghan forces. "This will in no way deter our   commitment
to the mission, which is to provide for security in the country   as we work to
transition a security lead to the Afghan national security   forces," Mr Carney
said.

The Nato Secretary-General, Anders Fogh Rasmussen, echoed the statement from
the White House, saying in Brussels that the "enemies of Afghanistan"   were
trying to disrupt the handing over of security responsibility to the   Afghans.

The Afghan President, Hamid Karzai, said the attacks would not deter his
forces from assuming full responsibility for security by the time foreign
powers withdrew all of their combat troops. "By carrying out such   attacks
terrorists cannot stop the transition of security from international   to Afghan
forces," he said.

LOAD-DATE: September 14, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication


                  Copyright 2011 Independent News & Media plc
                              All Rights Reserved

                              57 of 331 DOCUMENTS


                                The Western Mail

                          September 14, 2011 Wednesday
                                 First Edition

Kabul terror attacks deal new blow to hopes of Taliban talks

BYLINE: TERRY GULL

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 580 words


FRESH terrorist attacks shook Afghanistan's capital Kabul yesterday, damaging
confidence that the Allies can begin peace talks with the Taliban.

Coordinated attacks by suicide bombers and snipers targeted the US Embassy, Nato
headquarters and other buildings in the heart of Kabul including police
buildings. Late last night, police were still exchanging fire with at least one
gunman holed up in an unfinished high-rise building overlooking the diplomatic
quarter.

The police chief in the Afghan capital said that the death toll from the
coordinated attacks had risen to six dead and 16 injured.

Nato's Secretary General Anders Fogh Rasmussen condemned the violence,
describing it as an attempt to test the handover of Afghanistan's security to
Afghan-led forces, which he said would not succeed.

"We have confidence in the Afghan authorities' ability to deal with this
situation," said Mr Rasmussen in Brussels. "Transition is on track and it will
continue."

As well as housing the US and other foreign missions, the area targeted by the
terrorists is home to a number of government ministry buildings and the
presidential palace.

A Taliban spokesman claimed responsibility for the attacks and said the group
was carrying out "a massive suicide attack on local and foreign intelligence
facilities" The attacks saw insurgents fire rockets on a number of targets in
Kabul's embassy district while in the west of the city two suicide attackers
detonated explosives.

Six gunmen also took over an unfinished high-rise building overlooking the
embassy district, and used it to fire on the Nato compound and US embassy.

The coordinated assaults carried an unsettling message to Western leaders and
their Afghan allies about the resilience and reach of the Taliban network. It
was the third major attack in the Afghan capital since late June, casting fresh
doubts on the ability of Afghans to secure their own country as foreign troops
prepare to withdraw by the end of 2014.

The American Embassy and Nato both said no staff were wounded.

At least one Afghan police officer, a civilian, and two insurgents had been
killed as gunfire and explosions resounded across the city well into the
afternoon.

The surge of violence was a stark reminder of the instability that continues to
plague Afghanistan.

Plumes of smoke rose from the area near the embassy, and US Army helicopters
buzzed overhead.

An eyewitness, Himanshu Sharma, told the BBC: "I thought it would be over in a
few minutes, but then one hour and then two hours and then three hours passed -
it was just not stopping.

"The gunshots were increasing, and their intensity was increasing.

They were using more deadly weapons."

He added: "There is no security at all in Kabul. This is the safest area, and if
we are not safe here, then we are not safe anywhere in Afghanistan."

Kabul police said at least seven insurgents were involved in the attacks around
the city. Four were involved in the attack from the building and three attempted
to carry out suicide attacks.

Violence in the once-quiet capital has escalated in recent months.

On August 18 Taliban suicide bombers stormed a British compound killing eight
people during an eight-hour firefight. On June 29, nine insurgents wearing
suicide vests stormed the Intercontinental Hotel armed with rifles and rocket
launchers on the eve of a major conference on Afghan governance.

They killed at least 12 people and held off Nato and Afghan forces for five
hours.

LOAD-DATE: September 14, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: wm


                    Copyright 2011 Western Mail and Echo Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                              58 of 331 DOCUMENTS



                                  M2 PressWIRE

                          September 15, 2011 Thursday

With pledge to continue its work, UN honours those who died in Nigerian terror
attack

LENGTH: 291 words


September 15, 2011

With calls to persevere through adversity, the United Nations held a memorial
ceremony in Abuja, the Nigerian capital, today for the staff members who died
when its offices there were attacked by a suicide bomber last month.



"At this time of sorrow and loss, let us pledge to honour their sacrifice by
continuing to make the UN presence in Nigeria a beacon of peace and hope,"
Secretary-General Ban Ki-moon said in a message delivered by UN Resident
Coordinator in Nigeria Daouda Touré.

Eleven UN staff members and 12 other people died and 116 were injured in the 26
August attack.

"This terrorist attack showed utter disregard for human life," Mr. Ban said. "It
was an assault not just on our premises, but on our values and our work. There
can be no justification for such wanton killing and destruction."

He noted that the 11 UN victims, who came from the UN Development Programme (
UNDP ), World Health Organization ( WHO ), UN Children's Fund ( UNICEF ), UN
Programme on HIV/AIDS ( UNAIDS ) and UN Office on Drugs and Crime ( UNODC ),
were concerned only with helping Nigeria's poor and vulnerable, and supporting
the country in addressing its varied challenges.

He commended all UN personnel in Nigeria for "the admirable resolve with which
you are continuing your work and adapting to the new and more difficult
circumstances in which we must now operate.

"Our work is with people, and would suffer if we are confined to a fortress-like
environment. Yet our work also depends crucially on safety. That is the
conundrum we face; that is the balance we must strive to find," he added.

"The lives we mourn today personify the deep commitment that characterizes the
work of the United Nations in Nigeria and globally."

LOAD-DATE: September 15, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newswire

JOURNAL-CODE: M2PW


                      Copyright 2011 Normans Media Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              59 of 331 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                    September 15, 2011 Thursday 6:14 AM GMT

Lashkar-e-Taiba commander killed in Kashmir gun battle;
Indian forces battled with separatist rebels in Kashmir and killed one of the
leaders of a group that was blamed for the deadly 2008 Mumbai terror attack,
police said on Wednesday.

LENGTH: 314 words


Lashkar-e-Taiba commander Abdullah Uni was killed late on Tuesday in a town near
Srinagar, the main city in the Indian-controlled portion of Kashmir, area police
Chief Imtiyaz Hussain said.

Uni, a Pakistani citizen, had planned and carried out attacks against Indian
troops, politicians and civilians since 2005, when he entered Indian-held
Kashmir from the Pakistan-controlled side of the divided Himalayan region,
Hussain said.

He was "the most wanted militant, and our target No. 1 among all the active
militants in Kashmir," said senior police officer Shiv Murari Sahai, calling
Uni's death a "severe blow" to Lashkar-e-Taiba.

The rebel group has not confirmed Uni's death and representatives were not
available for comment.

Lashkar-e-Taiba is one of a number of groups fighting since 1989 for Kashmir's
independence or merger with Pakistan. It has been blamed for several attacks in
India including the 2008 siege that killed 166 people in Mumbai. India accuses
Pakistan of supporting the group even though it is officially banned there.

Indian forces launched Tuesday's operation to capture Uni after receiving a tip
that he was in the town of Sopore.

Sahai said Uni, as the group's top commander in Indian-controlled Kashmir,
handled the group's finances and "would also motivate and recruit people into
Lashkar."

Police accused him of involvement in the April assassination of Kashmiri
religious leader Moulvi Showkat Ahmed Shah, who headed the puritanical group
Jamiat-e-ahle Hadith. Lashkar-e-Taiba denied any role in the killing, instead
accusing another almost-defunct militant group in a rare instance of blaming
fellow rebels.

India accuses Pakistan of funding and training the separatist militants.
Islamabad denies that and says it gives only moral and diplomatic support.

More than 68,000 people, most of them civilians, have been killed in the armed
conflict in Indian Kashmir.

LOAD-DATE: January 20, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTNS


                  Copyright 2011 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              60 of 331 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring South Asia - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                           September 16, 2011 Friday

Afghan daily blames security agencies for failing to terror attacks in Kabul

LENGTH: 494 words


Text of editorial entitled: "When will the security vacuum be filled in Kabul?"
by independent Afghan newspaper Cheragh on 14 September

Following the terrorist attacks on the British Council a few days back, the
Afghan capital city has once again come under massive terrorist attacks
yesterday [13 September]. These attacks have once again raised the question
about when security vacuum will be filled in in Kabul, where insecurity has
recently reached to its climax and the issue of insecurity has turned into a
national crisis with the presence of a huge number of national and international
forces.

It seems as if years after working on Afghan security and intelligence forces,
they are still unable to identify factors and the cells behind insecurity in the
centre of the government's power and authority and still despite the heavy
presence of national and international forces, the terrorists cross security
circles and by challenging the security of the citizens of the capital city and
mocking the government's dignity, they commit unforgettable crimes in the
country.

If one assesses the nature of most of the suicide and guerrilla attacks in
Kabul, almost all of them have been carried out using a unique tactic. The first
of this kind was carried out on the Kabul Serena Hotel back in 2008.This means
that during the last four years, the opponents, disguised in military or police
uniforms, have carried out several attacks in Kabul and resisted either till
they were killed by the security forces or they managed to carry out their
suicide attack. Although this tactic has become a little bit outdated, the
precautionary measures of security and intelligence forces to cope with these
tactics also failed and outdated.

One of the fundamental challenges is the fact that the intelligence agencies,
instead of performing their duties very secretly, propagate for themselves and
have changed intelligence work with media or their work was symbolic. It also
seems as if there exists no systematic and comprehensive coordination among the
security and intelligence agencies of domestic and international security
forces. In many cases, lack of systematic coordination between the security
organizations results in creating security vacuums in the country and prepares
the way for terrorist activities.

Undoubtedly, another major problem in the government's defence and security
apparatus is corruption that has paved the way for terrorists to infiltrate
security belts. Therefore, transferring weapons and explosives and most
importantly planning such an attack require a long time and many resources.

It should be recalled that ensuring security in Kabul has various aspects that
needs the government's serious attention. The government should be very careful
while appointing security and intelligence personnel. The government should also
be very careful in identifying exact factors behind insecurity in the country.

Source: Cheragh, Kabul, in Dari 14 Sep 11 p 2

LOAD-DATE: September 16, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2011 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              61 of 331 DOCUMENTS


                                  Daily Record

                           September 16, 2011, Friday

SCARF CHOKE TERROR;
ATTACK THUG CAGED

BYLINE: Sally Hind

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 26

LENGTH: 157 words


A THUG who throttled a woman he had just met with her own scarf was yesterday
jailed for five years.

David Ingham, 35, subjected Helen Hird, 25, to a horrifying attack during which
she claims he told her the only way she would leave his home was chopped up into
pieces.

Earlier this month, Ingham, who has eight convictions for assault, was found
guilty of trapping Helen in his flat in Menzies Road, Aberdeen, grabbing her,
holding her down and threatening to kill her.

He then throttled her with her scarf until she lost consciousness - injuring her
and endangering her life on March 4 this year.

Helen previously told Aberdeen Sheriff Court she had gone to Ingham's flat for a
drink but he attacked her when she tried to leave.

She said she "begged for her life" and thought she was going to die when he told
her: "Breathe your last breath."

Sheriff Malcolm Garden ordered Ingham to spend another three years on licence
after his five years in jail.

LOAD-DATE: September 16, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: BRUTAL ¦ Thug Ingham

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


            Copyright 2011 Scottish Daily Record & Sunday Mail Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              62 of 331 DOCUMENTS



                            Evening Times (Glasgow)

                           September 16, 2011 Friday
                                   2 Edition

U.S. fears over  lone wolf  terror attacks

BYLINE: NO BYLINE

SECTION: FOR; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 139 words


UNITED STATES: Former members of the 9/11 commission warned that despite efforts
to make cities safer from terrorist attacks, the US remains vulnerable to
cyberterrorism and  lone wolf  attackers.

Committee members said the US had failed to protect itself in at least three key
areas and must develop better bomb detection technology, improve radio equipment
to allow police and fire services to better communicate and introduce a national
ID card that could help prevent terrorists entering the country.

Former Illinois governor James Thompson said he feared terrorists could hack
into computers, crippling banks, businesses and key utilities while throwing the
nation into disarray.

You read stories day after day about some 18-year-old hacker getting in and
playing havoc with banks, so think about what rogue states might do,  he said.

LOAD-DATE: September 16, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: ET


                      Copyright 2011 Newsquest Media Group
                              All Rights Reserved

                              63 of 331 DOCUMENTS



                            Evening Times (Glasgow)

                           September 16, 2011 Friday
                                   1 Edition

US fears over  lone wolf  terror attacks

BYLINE: NO BYLINE

SECTION: FOR; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 139 words


UNITED STATES: Former members of the 9/11 commission warned that despite efforts
to make cities safer from terrorist attacks, the US remains vulnerable to
cyberterrorism and  lone wolf  attackers.

Committee members said the US had failed to protect itself in at least three key
areas and must develop better bomb detection technology, improve radio equipment
to allow police and fire services to better communicate and introduce a national
ID card that could help prevent terrorists entering the country.

Former Illinois governor James Thompson said he feared terrorists could hack
into computers, crippling banks, businesses and key utilities while throwing the
nation into disarray.

You read stories day after day about some 18-year-old hacker getting in and
playing havoc with banks, so think about what rogue states might do,  he said.

LOAD-DATE: September 16, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: ET


                      Copyright 2011 Newsquest Media Group
                              All Rights Reserved

                              64 of 331 DOCUMENTS



                            Evening Times (Glasgow)

                           September 16, 2011 Friday
                                   2 Edition

U.S. fears over  lone wolf  terror attacks

BYLINE: NO BYLINE

SECTION: FOR; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 139 words


UNITED STATES: Former members of the 9/11 commission warned that despite efforts
to make cities safer from terrorist attacks, the US remains vulnerable to
cyberterrorism and  lone wolf  attackers.

Committee members said the US had failed to protect itself in at least three key
areas and must develop better bomb detection technology, improve radio equipment
to allow police and fire services to better communicate and introduce a national
ID card that could help prevent terrorists entering the country.

Former Illinois governor James Thompson said he feared terrorists could hack
into computers, crippling banks, businesses and key utilities while throwing the
nation into disarray.

You read stories day after day about some 18-year-old hacker getting in and
playing havoc with banks, so think about what rogue states might do,  he said.

LOAD-DATE: October 1, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: ET


                      Copyright 2011 Newsquest Media Group
                              All Rights Reserved

                              65 of 331 DOCUMENTS



                            Evening Times (Glasgow)

                           September 16, 2011 Friday
                                   1 Edition

US fears over  lone wolf  terror attacks

BYLINE: NO BYLINE

SECTION: FOR; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 139 words


UNITED STATES: Former members of the 9/11 commission warned that despite efforts
to make cities safer from terrorist attacks, the US remains vulnerable to
cyberterrorism and  lone wolf  attackers.

Committee members said the US had failed to protect itself in at least three key
areas and must develop better bomb detection technology, improve radio equipment
to allow police and fire services to better communicate and introduce a national
ID card that could help prevent terrorists entering the country.

Former Illinois governor James Thompson said he feared terrorists could hack
into computers, crippling banks, businesses and key utilities while throwing the
nation into disarray.

You read stories day after day about some 18-year-old hacker getting in and
playing havoc with banks, so think about what rogue states might do,  he said.

LOAD-DATE: October 1, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: ET


                      Copyright 2011 Newsquest Media Group
                              All Rights Reserved

                              66 of 331 DOCUMENTS



                         The Evening Standard (London)

                           September 16, 2011 Friday

PASSENGERS IN STRANDED TUBE TRAIN FEARED TERRORIST ATTACK

BYLINE: MIRANDA BRYANT AND DICK MURRAY

LENGTH: 421 words


PASSENGERS caught up in Jubilee line chaos near Bond Street told today how they
feared there had been a Tube terrorist attack.

Carriages filled with thick dust following reports of a loud noise from outside
the train. Passengers said the driver had "no idea" about the problems until one
of them ran to bang on his window when the train reached Bond Street station.

As reported in final editions of the Evening Standard yesterday, two other
trains with 700 people on board were stranded in tunnels for up to an hour and a
half. Passengers had to be walked along tracks to safety.

The incident happened when heavy power cable crashed on to the track, where they
caused a short circuit. A train then hit the cables, bringing the line to a stop
in central London. When one train arrived at Bond Street the platform filled
with dust -- thought by passengers to be smoke -- so thick that commuters said
they could not see the ground.

Television presenter Layla Anna-Lee ran to the front of the train to try to
alert the driver. The 28-year-old from West Hampstead, who was on her way to
West Ham to visit a friend, said her first thought was that the train had been
the target of a terrorist attack. She said: "It was quite a light smoke at first
but then it got thicker and I realised it wasn't good. It was quite eerie. There
were a couple of men who started panicking then there was quite a weird noise
that sounded like plates of steel being rubbed together. "At first I thought it
was terrorists and you could see other passengers thought that too. I walked
towards the first carriage to tell the driver, I knocked on the door and he
didn't hear me so when it stopped I got outside and banged on his window and
told him the carriage was absolutely full of smoke." She said the driver started
to panic as smoke filled the platform. She added: "When he saw the smoke he
said, 'Oh my God, the traction'. He got on the radio and they started to
manually open each door." The power cable fell after a rusted bracket supporting
it broke. Tube bosses admitted they knew of "corrosion" problems caused by water
seepage in that area of the tunnel. A spokesman said they were aware of a
general problem and had started remedial work but did not know about the
particular poor state of the bracket which broke. Bob Crow, the RMT union
leader, said: "There is impossible pressure on maintenance staff. This is a
result of the cuts programme. Not enough staff are in place to carry out what
are clearly essential works."

© London Evening Standard

LOAD-DATE: September 16, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright  2011   Evening Standard Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              67 of 331 DOCUMENTS


                       Evening Chronicle (Newcastle, UK)

                           September 16, 2011 Friday

Terror And Lots Of Laughs As Aliens Attack The City

BYLINE: Sarah Mullaney

SECTION: B; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 284 words


ATTACK THE BLOCK

(Cert 15, 84 mins, Optimum Home Entertainment, Sci-Fi/Comedy/Action, also
available to buy DVD £19.99/Blu-ray & DVD Combi-pack £24.99) Starring: John
Boyega, Alex Esmail, Franz Drameh, Leeon Jones, Simon Howard, Jodie Whittaker,
Nick Frost, Luke Treadaway, Jumayn Hunter.

TRAINEE nurse Sam (Jodie Whittaker) is mugged on her way home by wayward lads
Moses (John Boyega), Pest (Alex Esmail), Dennis (Franz Drameh), Jerome (Leeon
Jones) and Biggz (Simon Howard).

The assault is cut short by a meteor shower and, when the youths investigate,
they face a creature from another world. The kids slay the snarling beastie and
drag its lifeless, furry carcass to the top-floor drug den run by Hi-Hatz
(Jumayn Hunter) and his layabout doorman, Ron (Nick Frost).

A second downpour of meteors heralds more creatures and the lads gleefully grab
weapons and leap on to bicycles and mopeds. Attack The Block is a riotous comedy
from writer-director Joe Cornish, with energetic action sequences in and around
the tower block, and hilarious one-liners.

Cornish plays fast and loose with conventions of the genre and he doesn't think
twice about sacrificing some of his young protagonists to the creatures to
underline the clear and present danger.

Transforming young people  who are demonised by society  into the unlikely
saviours of the hour is a nice touch. The cast, mostly first-timers, have an
appealing rawness in front of the camera and Frost and Luke Treadaway   playing
one of Ron's posh punters   create a goofy double act. For every generous splash
of blood there is usually a belly laugh. In space, no one can hear you scream
but in south London they can ... they just choose to ignore you.

LOAD-DATE: September 16, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


               Copyright 2011 Newcastle Chronicle & Journal Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              68 of 331 DOCUMENTS


                             Paisley Daily Express

                           September 16, 2011 Friday
                                 First Edition

TOUCHING TRIBUTE TO TWIN TOWERS TERROR ATTACK VICTIMS;
JOHNSTONE NEWS ROUND-UP By Derek Parker  History group remember atrocity 10
years on

BYLINE: Derek Parker

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 393 words


HERITAGE enthusiasts in Johnstone have paid their own tribute to victims of the
terror attack on New York's Twin Towers which took place a decade ago.

Members of Johnstone History Society organised a guided walk round the town in
conjunction with Renfrewshire Doors Open Day.

And, because the event coincided with the 10th anniversary of the terrorist
outrage in which nearly 3,000 people died, part of the walk was dedicated to the
memory of the victims.

The 25 participants in the excursion were reminded of Johnstone's historic links
with the USA and of emigrants from the town who helped to build the young
republic.

These included General Sam Houston, who was prominent in the Texan struggle for
independence from Mexico during the 19th century.

The original "Uncle Sam," General Houston was descended from the Houstoun
family, who were the lairds of Johnstone during four centuries.

The city of Houston, in Texas, was named after him.

Other Johnstonians who left their marks on the USA include Donald McCallum, who
was manager of military railroads during the American Civil War.

He was promoted to the rank of general by President Abraham Lincoln.

Also prominent was mining engineer James Braidwood, who worked as a child
labourer in the Quarrelton coalfields. He became a mining engineer in Illinois
state and had the town of Braidwood named after him.

During last weekend's commemorations of the Twin Towers disaster, the Statue of
Liberty was a constant backdrop to the acts of remembrance.

The foundation stone of this iconic landmark was laid by Kilbarchan man William
Brodie in 1876 to commemorate the 100th anniversary of the American republic.

Brodie laid the stone in his capacity of Grand Master of New York State Masonic
Lodge, which led the celebrations.

He later returned to Kilbarchan, where he became a member of the village's Lodge
St Barchan No 156.

His return was inspired by reading an article in the Paisley Daily Express about
the death of his friend Matthew Houston.

Brodie wanted to pay his respects to Houston's family.

The Johnstone History Society walk and tributes were led by Express columnist
Derek Parker.

Other Doors Open Day attractions in the town included Johnstone Castle,
Johnstone High Parish Church, St John's Scottish Episcopal Church and the
Ballast Trust, which catalogues industrial archives.

LOAD-DATE: September 16, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:  DISASTER: The World Trade Center

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: pe


                           Copyright 2011 MGN Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              69 of 331 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring Middle East - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                          September 17, 2011 Saturday

Iraqi premier orders probe into terror attack in Al-Nukhayb; roundup 16 Sep

LENGTH: 791 words


Al-Iraqiyah Satellite Television in Arabic, in its evening newscasts on 16
September, reports on the orders by Nuri al-Maliki, supreme commander of the
Iraqi Armed Forces, for the punishment of those who are responsible for the
oversights that permitted the Al-Nukhayb incident to occur and the
reconsideration of the security plans for the highways; the protests in
Al-Tahrir Square this morning that denounced Al-Nukhayb and Al-Shumali
incidents, in which scores of Iraqis were martyred, and demanded improved
services and the release of the detainees "whose hands were not stained with
Iraqi blood"; the order by Acting Defence Minister Sa'dun al-Dulaymi for an
immediate investigation into the exchange of gunfire between the convoy of
Ninawa Governor Athil al-Nujayfi and a police patrol; and other political
developments.

Political developments:

In its 1300 gmt newscast, the channel carried the following reports:

-  "Nuri al-Maliki, supreme commander of the Iraqi Armed Forces, has ordered the
punishment of those who are responsible for the oversights that permitted the
Al-Nukhayb incident to occur and the reconsideration of the security plans for
the highways. The office of the supreme commander stated today that Al-Maliki
ordered an investigation to punish those who are responsible for the oversights
that permitted the occurrence of the Al-Nukhayb incident, in which 22 people who
were riding a bus heading to Syria were martyred in the Al-Anbar Governorate.
Al-Maliki stressed the importance of reconsidering the security plans on the
highways, especially those leading to neighbouring countries."

-  "Kurdistan Alliance MP Hasan Jihad has announced that an unofficial
delegation has been sent to Baghdad to survey the positions regarding the Arbil
agreement. In a statement published on the KA website, Jihad stated that the
unofficial delegation will meet with Prime Minister Nuri al-Maliki to inquire
about his position regarding the implementation of the Arbil agreement articles.
Jihad stated that the talks will discuss many laws, such as the Oil and Gas Law,
article 140, the Peshmerga, and the power sharing in the government's
institutions."

In its 1700 gmt newscast, the channel carries the following reports:

-  "The Al-Tahrir Square protestors denounced this morning the Al-Nukhayb and
Al-Shumali incidents, in which scores of Iraqis were martyred. The protestors
also demanded the improvement of services and the release of the detainees whose
hands were not stained with Iraqi blood. Jalal al-Shahmani, head of the Free
Youth Coalition, demanded the punishment of the perpetrators of the Al-Nukhayb
incident, who are trying to return Iraq to sectarian violence."

-  "Within the aftermath of the Al-Nukhayb incident, Prime Minister Nuri
al-Maliki has said that the Al-Nukhayb victims were in same boat, whether they
were Shi'i or Sunni, in the same Iraq. In a televised interview, Al-Maliki
stated that followed-up the case until a late hour. He states that confusion,
misunderstandings, and attempts to sow dissent have occurred after a number of
suspects were apprehended. The apprehended individuals have now been sent to
Baghdad for interrogation. Al-Maliki denounced the irresponsible statements that
may escalate tensions between the Karbala and Al-Anbar governorates, stressing
that he will not permit ill talk about any Iraqi city. Al-Maliki also stressed
that the perpetrators of the crime have no morals or manners, since they blocked
the path of innocent travellers in the middle of the desert, and he indicated
that they do not differentiate between one sect or another."

-  "Ahmad al-Safi, representative of the religious authority in Karbala, warned
against attempts to stir a sectarian war by political parties that are backed by
foreign agendas. Al-Safi stated that the Iraqi people want all the politicians
to become brothers, such as it is with all its sects and in all its
governorates. Al-Safi also warned of a number of media outlets that aim to
escalate tensions."

-  "Acting Defence Minister Sa'dun al-Dulaymi has ordered an immediate
investigation into the exchange of gunfire between the convoy of Ninawa Governor
Athil al-Nujayfi and a police patrol. Staff General Muhammad al-Askari, media
adviser to the Defence Ministry, stated that Al-Dulaymi ordered an investigation
into the implications of the incident. Al-Nujayfi had stated that a fight had
occurred between a member of his protection team and an officer from the
checkpoint in question this evening, leading to a discharge of machinegun fire
by one of the checkpoint officers on the vehicle containing Al-Nujayfi, leading
to the wounding of one of the protection team members."

Source: Al-Iraqiyah TV, Baghdad, in Arabic 1300 gmt 16 Sep 11

LOAD-DATE: September 17, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2011 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              70 of 331 DOCUMENTS


                              The Plymouth Herald

                          September 17, 2011 Saturday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

MY TERROR AS I FOUGHT OFF SEX ATTACKER;
Traumatised teenager told 'You are going to be raped'

BYLINE: CARL EVE

SECTION: NEWS; FRONT PAGE; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 639 words


A YOUNG woman who was subjected to a terrifying attempted rape has spoken of the
traumatic incident as police release CCTV images of a man they want to question.

The 18-year-old, who cannos t be named for legal reasons, frequently broke down
in tears as she described the assault which took place in the city's clubland
shortly after 1am on Bank Holiday Monday, August 29. The teenager said she was
out celebrating with friends when she became briefly separated from the larger
group. She told police that while she was in the area of the Octagon she was
grabbed by a man who dragged her towards Rendle Street and into a service lane.
She said the man put his arm around her neck "like a headlock", forcing her into
the deserted lane. Crying as she recalled the assault, she said: "He shoved me
to the floor, threw himself on top of me. "He had a foreign accent, but he only
said one line - 'you're gonna get raped'.

"He put his hand over my mouth. I was screaming, 'help me, someone help me'. I
was kicking him, struggling." The girl sobbed as she spoke of her desperate
fight to break free while he tore at her clothes. "I was really kicking and
screaming. I was really, really petrified. I was fighting for my dignity. You
don't think of anything else when you're put in a position like this. I was
thinking 'I've got to get out of this n From page 1 SCENE: Above, the alley
where the attack took place. Right, an image of a man police want to identify
situation'. I felt like I was fighting for my life. I just didn't want it [what
the suspect said] to happen to me." As he tried to put his hand back over her
mouth to stifle her screams, she bit down hard, causing him to stop his attack
and run off towards Alice Street. "I was crying. I tried to phone the police but
my battery went so I came out of the service lane. I saw a friend - they'd been
looking for me. I shouted out and collapsed on a wall. "I felt ashamed and
scared. I felt like blaming myself - asking if I had done something to deserve
this, perhaps if I ha dn't worn the clothes I wore." One of her group called
police, yet even their arrival did not alleviate her terror. "Even then", she
sobbed, "I was scared he would come back. There were flats all around. Why would
no-one look out their window, take a look? I was screaming. "I can't sleep now.
When I sleep I can feel his hand, feel like he's suffocating me. I wake up
crying to my mum. "I can't stop thinking about it. I keep thinking about him on
me. I don't want to go out. I do n't feel safe. It changes everything in your
life. "Anybody who knows who might have done this should call police. It
could've been someone else's life that's changed. He could hurt somebody next
time. They may not be as lucky." Det Insp Mike Cooper said the man shown in the
latest CCTV stills was seen drinking earlier in the night at the Union Rooms.

He said CCTV operatives also recorded him following the young woman into Rendle
Street. Det Insp Cooper said: "We 're very keen to hear from this man or anyone
who recognises him. Officers have done numerous inquiries with pubs, clubs and
takeaways, gathering images of this man. "We know the man pictured was seen a
few moments after the incident took place, running to the back of King Street
flats and the rear of Flora Court flats. It's possible this man had a good
knowledge of the area, which means he may either live or work nearby." Earlier
in the investigation, having arrested and released a man on bail, Det Insp
Cooper explained: "Just because someone has been arrested, it doesn't mean
inquiries have stopped." If you can assist police call them on 08452 777444 or
call Crimestoppers anonymously on 0800 555111 quoting police log number log 239
of 16/9/11 n A 26-year-old man arrested on suspicion of attempted rape was
released on police bail until November 21.

LOAD-DATE: September 17, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: INVESTIGATION: A CCTV picture of a man police would like to interview
in connection with the incident

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: PLH


                       Copyright 2011 The Plymouth Herald
                              All Rights Reserved

                              71 of 331 DOCUMENTS


                      Western Morning News (Plymouth, UK)

                          September 17, 2011 Saturday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

America 'remains at risk of terror attacks'

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 74 words


Former members of the 9/11 commission have warned that, despite efforts to make
American cities safer from terrorist attacks, the US remains vulnerable to
cyber-terrorism and "lone wolf " attackers. Committee members said the US had
failed to protect itself in at least three key areas and must develop better
bomb detection technology, improve radio communications between police and fire
services and introduce a national identification card.

LOAD-DATE: September 17, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: WMN


                 Copyright 2011 Western Morning News (Plymouth)
                              All Rights Reserved

                              72 of 331 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring Middle East - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                           September 20, 2011 Tuesday

Saudi trial of terror cell accused of "planning" attacks on US forces resumes

LENGTH: 176 words


Text of report in English by Saudi state-owned official news agency SPA website

["Competent Criminal Court Resumes Considering Lawsuit against 41 Persons" - SPA
headline]

Riyadh, Shawwal 21, 1432, Sep 19, 2011, SPA - The Competent Criminal Court today
resumed considering a lawsuit filed by the prosecution against Saudi (38),
Qatari (1), Yemeni (1) and Afghan (1) nationals.

They were accused of establishing a terrorist cell to use the territory of the
Kingdom of Saudi Arabia in planning and preparing terrorist operations against
US troops in Qatar and Kuwait; financing the fight in Iraq and Afghanistan;
recruiting individuals for Al-Qa'idah in Iraq; and creating a border crossing
point between the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia and Iraq through which they send
recruits, fighters, weapons and money.

Nine of the accused appeared before the court at today's session, the third
session.

This session was attended by a representative of the Human Rights Commission and
a number of media correspondents.

Source: SPA news agency website, Riyadh, in English 19 Sep 11

LOAD-DATE: September 20, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2011 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              73 of 331 DOCUMENTS


                       BBC Monitoring Africa - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                           September 20, 2011 Tuesday

Uganda on alert over chemical terror attack threat

LENGTH: 240 words


Text of report by Henry Mukasa entitled "Police warns of biological terror
attack" published by state-owned, mass-circulation Ugandan daily The New Vision
website on 20 September

Security is alert in anticipation of a biological or chemical terrorism attack
on the country, the police counter-terrorism squad boss, Abas Byakagaba, has
said.

Speaking at a pass-out ceremony for security officials who completed a one-week
Chemical, Biological, Radiological and Nuclear awareness course at Protea Hotel,
Kampala on Friday [16 September], Byakagaba warned that an imminent attack would
be costly, so they were not taking any chances.

Byakagaba, who is also the Assistant Inspector General of Police, said the
police would ensure that the knowledge acquired is disseminated to all policemen
so that such an attack is avoided.

The one-week training was conducted by officials from the US as part of the
Anti-Terrorism Assistance Programme from the US State department.

The programme seeks to increase the ability of foreign law enforcement and
security officials to counter terrorism. It was initiated in 1983.

Byakagaba said the biggest threat to Uganda was abandoned sources of nuclear
substances lying among the public.

The US Ambassador, Jerry P. Lanier, said the training was intended to increase
the proficiency of security forces to respond to and mitigate effects of nuclear
incidents.

Source: The New Vision website, Kampala, in English 20 Sep 11

LOAD-DATE: September 20, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2011 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              74 of 331 DOCUMENTS


                                  Daily Record

                          September 20, 2011, Tuesday

7 HELD IN TERROR SWOOP;
ARRESTS AMID FEARS OF ATTACK PLAN HOUSE LINKED TO BEHEADING THREAT EXTREMIST
SEARCHED

BYLINE: Richard Smith

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 410 words


ANTI-TERROR police yesterday made seven arrests in a series of raids.

One of the houses hit in Birmingham has links to a man jailed for plotting to
kidnap and behead a serving British soldier.

Cops held six men aged between 25 and 32 and a 22-year-old woman in a probe into
suspected Islamic extremism.

They were arrested on suspicion of the "commission, preparation or instigation"
of an act of terrorism in the UK.

One of the addresses searched is linked to Mohammed Irfan, who planned to kidnap
a Muslim British soldier and behead him live on the internet as a warning to
other Muslims.

Irfan, 34, was jailed for four years in 2008 but released after less than two
years.

It is not believed he was arrested in the raids yesterday. But forensics experts
were searching the address in the Ward End area where he was recently known to
live.

Police denied the raids were linked to al-Qaeda or a plot involving the Lib Dem
party conference being staged at the city's International Convention Centre.

Local Labour MP Khalid Mahmood said: "As far as I am led to believe, there was a
significant risk of a very serious plot being hatched.

"It is a major concern that these things are still going on in our community."

The six men were arrested by unarmed officers at or near their homes in the
Moseley, Sparkbrook, Sparkhill, Ward End and Balsall Heath areas of the city. A
22-year-old woman from Saltley was also arrested on suspicion of failing to
disclose information contrary to the Terrorism Act 2000.

A spy plane hovered above the city just hours before the raids took place.

Specialist teams searched the homes of all seven people arrested.

Officers were also checking six other homes and one business premises.

The homes raided included an endterrace house in Turner Street, Sparkbrook,
which locals claim three families share.

RELIGIOUS A neighbour said: "They're a very religious group. They keep
themselves to themselves. The wives are all white with Asian husbands."

Another neighbour said: "It's rubbish - they're a nice family. They're not
terrorists. They can't be."

Officers also searched a green Volkswagen car parked in a nearby street.

Police refused to reveal any details of the alleged plot.

Assistant Chief Constable Marcus Beale said: "The operation is in its early
stages so we are unable to go into detail at this time about the nature of the
suspected offences.

"However, I believe it was necessary to take action at this time in order to
ensure public safety."

LOAD-DATE: September 20, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: SEIZED¦ Forensic officers load up a car

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


            Copyright 2011 Scottish Daily Record & Sunday Mail Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              75 of 331 DOCUMENTS



                          The Guardian - Final Edition

                           September 20, 2011 Tuesday

Front: Police arrest seven to foil mass-casualty terrorist attack: Detectives
believe alleged plot was at advanced stage Six men and one woman held in
Birmingham raids

BYLINE: Vikram Dodd Richard Norton-Taylor

SECTION: GUARDIAN HOME PAGES; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 627 words


Counter-terrorism officers have arrested six men amid fears that a mass-casualty
attack on the British mainland was at an "advanced stage" of planning, the
Guardian has learned.

The arrests were made in Birmingham, where six young men were held on suspicion
of preparing terrorist acts and a 22-year-old woman was arrested on suspicion of
failing to disclose information.

Police say the alleged plot, which they believe to be al-Qaida inspired, was
thwarted after counter-terrorism officials received or developed intelligence
about the men.

The arrests took place on Sunday, with the last suspect detained at about 1am
this morning. The raids took place in several deprived areas of the city which
have sizeable Muslim populations.

The Liberal Democrat conference, which is taking place in Birmingham, was not a
target.

West Midlands police said it had led a "major counter-terrorism operation" which
was intelligence-led. The operation involved the domestic security service, MI5,
with officers from Scotland Yard's counter-terrorism command supporting the
Birmingham-based force.

The terrorist threat level for the UK remained at "substantial" after the
arrests. It was lowered from the higher level of "severe" in July.

The arrests, described as "significant", suggest the intelligence surrounding
them is sufficient to meet the standards required for court evidence.

Whitehall sources described it as a "major intelligence-led operation" and added
that the latest arrests showed the threat from extremist Islamist ideology had
not evaporated despite the deaths of Osama bin Laden and other leading al-Qaida
figures in US drone strikes on the Pakistan-Afghanistan border.

Some past British counter-terrorism raids have seen the authorities embarrassed
and have caused harm to community relations when intelligence turned out to be
wrong. West Midlands police has tended to adopt a policy of releasing minimal
information.

Police say the arrests were made by unarmed officers, indicating that there was
no expectation of finding explosives or weapons. Searches were continuing
yesterday across Birmingham, where 14 addresses were being checked by officers.
One car was seen being taken away.

Police said they had seized computer equipment from the addresses and that it
could take some time to examine.

The six men were arrested on suspicion of the commission, preparation or
instigation of an act of terrorism in the UK. They were aged 25 to 32. All are
British citizens and some are believed to be of Pakistani heritage.

Police said they were arrested "at or in the vicinity of their home addresses".
Counter-terrorism raids are usually conducted before dawn. The fact that police
moved when some suspects were not at home, and the time the arrests were made,
suggest there was a rushed element to the action.

The usual police policy is to let suspected terrorist plots develop in order to
gather evidence to gain convictions in the courts, balanced against the risk a
plot may pose to public safety.

The decision on what action should be taken is believed to have been made at an
executive liaison group where police and MI5 meet to discuss major operations.

Police also confirmed that a 22-year-old woman from Saltley, Birmingham, had
been arrested at 6.30am on suspicion of failing to disclose information.

West Midlands police said the "large-scale operation" had been running for some
time, adding that the action was necessary "in order to ensure public safety".

Assistant Chief Constable Marcus Beale said speculation over potential targets
or the identity of the suspects was "neither fair to them or to any judicial
process which may or may not follow".

Captions:

Police remove a car from one of the addresses they searched. They said they also
seized computer equipment

LOAD-DATE: September 20, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2011 Guardian Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              76 of 331 DOCUMENTS



                            i-Independent Print Ltd

                               September 20, 2011
                                 First Edition

Seven held in police raid to forestall 'terror' attacks;
SECURITY

BYLINE: Jonathan Brown

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 348 words


Anti-terror police have arrested seven people after a long-running intelligence
operation into a suspected "international" threat from Islamic extremists.
Unarmed officers raided 14 addresses across Birmingham on Sunday night after
taking the decision to step in "to ensure public safety". Forensic teams took
away computer equipment and a car for further investigation while searches
continued at the properties.

West Midlands Police declined to comment on the possible target of any attack.

Six men aged between 25 and 32 were arrested at their homes on suspicion of the
commission, preparation and instigation of terrorism in the UK. Among them was a
taxi driver, a gym instructor and an Islamic preacher, according to neighbours.

A 22-year-old woman was arrested early yesterday on suspicion of failing to
disclose information contrary to the Terrorism Act 2000.

It is the biggest raid of its kind in Britain since a series of dawn swoops in
Cardiff, Stoke-on-Trent, Birmingham and London before Christmas, in which 12
people were arrested in an operation co-ordinated by West Midlands Police and
involving MI5.

Two of the arrests on Sunday night took place in the Sparkbrook area of
Birmingham, one of two largely Asian suburbs of the city, where 217 CCTV and
automatic-number-plate-recognition cameras were deployed in a £3m anti-terrorist
initiative.

They were taken down in June following anger from the local community and
threats of legal action. West Midlands Police's Assistant Chief Constable for
Security, Marcus Beale, said the intelligence-led inquiry had been going on for
some time and had been subject to a series of reviews.

"As a result of one of those reviews?? we decided that the time was right and
moved to make six arrests during the night, with a further one a few hours
later," he said.

The suspects are being held for questioning at an unnamed police station in the
West Midlands Police area, where they can be detained for up to 14 days.

The terrorism threat for England and Wales remained unchanged at "substantial"
which means there is a strong possibility of attack.

LOAD-DATE: September 19, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: III


                      Copyright 2011 Independent Print Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                              77 of 331 DOCUMENTS



                                   The Mirror

                           September 20, 2011 Tuesday
                                  Eire Edition

STUDENTS IN BUS ATTACK GUN TERROR;
SHOTS

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 19

LENGTH: 104 words


By Stephen Maguire A GROUP of secondary school students were left terrified
after a gunman blew out two windows on their bus.

Gardai believe a pellet gun may have been used during the attack in Letterkenny,
Co Donegal.

The Lough Swilly bus was crammed with students from St Eunan's College and
Loreto Convent when it was shot at as the pupils were returning home.

Two windows of the bus "exploded", covering children with glass.

The driver managed to stop near the Raymochy roundabout and no one was hurt. One
student said: "We didn't know what the hell it was and a few of the students
near the windows did get an awful fright."

LOAD-DATE: September 20, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                            Copyright 2011 MGN Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              78 of 331 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                    September 20, 2011 Tuesday 12:16 PM GMT

Last 9/11 wrongful death lawsuit settled;
The last wrongful death lawsuit remaining from the 9/11 terrorist attacks was
settled on Monday - just after the ten year anniversary of the fall of the World
Trade Center.

LENGTH: 259 words


The last wrongful death lawsuit remaining from the 9/11 terrorist attacks was
settled on Monday - just after the ten year anniversary of the fall of the World
Trade Center.

The family of Mark Bavis, a hockey scout who died that day, decided to settle
after their decade-long battle to give him a voice.

Attorney Donald Migliori said Mr Bavis's family felt they had made public as
much information as possible about what they viewed as security lapses on
September 11, 2001, at Boston's Logan Airport, where United Airlines Flight 175
originated.

He said the family had decided to settle as it became clear that a trial
scheduled to begin November 7 would be limited to three weeks.

In a statement, United Airlines said: "The tragic events of 9/11 impacted all of
us, and we are pleased to resolve this case."

The terms of the settlement were not disclosed.

Mr Bavis, a scout for the Los Angeles Kings hockey team, was aboard Flight 175
when it took off from the airport, was overtaken by terrorists and flown into
the south tower on September 11. The lawsuit was filed by his mother, Mary
Bavis.

Mr Bavis, who was 31 years old, was in seat 19F of the flight. Other than one
tiny bone fragment, his remains were never found.

Mr Migliori said it gave the family "peace" to know that security information
had been published prior to the trial.

But he said that the family had not given up on bringing scrutiny to airport
screening. "They think they can give Mark voice long after this case is over,"
Mr Migliori said. "Their goal is to make future travel safer."

LOAD-DATE: January 20, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTNS


                  Copyright 2011 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              79 of 331 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring South Asia - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                          September 21, 2011 Wednesday

Pakistan PM terms Balochistan bus attack "brutal act of terrorism"

LENGTH: 145 words


Text of report by official news agency Associated Press of Pakistan (APP)

Islamabad, 20 September: Prime Minister Syed Yusuf Raza Gillani strongly
condemned gun attack on a bus in Mastung on Tuesday [20 September] evening, in
which number of people lost their lives and many others sustained injuries.

The prime minister called the attack a brutal act of terrorism and said such
cowardly acts cannot shake the government's resolve to fight this menace.

He expressed his deep sense of shock and grief over the loss of lives in this
brutal act of terrorism and conveyed his sympathies to the families of the
victims.

The prime minister prayed to Allah almighty to rest the departed souls in
eternal peace and grant courage to the bereaved families to bear the irreparable
loss with fortitude.

Source: Associated Press of Pakistan news agency, Islamabad, in English 1437gmt
20 Sep 11

LOAD-DATE: September 21, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2011 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              80 of 331 DOCUMENTS



                          The Daily Telegraph (London)

                          September 21, 2011 Wednesday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

Obama is appeasing orchestrators of terrorism, says Perry;
Republican attack

BYLINE: Jon Swaine

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 189 words


Rick Perry, the front-runner for the Republican presidential nomination, has
accused President Barack Obama of "appeasing" the Palestinians, as he called for
new Israeli settlements on the West Bank. Mr Perry, the Governor of Texas, said
Mr Obama had taken the country to the verge of disaster by effectively
encouraging the Palestinians to apply for statehood at the United Nations this
week.

"We would not be here today at the precipice of such a dangerous move if the
Obama policy in the Middle East wasn't so naive, arrogant, misguided and
dangerous," Mr Perry told a rally in New York. Appearing alongside Jewish
backers and hardline Israeli politicians, Mr Perry accused Mr Obama of giving
"moral equivalency" to Israelis and Palestininans "including the orchestrators
of terrorism".

He attacked Mr Obama for proposing that any peace agreement be based on the 1967
borders, and said his move to hold "indirect talks" through the US had led the
Palestinians to shun direct talks with Israel. Mr Perry said that new Jewish
settlements should be built on the West Bank, a practice Mr Obama has asked
Israeli to halt.

Jon Swaine, New York

LOAD-DATE: September 21, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DTL


                  Copyright 2011 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              81 of 331 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring South Asia - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                          September 22, 2011 Thursday

Afghan paper calls on US to attack terrorist hotbeds in Pakistan

LENGTH: 393 words


Text of editorial entitled "Have Americans bluffed once again" by private Afghan
newspaper Arman-e Melli on 19 September

Following the latest attack by the Haqqani terrorist network on the US embassy
in Kabul last week, some American officials have become furious and said that
the US will take revenge from the Haqqani network which is supported by the
Pakistani spy agency, ISI.

They have openly said that the Pakistani government has relations with the
Haqqani terrorist network and it should cut its ties with this network.

Americans have always taken such stances and used to say something when they
face a problem. The Western countries, particularly the USA, have not taken
decisive and crucial action against terrorist hotbeds in Pakistan over the past
10 years. They have only relied on drone attacks which only target specific
areas.

If the USA decides to stop boasting and makes a decisive decision to suppress
terrorists in Pakistan, it will cross the Pakistani border from air and ground
to dismantle all terrorist hotbeds there so that the people will believe in its
honesty in the fight against terrorism.

The other issue refers to the Afghan government's stance, particularly the
Afghan Foreign Ministry's stance, on the latest attack by the Haqqani network in
Kabul.

Now, the Americans are exerting pressure on the ISI as it has ties with the
Haqqani terrorist network and the latest attack in Kabul was also carried out at
the behest of the Pakistanis, but the Afghan government is remaining silent and
even the Afghan Foreign Ministry has said that Afghanistan and Pakistan have a
common enemy instead of taking a serious stance against Pakistan following the
attacks in Kabul.

Under the current circumstances, the Afghan government's stance shows
incompetence of senior Afghan officials. This comes at a time when terrorists
killed several Afghan people and spread horror in Kabul city for 20 hours.
Afghan officials either do not have enough knowledge to evaluate this attack or
they intentionally turn a blind eye to it.

Compared to the Americans, the Afghan government should have taken serious
stance. It should have drawn the attention of the world to the terrorist
government of Pakistan and spokespersons of the Afghan government should have
dared to talk about the realities on the ground.

Source: Arman-e Melli, Kabul, in Dari 19 Sep 11 p 1

LOAD-DATE: September 22, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2011 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              82 of 331 DOCUMENTS


                      The Argus (Newsquest Regional Press)

                           September 23, 2011 Friday

Terrorist attacks 'possible' on Sussex railways

BYLINE: Rebecca Evans

SECTION: LOCAL NEWS (GENERAL NEWS)

LENGTH: 389 words


Rail staff in Sussex have been warned that a Norway-style gun attack is a
'strong possibility'.

British Transport Police has released guidance for the rail industry on what to
do if there is an "active shooter" attack on the network, such as in Norway or
during the Mumbai terrorist attacks.

The report explains how staff can help keep themselves and passengers safe in
the event of an incident, while helping police and emergency crews tackle the
danger.

Police say the plans are not in response to any "specific intelligence" of
possible attacks but reflect the current UK threat level of substantial -
meaning a terrorist attack is a "strong possibility".

Anders Behring Breivik killed 77 people after setting an explosion and going on
a shooting spree in Norway in July.

Southern and Southeastern said they work closely with BTP and have passed on the
latest updates to staff.

However the Rail, Maritime and Transport union said anticipated staff cuts would
increase risks on the network.

It comes after the McNulty report listed a string of proposals to drive down
costs on the railways.

RMT general secretary Bob Crow said: "We welcome and support any initiatives
designed to keep the travelling public and staff safe in the event of an attack
on the transport system and our reps are actively engaged in developing and
implementing these plans.

"However, the Government has got to face up to reality. Staff on the trains,
stations, tracks and across the tube network are the eyes and ears of the alert
system and absolutely critical to implementing emergency and evacuation
procedures of the kind we are discussing in light of the threat of an "active
shooter" attack."

A DfT spokesmen said: "It is completely incorrect to suggest that the main
thrust of the independent McNulty report is about cutting thousands of staff.

"It proposes a wide range of options designed to offer better value for money
for the farepayer and the taxpayer.

"As always, we encourage all transport staff and passengers alike to remain
vigilant and report anything suspicious."

A police spokeswoman said: "This complements existing guidance provided to staff
on other - more familiar - forms of terrorist attack, and is part of our regular
review and updating of counter terrorism measures.

"The key message of the guidance to staff is to do not put yourself at risk."

LOAD-DATE: September 23, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2011 NewsQuest Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              83 of 331 DOCUMENTS


                              DAILY MAIL (London)

                           September 23, 2011 Friday

U.S. ACCUSES PAKISTAN SPIES OF BACKING TERROR ATTACKS

BYLINE: DAILY MAIL REPORTER

LENGTH: 207 words


THE U.S. accused Pakistani intelligence yesterday of supporting the terror group
behind a series of deadly attacks in Afghanistan.

In a devastating criticism of a key ally, America's top military officer Admiral
Mike Mullen said Pakistan's Inter-Services Intelligence (ISI) agency was using
the Haqqani network to wage a 'proxy war' against Nato and Afghan troops.

Washington blames the network, one of the most feared Taliban-linked groups
fighting in Afghanistan, for last Tuesday's attack on the U.S. embassy and other
targets in Kabul.

Some 25 people died in the 20-hour attack on the embassy and other official
buildings, including 11 civilians, among them five children.

With the ISI supposedly pulling the strings, the Haqqani network is also
suspected of the recent attack on the British Council office in Kabul and the
June siege at the Inter-Continental Hotel on the city's outskirts.

In his final congressional testimony before retiring as chairman of the Joint
Chiefs of Staff next week, Admiral Mullen said that by 'exporting violence' to
Afghanistan, Pakistan risked jeopardising the prospect of a successful outcome
to the decade-old conflict.

Pakistan's Interior Minister, Rehman Malik, denied the country had links with
the Haqqanis.

LOAD-DATE: September 23, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Papers


                   Copyright 2011 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              84 of 331 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring Middle East - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                          September 24, 2011 Saturday

Israeli military on alert along Egyptian border over possible terror attack

LENGTH: 79 words


Text of report by Israeli public radio station Voice of Israel Network B on 23
September

The IDF [Israel Defence Forces] raised the alert level along the border with
Egypt following specific information about the intentions of Hamas and other
terrorist organizations to carry out a terror attack along the border.

Sources in the IDF believe that the terrorist organizations want to harm the
PNA's attempts at the UN.

Source: Voice of Israel, Jerusalem, in Hebrew 1900 gmt 23 Sep 11

LOAD-DATE: September 24, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2011 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              85 of 331 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring South Asia - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                          September 24, 2011 Saturday

Pakistan TV show discusses Karachi terror attack

LENGTH: 1061 words


Karachi Geo News television in Urdu at 1700 gmt on 19 September aired live its
regularly scheduled: "Today with Kamran Khan" program. Prominent Pakistani
journalist Kamran Khan reviews, discusses, and analyzes major day-to-day
developments with government ministers and officials, opposition leaders, and
prominent analysts in the program. Words within double slanted lines are in
English.

Program: "Today With Kamran Khan"

Segment I

Khan begins the program saying that the Taleban carried out the sixth major
attack of the year in Karachi today and the second one in the presence of
President Asif Ali Zardari in the city. He adds that Tehreek-e-Taleban Pakistan
has accepted responsibility of the attack. Khan says: "The Taleban targeted the
residence of Chaudhry Muhammad Aslam, Senior Superintendent Police [SSP] Crime
Investigation Department [CID] Karachi with a vehicle laded with 300 kilograms
of explosives. Aslam and his family members remained safe but eight other people
have been killed in the attack. The attack has once again drawn attention of the
entire world toward the security situation in the country especially in Karachi.
It is important to note that police knew in advance that there will be an attack
today. Saud Mirza, the Karachi City Police Chief summoned an important meeting
of senior police officials last night and informed the participants that most
probably an attack will be carried out at a high-profile target between 0600 and
0800 hours in the morning today." Khan says the attack took place despite all
preparedness and high alert of the police. Khan says: "National Crisis
Management Centre [NCMC] informed President Zardari, Prime Minister Yousaf Raza
Gilani, and other senior officials of the security agencies some days ago that
an attack will be carried out at a consulate in Karachi on 18 or 19 September."
Khan says: "A group of the Taleban prepared the plot for the attack but he
declines to disclose the name of the group." Khan observes that the Taleban
intentionally kept their real target under the rug.

Khan establishes telephone link with Aslam and asks him to give a reason for the
attack. Aslam replies that his house was attacked because he unearthed several
groups of the Taleban working in Karachi and arrested some of their senior
leaders involved in terror activities, kidnapping of children for using them in
the terror attacks, and dumping of weapons.

Khan says: "A spokesman of the Taleban phoned to media today saying that they
will target SSPS of Karachi police namely Rao Anwar Ahmed Khan, Raja Umar
Khattab, Farooq Awan, Fayyaz Khan, Umer Shahid, Mazhar Mashwani, and Khurram
Waris." He adds: "These police officers have played a very effective role
against all types of terrorism in Karachi." Khan quotes the Taleban as saying
they attacked Aslam because of deaths of their colleagues at his hands.

Khan also gives break-up of major terror attacks by the Taleban across the
country.

Khan establishes telephone link with Talha Hashmi, the correspondent of Geo
News, and seeks details. Talha replies: "Karachi police have taken effective
steps against the Taleban." He adds Karachi CID got active after the murder of
Daniel Pearl, the US journalist, in Karachi and recently made several arrests of
the Taleban leaders and activists.

Khan says this is not for the first time that explosive-laden vehicle has been
hit with a building and he mentions several similar incidents in the past.

Segment II

Khan says that the Taleban have carried out attacks in almost every major city
of Pakistan. He adds that a CD shop has been attacked a short while ago and
according to reports so far three people have lost their lives in the attack.
Khan recalls several major attacks in some big cities and adds that the Taleban
have not spared any city, race, and sect. Khan says it looks as the Taleban are
taking revenge from the people of Pakistan for actions against them.

Khan establishes telephone link with former ambassador Ayaz Wazir, and asks him
what in his view the strategy of the government is against the Taleban attacking
everyone. Wazir replies that there seems to be no strategy on the part of his
government against war on terror for the past eight years. He adds: "It is
someone else's war but we own it as ours." He says: "The solution to the issue
is dialogue." Wazir says: "The United States could not defeat the Taleban and
now it is holding talks with them." He adds terrorism has spread to other parts
of the country and is not confined to the tribal areas only.

Segment III

Khan says that Altaf Hussain, the chief of Muttahida Qaumi Movement, has
apologized to Asfandyar Wali Khan, the chief of Awami National Party [ANP], and
ANP has welcomed it and termed it a positive development in the politics.

Mir establishes telephone link with Afrasyab Khan Khattak, President of ANP
Khyber Pakhtunkhwa chapter, and seeks his comments on the apology of the MQM and
the reports that the MQM, ANP, and Pakistan Peoples Party [PPP] are once again
going to form the coalition. Khattak replies: "It will reduce political tension
and establish lasting peace in Karachi." He adds it will also strengthen
democracy in the country. Khattak says: "We hope the people living in Karachi
will also respect one another."

Segment IV

Khan says that Pakistan's finance managers are holding talks with IMF and the
World Bank. He adds: "Pakistan Government has sent the message to IMF that it
has decided to come out of IMF program because it is unable to meet the
conditions of IMF and cannot do so in the future as well."

Khan establishes telephone link with Amir Zia, editor business desk The News,
and seeks his opinion over this development. Zia replies: "Pakistan itself set
targets in the talks with IMF in 2008 and failed to achieve these targets." He
adds: "Pakistan needs to take unpopular decisions to achieve these targets but
it cannot do so because of the elections due next year." Zia says: "The poor
will get poorer with the decision." He adds: "The decision will make
fund-raising from the multinationals very difficult and there will be cut in the
foreign investment." He further says: "The domestic investors are also not
investing in the country and this will worsen the economic situation in the
country."

Khan concludes the program.

Reception: Good

Duration: 60 minutes

Source: Geo TV, Karachi, in Urdu 1700gmt 19 Sep 11

LOAD-DATE: September 24, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2011 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              86 of 331 DOCUMENTS


                                South Wales Echo

                          September 24, 2011 Saturday
                                 First Edition

Composition to commemorate 9/11;
A very personal take on the 9/11 terrorist attacks will be unveiled in Cardiff
next week, as the BBC National Orchestra of Wales tackles composer John Adam's
moving work. Karen Price finds out more

BYLINE: Karen Price

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 17

LENGTH: 602 words


COMING justweeks after the 10th anniversary of the attacks on the World Trade
Centre, the very personal work of Pulitzer Prize-winning composer John Adams
will be performed in Cardiff next week.

The piece, to commemorate 9/11, will be conducted by Thierry Fischer, the
outgoing principal conductor of the BBC National Orchestra of Wales.

"He has an extraordinary way of writing rhythm and this was a much more intimate
piece," says Thierry.

"I'm always interested in composers who have different sides. You think you are
getting one thing but you're getting something else."

Now Thierry will conduct a performance of the work, On The Transmigration Of
Souls, during a concert with the BBC National Orchestra of Wales next week.

Commissioned by The New York Philharmonic and Lincoln Centre's Great Performers
(and an anonymous but prominent New York family) shortly after the terrorist
attacks, John Adams began writing the piece in late January 2002.

The music was premiered by the New York Philharmonic on September 19, 2002 at
Avery Fisher Hall. It is approximately 25 minutes long.

In an interview John explained: "I want to avoid words like 'requiem' or
'memorial' when describing this piece because they too easily suggest
conventions that this piece doesn't share. If pressed, I'd probably call the
piece a 'memory space'."

John received the 2003 Pulitzer Prize in music for the piece.

Swiss-born Thierry, who leaves his post as principal conductor with the
Cardiff-based company next year, was preparing for a rehearsal in Belfast in
2001 when he learned of the terrorist attacks.

"I was studying Mendelssohn's Second Symphony, called Hymn Of Praise, when one
of my sons called me and asked me to put on the TV," he recalls. "I put on the
television in my hotel room and that's how I heard."

John Adams' piece will be followed by Beethoven's Symphony No 9 (his Choral
Symphony) during the Cardiff concert, which is entitled Ode To Joy.

"We thought if we started the concert with Adams' piece, it would be a good
contrast to then perform the Beethoven Symphony," says Thierry.

"It's one of the last messages he left to the music world - it's a very
revolutionary symphony and something quite special."

Choral Symphony was composed at the end of Beethoven's life when he was deaf.

It's a piece of wild fantasy, nobility and hope for the future and provides
audiences with a new sense of optimism and strength.

This performance features a stellar line-up of soloists -GrammyAward-winning
soprano Rebecca Evans, mezzo soprano Hanne Fischer, tenor Andrew Kennedy and
bass Matthew Rose.

The work was written for chorus and the BBC National Chorus of Wales, choristers
of Hereford, Gloucester and Worcester cathedrals and the Three Choirs Festivals
Choir all feature in the concert.

"He hesitated to add the chorus element to the symphony - it took him a while to
find the right way," adds Thierry.

¦ The concert will be staged at St David's Hall, Cardiff on Friday at 7.30pm.
The box office number is 029 2087 8889.

DON'T MISS TONIGHT... Marc Lucero, Rob Coleman, Steve Day, Rob Riley The Pilot
Hotel, Penarth Tickets: pounds 12 Highly attractive line-up of mirth merchants
at club's launch night. Tel: 029 2071 0615 End Of The Rainbow New Theatre,
Cardiff Tickets: pounds 8.50-pounds 26 Last call for the smash West End musical
based on the life of Judy Garland and starring Tracie Bennett.

Tel: 029 2087 8889 Secret Affair, The Method The Factory, Porth Tickets: pounds
12 Mod favourites let loose their storming soul revue. Supported by equally ace
local live favourites. Tel: 01443 687080

LOAD-DATE: September 24, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: sw


                    Copyright 2011 Western Mail and Echo Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                              87 of 331 DOCUMENTS


                            Aberdeen Evening Express

                           September 27, 2011 Tuesday

'Oil firms must stay on alert for offshore terror attacks'

BYLINE: David Ewen

SECTION: NEWS; ENVIRONMENT; Sea; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 511 words


A LEADING expert today warned that the North Sea energy industry cannot afford
to drop its guard in the fight against terrorism.

The threat posed to oil and gas installations is among the issues open for
debate as specialists in the field gather in the North-east.

The World Conference on Marine Biodiversity brings together leading scientists
to advance knowledge of the oceans.

But as well as celebrating the wonders of the deep, they will also look at the
increasing threats to life.

Terrorism at sea was to be on the agenda at the global gathering, co-hosted by
the University of Aberdeen.

Topics will include the trafficking of humans, drugs and weapons, toxic waste
dumping, piracy and maritime terrorism.

A University of Aberdeen spokeswoman said: "The threats posed go far beyond the
criminal or political aspects under which they are usually examined. One
remembers the oil spill caused by the suicide attack on the tanker M/V Limburg
in October 2002."

The Limburg, a French oil tanker, was thought to have been rammed by a small
boat in the Gulf of Aden before an explosion. One crew member was killed and
more than 90,000 barrels of oil were sent pouring into the sea.

The conference is being co-hosted by the University of Aberdeen and St Andrews
University, which was to host the debate on Maritime Terrorism tonight.

Dr Peter Lehr, one of the organisers, said any terrorist attacking an offshore
platform was likely to have experience of the sea.

He said: "If you look at the 7/7 attacks, you have young men striking in an
environment they feel comfortable in."

The debate comes just months after the Department of Energy and Climate Change
warned oil and gas companies to consider security after a terrorist attack in
Norway. Anders Behring Breivik, who shot dead and blew up more than 80 people,
drew up a manifesto in which he said sabotaging a North Sea rig could cause the
UK "magnificent" economic damage.

Dr Lehr said attacking an offshore platform would require considerable planning,
resolve and knowledge.

He said: "They are so far out - hundreds of nautical miles. You wouldn't find
many gangs which were capable."

In 2004, SAS troops stormed an offshore installation in the Moray Firth as part
of a training exercise.

The emergency services, Home Office and Ministry of Defence were all involved in
the operation, which was led by Grampian Police.

Dr Lehr, a lecturer in terrorism at St Andrews University, pointed out that oil
rigs were extremely strong structures, adding: "You'd need to know where to
strike."

He said the chances of a terrorist attack in the North Sea were very low but
could not be discounted altogether.

"The number one scenario would be a worker who is suddenly converted to the
cause," he added.

"An engineer would know exactly where to strike to put an oil rig out of
commission.

"You can also construct a scenario out of a trawler approaching an oil rig - it
would be inconspicuous out there."

However, Dr Lehr stressed there were many easier targets than a huge platform
out at sea.

"Stay on guard against terrorists", Page 6

dewen@ajl.co.uk

LOAD-DATE: September 27, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: security: Dr Peter Lehr, left, and killer Anders Behring Breivik.
INCIDENT: Around 90,000 barrels of oil poured into the sea when the French oil
tanker M/V Limburg was rammed.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: EE


                      Copyright 2011 Aberdeen Journals Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                              88 of 331 DOCUMENTS


                       BBC Monitoring Trans Caucasus Unit
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                           September 27, 2011 Tuesday

Russia: Dagestani mayor urges residents to vigilance amid terror attacks

LENGTH: 211 words


Excerpt from report by Russian RGVK Dagestan TV, funded by the Republic of
Dagestan government, on 23 September

The killing of deputy chief of the Federal Penal Service has made the
operational situation in Dagestsan worse. Twin terror attacks on Dakhadayev
Street in Makhachkala took away not only lives and health of people but also
destroyed many houses, buildings, offices and stores. Now everybody is hastily
restoring the sales outlets as they can. Report by Sakinat Mallayeva has
details.

[Passage omitted: The extent of the damage and reconstruction work described]

[Presenter] Most of the victims of office and apartment buildings did not have
insurance. Makhachkala mayor Said Amirov urges the residents not only to be
vigilant, but also treat their life and property seriously.

[Makhachkala mayor Said Amirov] It is time to take extra vigilance, to pass
information about all suspicious people, cars, objects, to address owners of
businesses, to install video cameras in buildings, facilities. Video cameras
will be installed also in the streets and public places. It is necessary to make
the city transparent and clear from crimes. The government, businesses and
residents will help us in this work.

Source: RGVK TV, Makhachkala, in Russian 1530 gmt 23 Sep 11

LOAD-DATE: September 27, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2011 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              89 of 331 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring Middle East - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                           September 27, 2011 Tuesday

Algeria heightens airport security following terrorist attack

LENGTH: 1015 words


Text of report by Fodil S. and Mohamed Fawzi Gaidi headlined: "After the RPG-7
rocket launcher attack in Jijel, airport security strengthened," published by
privately-owned Algerian newspaper El Watan website on 27 September

According to security sources, terrorist groups allegedly have rocket launchers
brought into Algeria by weapons trafficking networks from Libya. The Algerian
authorities have decided to boost security at domestic airports.

The RPG-7 rocket launcher known for its efficiency and handling, is particularly
feared in attacks on tanks and helicopters flying at low altitudes. The
terrorist attack the targeted the Ferhat Abbas Airport in Jijel the day before
yesterday with fire from RPG-7 rocket launchers has shaken the top Algerian
security agencies, which yesterday decided on a vigilance plan that will affect
all of Algeria's airports and their immediate surroundings, it has been learned
from security sources. Lying in ambush in Oued Djin Djin, which borders on the
airport, terrorists who were reportedly from the El Fath El Moubine brigade,
affiliated with Al-Qa'idah in the Lands of the Islamic Maghreb [AQLIM; formerly
the Salafi Group for Call and Combat, the GPSC], fired on military helicopters
parked on the runway, damaging one.

From conventional and traditional weapons that have rarely gone beyond heb hebs
(homemade mortars), a qualitative leap has been noted in the terrorist arsenal
that has been used in the latest attacks such as, for example, the Cherchell
Military Academy. The first use of this weapon of war was noted last July, when
a group of terrorists used RPG-7 rocket launchers, targeting the billet of the
Ahmed Salem municipal guards, in the municipality of Kerkera, in the
administrative district of Tamalous, 50 kilometres west of Skikda. The presence
in the military arsenal of the terrorists in Algeria of such a war device has
confirmed the worries of more than one [observer].

Indeed, the theses that have been put forward with respect to potential leaks of
weapons coming from Libya into the greater Sahel remain plausible. The alert
that was sounded recently by the American embassy in Algiers about the risks of
attacks targeting the airplanes belonging to the petroleum companies in the
south supports this thesis. The weapon that was used to attack the Ferhat Abbas
Airport the day before yesterday seems to be present in the hands of several
terrorist groups in Skikda and Jijel.

These are two provinces that are linked by the natural extension with the wooded
mountains of the Collo massif. Other sources that are very knowledgeable about
this issue have confirmed the formation of several weapons trafficking networks
that reign supreme on the Algerian-Libyan border. And that is what propelled the
security agencies into setting up major human and materiel resources, notably in
the Djanet, Illizi, and El Oued regions, and into intensifying the patrols of
the National Gendarmerie (Border Guard Gendarmes [GGF]) on the trails and
passages usually frequented by smugglers for the purpose of halting the
trafficking in weapons looted from the eastern region of Libya after the start
of the hostilities against the dictator Al-Qadhafi.

"The weapons seizure operations carried out in recent months by the National
People's Army (ANP) and the National Gendarmerie's border guards, among them
that of more than 400 items including automatic pistols, Kalashnikovs, and, of
course RPG-type rocket launchers, argues in favour of the existence of this new
trafficking. This is something that, once again, has triggered the fears of the
countries of the Sahel region with respect to a potential utilization of these
weapons in the event they were to fall into the hands of the terrorist groups.
The rocket launchers that were used the day before yesterday in the attack on
the Jijel airport certainly came from those networks," our sources explained.

The availability of this category of recoilless weapons has pushed the
terrorists into revising their targets upwards.

According to retired soldiers, the RPG-7 rocket launcher is known for its
efficiency and handling. It is practically the best in its category regarding
attacks on tanks and helicopters, even those flying at low altitudes. This is
what encouraged the terrorists to make a show of force by attacking the Ferhat
Abbas International Airport. That area, the home to different security forces
bases, is one of the most secure in the province.

An Attack and Some Worries

The attack that was carried out on Saturday night into Sunday morning on pieces
of military equipment parked on the tarmac of the Ferhat Abbas Airport, in the
municipality of Taher, in the province of Jijel, is reviving worries about
potential arrivals of weapons in the region's bushes.

Up until now, there was only talk of the infiltration of weapons from Libya into
the distant Sahara, which is marked by porous borders. The day following this
attack, the population seemed flabbergasted by the news. But if such an arrival
of weapons in the bush of the north of the country were to be proven, that would
not fail to give the security agencies and the population the white sweats,
which has suffered from terrorist acts of violence since the early 1990's.

The apprehensions triggered by the attack on the Ferhat Abbas Airport arise
mainly from the modus operandi, based on the use of RPG-7-type rocket launchers,
and the area in which the terrorists operated. These are two elements that do
not argue in favour of an easy execution of the operation, given the difficulty
of moving about with such a weapon in an area ringed by military billets.

Readers will note that during the black decade, which had "cleaned out" the
region, you only heard of homemade rocket launchers, colloquially called heb
hebs.

Just one week ago, in the east of the province of Jijel, in Ain Kechra, to be
more precise, an operation using devices of this sort was perpetrated, causing
injuries to two municipal guards and one member from a Legitimate Defence Group
[GLD].

Source: El Watan website, Algiers, in French 0000 gmt 27 Sep 11

LOAD-DATE: September 27, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2011 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              90 of 331 DOCUMENTS



                          The Daily Telegraph (London)

                          September 28, 2011 Wednesday
                                   Edition 2;
                                National Edition

ITV's terrorist attack film was a computer game

BYLINE: Christopher Williams

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 222 words


THE producers of Exposure, ITV's new investigative programme, face embarrassment
after it was disclosed that footage they described as an IRA video made in 1988
was taken from a video game released two years ago.

Exposure: Gaddafi and the IRA, which was broadcast on Monday night, explored the
flow of weapons and money from the former Libyan dictator to Irish republican
terrorists. It was billed as the first of six documentaries "providing an
in-depth, revealing focus on a range of powerful subjects".

However, the programme was removed from ITV's online catch-up service yesterday
after video game enthusiasts recognised computer-generated footage as being from
ARMA 2, a computer game released in 2009.

The hour-long investigation included a video that it said showed terrorists
shooting down an Army helicopter in 1988. "With Gaddafi's heavy machineguns, it
was possible to shoot down a helicopter, as the terrorists' own footage of 1988
shows," said the voice-over by Paul McGann, the actor.

An ITV spokesman said producers had real footage of a helicopter being shot down
but used the video game material by mistake. "The events were genuine but it
would appear that during the editing process the correct clip was not selected
and other footage was mistakenly included," he said. "This was an unfortunate
case of human error."

LOAD-DATE: September 28, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DTL


                  Copyright 2011 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              91 of 331 DOCUMENTS


                              The Plymouth Herald

                          September 28, 2011 Wednesday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

Victim relives terror of vigilante attack

BYLINE: CARL EVE

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 590 words


A MAN who suffered a terrifying assault in front of his family after vigilantes
mistook him for their intended target has appealed for their capture.

The man - who has asked not be identified for fear of reprisals from the
attackers - has spoken of the savage assault he endured, saying his house looked
like "the scene of a horror movie" after blood spurted from a wound to his head.

The 32-year-old, who is now off work as he recovers from the physical and
psychological injuries inflicted, said he is now scared to leave the house. He
told The Herald he fears the three attackers who smashed their way into his
partners's home in Ringmore Way, Whitleigh, on Friday night may return, despite
being told by police they suspected the thugs had a different target that night.

He said: "Me and my partner were in bed asleep, so was my partner's young
daughter.

"My girlfriend woke me saying 'there's someone banging on the door'. They were
hammering quite violently." The victim went downstairs in his nightclothes but
was met with three men battering down the front door.

"They smashed the glass with a piece of wood and booted the door in. They then
beat me to a pulp with the piece of wood."

The man said he was repeatedly hit before the trio dragged him into the kitchen,
where they continued their violent attack.

A six-inch gash to his skull spurted blood across several walls as he was pulled
from one room to the next.

"It was like a horror film - there was blood everywhere."

The victims said the men initially claimed they were "from the flats over the
road" adding "you don't want to mess with us". As they beat him he said they
repeatedly shouted "who owns this house?" He said: "They were shouting, hitting
me all over with severe blows to my head and body. They dragged me through to
the kitchen and kicked the living hell out of me.

"I was so in shock, so worried about my partner and her daughter. Then they
started to go around the house."

He said the men appeared to be surveying the house as they carried out the
attack, even racing upstairs to where his partner's young daughter was sleeping.

He said: "I was in a state in the kitchen and my partner came downstairs in her
nightclothes and despite being attacked herself, was able to man-handle the men
out of the house.

"She told them 'I own this house'. One of them looked around at her and appeared
to realise they had gone into the wrong house.

"The police have told me they have suspicions about who they were really after."
The attack has left him with cuts, swelling and bruises across his body,
lacerations to his back and a six-inch scar above his eye.

He said: "A nurse at Derriford Hospital said she could see my skull. Blood had
gushed out of my head and covered the walls. Our girl saw me slumped in the
passageway and screamed as I was taken into the ambulance. She's sleeping over
at her dad's place as she's too scared to come home.

"Me and my partner have probably had only four hours sleep since the attack -
we're scared they'll come back.

"I don't care whether they got the wrong place or not. They may get another
wrong person. They just shouldn't be doing this at all.

"They could've knocked my eye out, fractured my skull or even killed me."

The men were described as being white, in their twenties and thirties and
thought to be from the local area.

If you have information about the attack, call police on 08452 777444 or call
Crimestoppers anonymously on 0800 555111 quoting crime reference number
EL/11/4334.

It was like a '' horror film - there was blood everywhere

LOAD-DATE: September 28, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: ASSAULTS: Monday's Herald report

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: PLH


                       Copyright 2011 The Plymouth Herald
                              All Rights Reserved

                              92 of 331 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                   September 28, 2011 Wednesday 10:05 PM GMT

Musharaff: Why Haqqani terrorist group can help Pakistan;
Pakistan's interests are helped by the support of a feared terrorist group
blamed for multiple attacks in neighbouring Afghanistan, former president Pervez
Musharaff has suggested.

BYLINE: By Duncan Gardham Security Correspondent

LENGTH: 904 words


Mr Musharaff told The Daily Telegraph that it was important for his country to
spell out to the world why the Haqqani network was being allowed to operate on
its soil.

With the relationship between Washington and Islamabad deteriorating sharply,
Adml Mike Mullen, Chairman of the US Joint Chiefs of Staff, has accused
Pakistan's intelligence services of aiding the Haqqanis during an attack on the
American embassy in Kabul.

Mr Musharraf was interviewed at his central London apartment ahead of his plan
to return home from exile next spring and re-enter politics. He spoke before Adm
Mullen's comments but after the issue had been raised by Western intelligence
analysts.

Asked if Pakistan needed the support of the powerful insurgent family led by
Jalaluddin Haqqani and linked to the Taliban, he said: "If I was in government I
would certainly be thinking how best to defend Pakistan's interests.

"Certainly if Afghanistan is being used by India to create an anti-Pakistan
Afghanistan, we would like to prevent that."

He said the Haqqani group was the source of a "terrible" lack of trust and
confidence and added: "The United States must understand Pakistan has its own
national interest. The United States must accept the compulsions of Pakistan and
give assurances."

He added: "When the coalition talk of leaving in 2014, Pakistan has to really
think, what will be the environment and fend for itself against all the exterior
pressures, all the exterior manoeuvrings and political manoeuvrings against
Pakistan."

Mr Musharraf said Pakistan must "talk straight" about "what their national
interest is viz a viz, why are they not acting against Haqqani in North
Waziristan [his stronghold], viz a viz was there any complicity in Osama bin
Laden being found in Abbottabad."

He said that surveys showed 70 per cent of people in Pakistan thought that the
killing of bin Laden was a hoax.

Mr Musharraf said firmly that he did not believe in such conspiracy theories but
admitted his own brother-in-law had told him: "I have my doubts."

He dismissed suggestions that the Pakistani military had colluded in hiding bin
Laden but said the incident was "most embarrassing and negligence of a shameful
order."

The former president said that if he was in power he believed the Americans
would have told him about their plans in advance.

"I'm a straight talker and I accept straight talk and I do straight talk," he
said.

But the relationship between the United States and Pakistan is now "very poor"
and suffers from "lack of trust and confidence" with "faults on both sides," he
said.

"The United States doesn't understand the sensitivities of Pakistan - that the
United States is in league with India, that Indians are allowed to do whatever
they are doing in Afghanistan."

He said the distrust was increased by drone attacks, the killing of Osama bin
Laden and tensions over Raymond Davis, the CIA agent who shot dead two alleged
robbers in Lahore earlier this year.

"Are we some jungle people that you can do anything with? This is the feeling of
the people of Pakistan, are we some animal that they are treating us like this?
We are a sovereign country and we have our own human rights."

He said the relationship with Britain was "a little better but not good" adding
that the Prime Minister's comments about Pakistan's failure to take on terrorism
during a visit to India were "very, very negative."

"Isn't it naïve that if you are going to India and you are supposed to be a
world power? ...From India you are lecturing Pakistan that Pakistan needs to do
more on terror. This is terrible, this is not good diplomacy at all. Britain we
know to be very good diplomats but this is not good diplomacy."

Mr Musharraf frankly admitted he had had an almost openly hostile relationship
with Afghan president Hamid Karzai.

"As time passed I realised that president Hamid Karzai is playing more in the
hands of Indians who were trying to create an anti-Pakistan Afghanistan," he
said.

"These were irritants that kept developing over the years and got converted into
almost open hostility."

Asked if he thought the Taliban would end up ruling Afghanistan again when
Britain and the US pull out in three years' time he offered two possible
scenarios, one in which there was "total mayhem" and a "free for all" with
"every ethnic group fighting each other."

On the other hand, if the Taliban managed to unite under one leader, civil war
could ensue, he added.

Instead, Mr Musharraf called for "ethnically representative, proportionally
balanced, national government" that recognised the strength of the Pashtuns.

But he added that Mullar Omar, the leader of the Taliban, was beyond Pakistani
control and described him as "absolutely obstinate and semi-literate and not
aware of issues of the world, with very backward, sectarian views."

The former head of the army has launched the All- Pakistan Muslim League, an
attempt to win election for the first time, despite his nine years in power
following a military coup in 1999.

He has support in Pakistan, where some drivers have "Bring back the general"
signs, but he faces an uphill task as well as criminal charges that he
circumvented the constitution.

"I am a person who believes if I try and if I'm failing, I will quit," he added.
"I have no qualms and no ego. I have governed Pakistan for nine years, very
successfully and I have no further ambitions, personal ambitions, my ambition is
Pakistan."

LOAD-DATE: January 20, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTNS


                  Copyright 2011 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              93 of 331 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                    September 28, 2011 Wednesday 6:19 PM GMT

Haqqani terror group is key to Pakistan's defence, says Musharraf;
A terrorist group launching attacks in Afghanistan is crucial to Pakistan's
"national interests", Pervez Musharraf has said.

BYLINE: By Duncan Gardham Security Correspondent

LENGTH: 777 words


The former president of Pakistan told the Daily Telegraph that the Haqqani
network was a key element in his country's foreign policy.

With the relationship between Washington and Islamabad deteriorating sharply,
Adml Mike Mullen, Chairman of the US Joint Chiefs of Staff, has accused
Pakistan's intelligence services of aiding the Haqqanis during an attack on the
US embassy in Kabul.

of violation of the constitution and gross misconduct

Mr Musharraf was interviewed at his central London apartment ahead of his plan
to return home from exile next spring and re-enter politics after resigning in
2008 faced with accusations of violating the constitution.

He spoke before Adml Mullen's comments but after the issue had been raised by
Western intelligence analysts.

Asked if Pakistan needed the support of the powerful insurgent family led by
Jalaluddin Haqqani and linked to the Taliban, he said: "If I was in government I
would certainly be thinking how best to defend Pakistan's interests.

"Certainly if Afghanistan is being used by India to create an anti-Pakistan
Afghanistan, we would like to prevent that."

The the former head of Pakistan's armed forces, who was regarded by the George W
Bush administration as a key ally in the war on terror, said the Haqqani group
was the source of a "terrible" lack of trust and confidence and added: "The
United States must understand Pakistan has its own national interest. The United
States must accept the compulsions of Pakistan and give assurances."

He said Pakistan must "talk straight" about "what their national interest is viz
a viz, why are they not acting against Haqqani in North Waziristan [his
stronghold], viz a viz was there any complicity in Osama bin Laden being found
in Abbottabad."

The general said that surveys showed 70 per cent of people in Pakistan thought
that the killing of bin Laden was a hoax.

He said firmly that he did not believe in such conspiracy theories but admitted
his own brother-in-law had told him: "I have my doubts."

He dismissed suggestions that the Pakistani military had colluded in hiding bin
Laden but said the incident was "most embarrassing and negligence of a shameful
order".

The former president said that if he was in power he believed the Americans
would have told him about their plans in advance.

"I'm a straight talker and I accept straight talk and I do straight talk," he
said.

But the relationship between the United States and Pakistan is now "very poor"
and suffers from "lack of trust and confidence" with "faults on both sides," the
general said.

"The United States doesn't understand the sensitivities of Pakistan - that the
United States is in league with India, that Indians are allowed to do whatever
they are doing in Afghanistan."

He said the distrust was increased by US drone attacks on Pakistan's tribal
areas, the killing of Osama bin Laden and tensions over Raymond Davis, the CIA
agent who shot dead two alleged robbers in Lahore earlier this year.

"Are we some jungle people that you can do anything with? This is the feeling of
the people of Pakistan, are we some animal that they are treating us like this?
We are a sovereign country and we have our own human rights."

He said the relationship with Britain was "a little better but not good", adding
that the Prime Minister's comments about Pakistan's failure to take on terrorism
during a visit to India were "very, very negative".

"Isn't it naïve that if you are going to India and you are supposed to be a
world power... you are lecturing Pakistan that Pakistan needs to do more on
terror. This is terrible, this is not good diplomacy at all. Britain we know to
be very good diplomats but this is not good diplomacy."

Gen Musharraf frankly admitted he had had an almost openly hostile relationship
with Afghan president Hamid Karzai.

"As time passed I realised that president Hamid Karzai is playing more in the
hands of Indians who were trying to create an anti-Pakistan Afghanistan," he
said.

"These were irritants that kept developing over the years and got converted into
almost open hostility."

Gen Musharraf called for "ethnically representative, proportionally balanced,
national government" that recognised the strength of the Pashtuns.

"When the coalition talk of leaving in 2014, Pakistan has to really think, what
will be the environment and fend for itself against all the exterior pressures,
all the exterior manoeuvrings and political manoeuvrings against Pakistan," he
said.

But he added that Mullar Omar, the leader of the Taliban, was beyond Pakistani
control and described him as "absolutely obstinate and semi-literate and not
aware of issues of the world, with very backward, sectarian views".

LOAD-DATE: January 20, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTNS


                  Copyright 2011 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              94 of 331 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring South Asia - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                          September 29, 2011 Thursday

Afghan paper blames government for increasing terror attacks

LENGTH: 412 words


Text of editorial entitled: "Mr President! You should no longer show mercy to
terrorists" by private Afghan newspaper Arman-e Melli on 26 September

Karzai's administration has always pursued purposeful policy towards terrorists
and it has not allowed them to become weak or damage their morale. Terrorists
are detained by security forces, but there are circles in the government which
discharge these terrorists or prevent punishing them. This mercy to terrorists
has given them the courage to easily enter cities and commit horrible crimes.

Afghan security forces have arrested hundreds of terrorists until now and the
news was reported in the media, but there are no reports about court decisions
and types of punishment passed on terrorists. People do not know what were the
results of courts' decisions yet.

Three years ago, I had a meeting with head of the Afghan Supreme Court. I asked
him about the fate of prisoners. He said: "We have completed some of the cases
and our juries passed on punishment for some of them. We sent the documents to
the president and you can ask the president about the cases."

There is no doubt that there are many terrorists who have been arrested after
that time and the number of those who have received death sentences may have
increased. However, the president has not signed the courts' verdicts, except
for few cases and he has prevented passing death sentences on terrorists.
Karzai's government should no longer show mercy to terrorists and it must take
firm actions against them. If it learns lessons from the killing of Borhanoddin
Rabbani and Ahmad Wali Karzai [head of the Kandahar provincial council] and also
from the terrorists' attacks on the Intercontinental Hotel and the recent
terrorist attacks in Kabul.

Passing capital punishment on terrorists could be a lesson for other terrorists
and they will not easily enter cities and will no longer launch brazen attacks,
killing Afghan civilians and officials. One of the ways to reduce terrorist
attacks and killing of high-profile personalities is punishment of terrorists.
Officials should not show mercy to terrorists and they should not be acquitted
of crimes by using different pretexts.

People will ask the president in future why, if he continues avoiding to sign
courts' verdicts on death sentence to terrorists. When crisis influences every
part of the country, answering this question will be difficult for the
president.

Source: Arman-e Melli, Kabul, in Dari 26 Sep 11 p 1

LOAD-DATE: September 29, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2011 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              95 of 331 DOCUMENTS


                       Evening Chronicle (Newcastle, UK)

                           September 30, 2011 Friday

Terror As Thug Attacks Former Friend

BYLINE: Sophie Doughty

SECTION: A; Pg. 25

LENGTH: 383 words


A WEAPON-WIELDING thug who attacked a shopkeeper with a hammer then returned
with a Samurai sword has been jailed for the terrifying raid.

Violent Gary Richardson armed himself with the blade and tool when he went to
confront his former friend, Aslan Asam, at the corner shop where he worked.

Caught on a CCTV camera, he walked into Kazy's store, on Armstrong Road, in
Benwell, Newcastle, and began having a go at his pal for serving a family he had
fallen out with.

The 31-year-old then produced a hammer and began violently attacking the stunned
shopkeeper.

Mr Asam somehow managed to grab Richardson's tool and chase him out his shop.

But his attacker then produced another weapon, a Samurai sword, and began
striking the door.

After viewing footage of the frightening incident the judge, Mr Recorder
Jamieson, said only a spell behind bars would do.

Jailing him for 10 months he said: "You went there armed with a hammer and a
sword.

"I have no doubt you are ashamed of what you did. But I think the appropriate
sentence is immediate custody."

Debbie Breen, prosecuting, explained how Richardson had known his victim most of
his life and they had been friends before the attack happened, on May 20.

"He went into the store and made a purchase, then he returned five minutes later
and began gesticulating towards Mr Asam, asking him why he was letting a certain
family into the shop," she explained.

The court was then shown CCTV footage of the incident, and Richardson could
clearly be seen striking Mr Asam with a hammer, before the victim retaliated and
grabbed the weapon off him.

Ms Breen continued: "During the course of the incident he managed to disarm the
defendant took the hammer and struck him with it."

The victim chased his attacker out of the shop and shut the door.

Then cameras outside recorded him hitting the front of the shop with his
Samurai sword.

Richardson pleaded guilty to assault occasioning actual body harm and possession
of an offensive weapon in form of the Samurai sword.

In defence it was said that Richardson, of Bond Court, in Benwell was addicted
to valium and alcohol.

However, the judge said this was no excuse.

"There must have been something that triggered this behaviour," he added.

"Your addictions to valium and alcohol don't help, but they are not mitigating
factors."

LOAD-DATE: September 30, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


               Copyright 2011 Newcastle Chronicle & Journal Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              96 of 331 DOCUMENTS



                                 thetimes.co.uk

                     September 30, 2011 Friday 9:49 AM GMT

Al-Qaeda terror mastermind escapes botched attack by US planes

BYLINE: Giles Whittell, Washington

SECTION: MIDDLE EAST

LENGTH: 650 words


Racing across the desert in a pick-up truck, Anwar al-Awlaki probably had no
idea how close he was to achieving martyrdom.

It was three days after the killing of Osama bin Laden. Mr al-Awlaki was among
America's most sought-after al-Qaeda operatives left alive and President Obama
wanted him dead. A small airborne armada had been dispatched to take him out.

Flying high above the arid wilderness of Shabwa province in Yemen were a
specially-adapted C-130 transport, Harrier jump jets used by the US Marines and
at least two Predator drones.

Tipped off to Mr al-Awlaki's whereabouts by Yemeni intelligence, the Obama
Administration was within minutes of a second extraordinary coup against
al-Qaeda, already reeling from the loss of its spiritual leader. But there was a
great deal that could go wrong, and a great deal did.

According to a new account of the botched atack on May 5, the massive firepower
deployed against Mr alAwlaki failed to kill him because of a "series of errors"
in the weapons system. The first aircraft to fire on the pick-up was the C-130,
equipped with air-to-ground missiles and a laser targeting pod beneath its wing.
Somehow, the targeting device failed to keep the fast-moving vehicle in its
sights and the first missile missed, sources told reporters. Alerted to the
attack, Mr al-Awlaki called in extra vehicles in an attempt to confuse their
pursuers.

Two more rockets were fired at the pick-up, exploding in a fireball that US
experts guiding the drones assumed was a direct hit. Seconds later they were
stunned to see the target vehicle emerge from the impact zone with only minimal
damage to its rear bumper.

Running low on fuel, the Harriers turned back while the special operations
aircraft and the Predators kept up the pursuit. A fourth missile was fired,
destroying the pick-up and killing its occupants. "We were hoping it was him," a
US official said soon afterwards. It wasn't. In the confusion, Mr al-Awlaki had
swapped vehicles and escaped.

A TV reconstruction of the attack broadcast this week will have looked strangely
familiar to anybody who saw the 2008 film Body of Lies, starring Leonardo
DiCaprio. In the movie, the CIA loses a high-value target in the desert when he
swaps SUVs in a dust cloud created by driving round in circles beneath the
remotely controlled cameras of an American drone.

It was not clear yesterday whether life imitated art or a well-laid plan simply
fell apart. What is clear is that Mr al-Awlaki remains at large, linked to three
high-profile attacks on US targets in the past two years.

Mr al-Awlaki, 40, has spent 21 years of his life in America and holds US
citizenship. President Obama is understood to have given orders that he should
be killed because of his alleged ties to Major Nidal Malik Hasan, accused of
shooting dead 13 US soldiers and civilians at Fort Hood in Texas in 2009; Umar
Farouk Abdulmutallab, the alleged Northwest Airlines underwear bomber, and
Faisal Shahzad, who confessed to leaving a car bomb in Times Square, New York,
last year.

All three terror suspects face trial in the US. It remains unclear how closely
involved, if at all, Mr al-Awlaki was in planning their missions, but he is
known to have corresponded with all of them and US officials consider him to be
al-Qaeda's most effective recruiter in the English-speaking world.

The son of a Yemeni Fulbright scholar, he went to university in the US but moved
to Yemen in 2004. Last year a senior State Department official described him as
"extraordinarily dangerous, committed to carrying out deadly attacks on
Americans and others worldwide".

Some analysts believe Washington exaggerates Mr al-Awlaki's influence within
al-Qaeda, but US officials said on Tuesday that they expect him to announce a
formal merger of al-Qaeda in the Arabian Peninsula (AQAP) and the terror group's
Pakistani-based wing, under Ayman al-Zawahiri, within the next few weeks.

LOAD-DATE: September 30, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication


                     Copyright 2011 News International Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                              97 of 331 DOCUMENTS



                              The Herald (Glasgow)

                            October 1, 2011 Saturday
                                   1 Edition

A murderous ideologue who inspired terror attacks in the UK and US

BYLINE: Martin Williams

SECTION: HS - NEWS; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 755 words


THE death of radical Islamist cleric Anwar al Awlaki, regarded as al Qaeda s
most potent threat to the West, is a significant blow to the terrorist group,
Foreign Secretary William Hague has said.

Awlaki, said to be leader of external operations with the group s most active
operational affiliate, al Qaeda in the Arabian Peninsula (AQAP), and once tipped
as Osama bin Laden s successor, is believed to have been one of four people
killed in an air strike at 9.55am yesterday in the town of Khashef in Jawf
province in Yemen.

Mr Hague said Awlaki, a dual US-Yemeni citizen, had  demonstrated his intent and
ability to cause mass terror, while his murderous ideology was responsible for
inspiring terrorist attacks in the UK and the US .

He warned:  We must keep up the pressure on al Qaeda and its allies and remain
vigilant to the threat we face.

It is understood the strike on Awlaki was directed by the same CIA and US Joint
Special Operations Command team that   led the Osama bin Laden assassination.
Awlaki has been on the run in Yemen since December 2007 and was wanted dead by
US President Barack Obama for his links to a host of terror plots. Mr Obama said
last night that AQAP was now  a dangerous but weakened terrorist organisation .

Yemen s defence ministry statement said only that Awlaki had died in Khashef
along with some of his companions .

US and Yemeni officials later named one of those as Samir Khan, also a US
citizen but of Pakistani origin, who specialised in computer programming for al
Qaeda and produced the group s English-language online magazine, Inspire.

Tribal leaders said Awlaki had been moving around Yemen to evade capture and
locals claimed he had been between Jawf and Marib provinces when he died.

It was reported in November last year that Awlaki, said to have been one of the
top terrorist recruiters because of his fluency in English and use of
technology, radicalised a generation of young Muslims during a  grand tour  of
Britain from London to Aberdeen, as part of a campaign by the Muslim Association
of Britain.

The so-called  bin Laden of the internet

had been fleeing an FBI inquiry in America in the wake of his involvement with
three of the September 11 hijackers, when he arrived in Britain in 2002. But
unable to support himself he returned to Yemen in 2004.

Awlaki, 40, who was born in the US state of New Mexico in 1971 to Yemeni
parents, is suspected of inspiring the mass shooting at Fort Hood army base in
Texas in 2009 and of taking a role in planning the attempted suicide bombing of
an airliner heading for Detroit on Christmas day 2009.

He is believed to have links to the September 11 attacks, and the foiled East
Midlands Airport cargo plane bomb plot in November last year.

His preachings also inspired Roshonara Choudhry, the woman convicted in November
last year of trying to murder Stephen Timms, the former Labour Cabinet Minister,
in his London constituency office.

Mr Obama described the killing of Awlaki as  a major blow to al Qaeda s most
active operational affiliate  and vowed to prevent the terror network from
finding a haven.

He said:  The death of Awlaki marks another significant milestone in the broader
effort to defeat al Qaeda.

American officials said Awlaki was targeted in the killing, but Khan, who edited
the slick Jihadi internet magazine, was apparently not targeted directly. Khan,
who was from North Carolina, was not considered an operational leader but had
published seven issues online of Inspire which offered advice on how to make
bombs.

Mr Obama praised Yemen s government and security forces for their close
co-operation with the US in fighting AQAP, said to be the terror network s most
dangerous affiliate.

Last year Awlaki s father filed a court action against Obama, then-CIA chief
Leon Panetta and then-Secretary of Defence Robert Gates to prevent the US
government from targeting his son for assassination.

A judge threw out the case last December, saying a judge does not have authority
to review the President s military decisions and that Awlaki s father did not
have the right to sue on behalf of his son.

Civil liberties groups questioned the killing of an American without trial.

The American Civil Liberties Union said the Awlaki killing was part of a
counterterrorism programme that  violates both US and international law .

Sajjan Gohel, of the international policy assessment group the Asia Pacific
Foundation, said:  Al-Awlaki didn t need subtitles to indoctrinate. He
understood how to impact the Muslim diaspora in the West.

LOAD-DATE: October 3, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: THREAT: Anwar al Awlaki is believed to have been behind several al
Qaeda plots. Picture: Muhammad ud-Deen/AP

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: GH


                      Copyright 2011 Newsquest Media Group
                              All Rights Reserved

                              98 of 331 DOCUMENTS



                               Independent.co.uk

                     October 1, 2011 Saturday 12:14 AM GMT

Born in the US, killed in Yemen: cleric who inspired terror attacks is dead

BYLINE: By Catrina Stewart, Rupert Cornwell and Shuaib al-Mosawa in Sanaa

SECTION: MIDDLE EAST

LENGTH: 1020 words


Anwar al-Awlaki, the American-born Yemeni cleric identified by the United States
as one of the most significant threats to its homeland security, was killed
yesterday in a targeted air strike in Yemen.

The killing was hailed by President Barack Obama and other US officials as
another crippling blow for al-Qa'ida, eliminating a key figure in the   group's
most active and dangerous affiliate.

At a ceremony marking the departure of Admiral Mike Mullen as chairman of the
Joint Chiefs of Staff, Mr Obama declared his death as "the latest   milestone in
our broader efforts to defeat al-Qa'ida".

It had removed a man 2whose hateful ideology was rejected by the vast majority
of Muslims of every faith", and was "further proof that the group   and its
affiliates will find no safe haven anywhere in the world".

Awlaki was an inspirational figure in al-Qa'ida in the Arab Peninsula, or
AQAP, spreading his extremist ideology to disaffected Muslims all over the
world, but particularly in the West where his fluency in English gained him
many followers. His particular skill was in giving lone attackers the
confidence to strike, and he is linked to several attacks on American soil,
including the shooting of soldiers at a military base in Fort Hood by an   army
psychiatrist, and a failed attempt by the "underpants" bomber   to down a US
airliner above Detroit nearly two years ago.

A US citizen, Awlaki was killed early yesterday morning by an American drone
strike on his convoy some 90 miles from the capital Sanaa in the rugged   Marib
province that has provided a haven for al-Qa'ida militants. The   cleric, who
according to witnesses had stopped in the desert to eat   breakfast moments
before the attack, had been under observation for three   weeks, US officials
said.

Also killed in the strike was Sameer Khan, a Pakistani American who produced
Inspire, the online publication that has been a source of inspiration for
amateur plotters, urging its followers to attack US targets.

Awlaki has long been in Washington's sights. Last year, Mr Obama added him to
the CIA's "kill or capture" list, the first time that the White   House had
sanctioned the extrajudicial killing of a US citizen. The US has   identified
AQAP with "Awlaki as a leader within the organisation as   probably the most
significant threat to the US homeland".

One Pentagon official said yesterday: "This was ... an operational figure   who
was increasingly focused on planning and carrying out attacks against   the
United States and our allies. A very bad man just had a very bad day."

It is, however, a very good day for President Obama, struggling to impose his
authority and at a low point in the polls, barely a year before he faces
re-election. After the successful operation against Osama bin Laden in May,   it
will further undercut traditional Republican claims that Democrats are   weak on
national security.

Yemeni President Ali Abdullah Saleh, a willing recipient of US funding and
military training to fight terrorism on Yemeni soil, will also hope to claim
credit from the operation, to stem international calls for his resignation.

It was only a week ago that Mr Saleh returned to Yemen after a failed attempt
on his life three months ago forced him to flee to Saudi Arabia. He has been
facing pro-democracy protests since the beginning of this year, an uprising
that has escalated into deadly clashes between rival clans and military
commanders.

But analysts said Washington should be doing much more than focusing on
counterterrorism, and instead tackle the issues such as a battered economy
that have allowed al-Qa'ida to prosper in Yemen. "We [the West] are   focused on
the symptoms of the disease, not the causes of the disease,"   said Christopher
Boucek, an analyst at the Carnegie Endowment for   International Peace.

In Yemen, meanwhile, Mr Awlaki's removal is likely to have little impact, for
he is barely known. Experts suggest his operational importance has been
exaggerated by the West, noting that he is not a part of AQAP's senior
leadership. Nevertheless, his removal will hurt the group's efforts to reach   a
broader audience.

Major Nidal Hasan, the psychiatrist who killed 13 people at Fort Hood in Texas
nearly two years ago, had sought advice from the cleric, asking whether it   was
justified to kill American soldiers on US soil, investigations later   showed.

Crimes of a mastermind

7/7

The four suicide bombers who made the co-ordinated attack on London's
transport system on 7 July 2005, killing 52 people, had attended lectures
given by Awlaki in Britain.

Kidnap plot

In 2006, the Muslim cleric served up to 18 months in a Yemeni jail,   reportedly
on charges which implicated him in a foiled plot to kidnap a US   military
attaché. He stepped up his Facebook campaign on leaving jail, and   released a
pamphlet called "44 Ways to Support Jihad".

Package bombs

Awlaki is believed to have been involved in the mail bombs addressed to
synagogues in Chicago which were intercepted in Dubai and the UK in October
2010.

Violence against foreigners

In November last year, Yemeni authorities tried Awlaki in absentia for
inciting violence against foreigners. He was believed to be connected with   the
killing of a French security guard at an oil complex in October.

Times Square

The Pakistani-American man who pleaded guilty to plotting an attempted car
bombing in New York's Times Square in May 2010 told prosecutors that he had
been "inspired" by Awlaki. He said they had been corresponding   online.

Fort Hood

In the aftermath of the mass shooting that left 13 people dead at Fort Hood
military base in Texas in November 2009, it emerged that Awlaki had   exchanged
around 20 emails with the suspected killer, psychiatrist Major   Nidal Malik
Hasan. The cleric praised Maj Hasan after the incident and   called him a
"hero".

Underpants bomber

The cleric is believed to have tutored Umar Farouk Abdulmutallab, who is
awaiting trial in the US for allegedly attempting to detonate explosives   sewn
into his underwear on a flight to Detroit in December 2009.

LOAD-DATE: October 1, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication


                  Copyright 2011 Independent News & Media plc
                              All Rights Reserved

                              99 of 331 DOCUMENTS



                            The Independent (London)

                            October 1, 2011 Saturday
                                 First Edition

Anwar al-Awlaki;
Senior al-Qa'ida activist who was linked to terrorist atrocities including the
attacks of 9/11

BYLINE: MARTIN CHILDS

SECTION: OBITUARIES; Pg. 44

LENGTH: 1070 words


The radical US-born cleric Anwar al-Awlaki, who was killed in Yemen yesterday,
was one of al-Qa'ida's most dangerous figures in their global terrorist network.
He was believed to have been linked to a series of attacks including 9/11, the
shootings at Fort Hood in 2009 and the failed Christmas Day "underwear bomber"
the same year.

Al-Awlaki, who had dual US-Yemeni citizenship, was killed yesterday morning five
outside Kashef in the al-Jawf Province, 90 miles east of Sanaa, the capital, in
what is believed to have been a manned air strike, although a drone attack has
not been ruled out. Local tribal officials said that a two-car al-Qa'ida convoy
had been targeted and destroyed.

His death is the most significant setback to the al-Qa'ida organisation since
Osama bin Laden's assassination in May. Al-Awlaki was one of the few senior
operatives schooled and orientated to western behaviour with an understanding of
the western psyche. In recent years he had gone from mild criticism of his
country to increasing vociferousness in his calls for Muslims to wage jihad
against the US, propelling him towards the top of the Americans' "kill or
capture" list and making him a target for assassination by US forces or CIA
drones. His death is certain to deprive al-Qa'ida of one of its most powerful
propaganda tools.

This designation as "one of the most dangerous men alive", as the UN Security
Council referred to him, was a recognition that al-Awlaki had risen in the ranks
of anti-Western Islamic extremism. His provocative rhetoric had become renowned
on jihadi websites. With all the paraphernalia of an educated modern-day
terrorist, al-Awlaki was able to strike anywhere in the world using online
resources - not for nothing was he known as "the bin Laden of the internet". He
ran a blog, had a Facebook page and had posted hundreds of videos of his sermons
on YouTube, where he gained a wide audience of disenchanted Western Muslims who
might otherwise have been beyond al Qa'ida's reach.

He was believed to have been the leader of al-Qa'ida foreign operations unit
inside the Arabian Peninsula group, which has in recent years taken centre stage
in the global campaign of jihad inspired by Bin Laden. US officials suggested
that he could emerge as bin Laden's successor.

The son of a future Yemeni Agriculture Minister and university president, Anwar
Nasser Abdullah Al-Awlaki was born in Las Cruces, New Mexico in 1971. His
father, Nasser, was studying agricultural economics and the family lived in the
US for another seven years before returning to Yemen. After studying Islam
during his teenage years, al-Awlaki returned to the US in 1991, gaining a BSc in
civil engineering from Colorado State University and a master's in education
from San Diego State.

In 1994, al-Awlaki married a cousin from Yemen and took a part-time job as imam
at the Denver Islamic Society. He later became imam at a mosque in Fort Collins,
Colorado, before returning to San Diego in 1996, where he took charge of the
city's Masjid Ar-Ribat al-Islami mosque. During his four years there, his
sermons were attended by at least two of the 9/11 hijackers, both of whom were
also seen attending long meetings with the cleric.

In early 2001, he moved to the Dar al-Hijrah mosque in Falls Church, Virginia,
which was attended by a third hijacker. It later emerged that in 1998 and 1999,
while serving as vice-president of an Islamic charity that the FBI described as
"a front organisation to funnel money to terrorists", al-Awlaki was visited by
Ziyad Khaleel, an al-Qaida operative, and an associate of Sheikh Omar Rahman,
who was serving a life sentence for plotting to blow-up landmarks in New York.

In 2002, al-Awlaki left the US for the UK, where he gave a series of popular
lectures to Muslim youths. However, unable to support himself, he returned to
Yemen in early 2004 and lived in his ancestral village in the southern province
of Shabwa with his wife, whom he married in 1994, and their children. He became
a lecturer at al-Iman University, a Sunni religious school in Sanaa headed by
Abdul-Majid al-Zindani, a cleric who was later designated a terrorist by the US
and UN for his suspected links with al-Qaida.

In August 2006, al-Awlaki was detained by the Yemeni authorities, reportedly on
charges relating to a plot to kidnap a US military attaché; he was jailed for 18
months. Following his release he became more overtly supportive of violence,
railing against the US-led invasions of Afghanistan and Iraq and the killing of
Muslims in covert operations in Pakistan and Yemen. He incited violence in a
number of texts via his online communications and many pamphlets and CDs,
including one entitled 44 Ways to Support Jihad; such material was found in the
possession of several convicted English-speaking militants in Canada, the UK and
US.

With recent attacks and attempted attacks on US soil, after investigation,
al-Awlaki was soon credited with inspiring or directing a number ofplots - the
shooting of 13 people inside the Fort Hood military base in Texas, the failed
Christmas Day underwear bomber, the failed Times Square bombing and a plot in
which two parcel bombs were hidden inside printer cartridges on US-bound planes
(they were intercepted in the UK and Dubai).

His influence was also seen in plots to target British and European interests.
In 2010, inspired by his sermons, Roshonara Choudhry was found guilty of the
attempted murder of the MP Stephen Timms, who had voted for the invasion of
Iraq, while a British Airways employee, Rajib Karim, was convicted in February
2011 of plotting attacks against the airline.

In November 2009, the Yemeni authorities put al-Awlaki on trial in absentia,
charged with inciting violence against foreigners in connection with the murder
the previous month of a French security guard at an oil company's compound. He
went into hiding. In March and November 2010, al-Awlaki intensified his rhetoric
with two videos; the first called for Muslims residing in the US to attack their
country of residence, while the second called for the killing of Americans,
claiming they were from the "party of devils". Weeks later, he survived an air
strike in Shabwa province in which at least 30 militants were killed.

Anwar Nasser Abdullah al-Awlaki, lecturer, imam and Al-Qa'ida activist: born Las
Cruces, New Mexico 22 April 1971; married 1994 (children); died Mar'rib, Yemen
30 September 2011.

LOAD-DATE: September 30, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: IA


                      Copyright 2011 Independent Print Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                              100 of 331 DOCUMENTS


                                   Reactions

                                  October 2011

US terror attacks to be smaller

LENGTH: 545 words


Catastrophe risk modeler AIR Worldwide's new updated terrorism model for the US
indicates less frequent and lower-severity attacks. The results have been
determined after a reassessment of the threat by a team comprising of leading
terrorism experts.



"The average number of attacks anticipated per year has declined significantly,"
Jack Seaquist, assistant vice-president at the cat modeler told PCI Reporter.

What's more, he says, the nature of those attacks have also changed, with the
most likely option consisting of small attacks from poorly-trained groups, often
comprised of individuals acting on their own, rather than with sponsorship from
terrorist groups.

"That said, there can be people who can overcome that," notes Seaquist, citing
in particular the recent attacks in Oslo perpetrated by far-right extremist,
Anders Breivik.

Developments to the latest version of the AIR US terrorism model include an
updated assessment of the most exposed sectors, such as aviation, ground
transportation, and economic infrastructure.

It also provides flexibility in handling terrorism exclusions and policy
conditions, including modeling the impact of terrorist events, and use of
conventional and chemical, biological, radiological, and nuclear weapons and
application of terrorism policy exclusions, such as the pollution exclusion and
the bacteria and virus exclusion.

"We think that risk assessment for the terrorism model is a multi pronged
activity," says Seaquist, who notes that customers can expand on the model by
including their own scenarios to build a catalogue of potential events. "The
model is a very important baseline," he says.

Seaquist says that when creating the model, AIR took the approach of building
from fundamentals in an attempt to encompass as many potential events as
possible, and explains that the firm began by looking at what weapons terrorist
group may possess or aspire to possess.

"Then we ask: if they had that weapon, what would they target?"

Seaquist says that the firm now has a database of close to 300,000 locations,
including small targets, such as local schools and post offices.

However, Seaquist says that this does not mean that these are likely targets,
only possible. "We see transportation, financial institutions and government
institutions as being primary targets and that's been corroborated over the last
10 years," he says.

The process of updating the terrorism model is one that Seaquist suggests will
never be fully completed, and there are likely to be further updates down the
road. He says that AIR will likely update again, "when one senses that things
have maybe changed since the last time we did this."

There is no definite timeframe for this, however, and he suggests it will likely
be purely dependent on events.

The cat modeler also took the opportunity to respond to recent criticism, which
focused on a combination of a so-called "black box" approach.

On Tuesday, Patrick Hartigan of Beazley told PCI Reporter that cat modelers were
showing a lack of leadership following recent updates with insurers unable to
understand the inner workings of the cat models they apply.

"We really don't feel that models are a black box given the amount of data we
have published," responded Bill Churney, AIR senior vice-president.

LOAD-DATE: November 1, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Magazine

JOURNAL-CODE: REACT


              Copyright 2011 Euromoney Institutional Investor PLC
                              All Rights Reserved

                              101 of 331 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring Middle East - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                             October 2, 2011 Sunday

''Terror group'' attacks train in northern Syria

LENGTH: 344 words


Text of report in English by state-run Syrian news agency SANA website

An armed terrorist group targeted early Sunday morning [2 October] a freight
train in Oubin area in Idlib Province, north Syria. The driver and his assistant
were injured as three cars were diverted off the railway.

Governor of Idlib Khalid al-Ahmad said an explosive device planted on the
railway exploded around 6a.m. causing the driver's railcar to divert off the
main track along with the following two railcars, injuring him and his
assistant. He noted that the driver and his assistant were immediately pulled
out of the driving railcar and transmitted to the National Hospital of Jisr
al-Shughur city.

The governor added that the initial information imports that the bombing
planners had planned to target instead of the freight train a passenger train
which was scheduled to pass at the time of the explosion, but there had been a
change in the train schedules and the passenger train trip was put off for
reasons related to the company.

Al-Ahmad pointed out that the targeted train was carrying pipes and a number of
materials needed for different service uses. Eng George Mqa'bari, Director
General of the General Establishment of Syrian Railways, told SANA that the
train was targeted as it passed the area between the towns of Bdama and
al-Younisiyeh where the railway was bombed.

He added: "The damage is estimated at millions of Syrian pounds and the
technical committee is working on assessing the precise value of the damage."

The establishment will work on replacing and maintaining the damaged part, about
75 meters of the railway and mending it to be put in service as soon as possible
and the establishment will also fix the railcar, he pointed out.

He noted that the train was loaded with 26 cargo trucks that contain irrigation
pipes.

Also on the 23rd of July, armed terrorist groups targeted a passenger train in
al-Sawda in Qazhil area in Hims Province as it was heading from Aleppo to
Damascus, carrying 500 persons.

Source: SANA news agency website, Damascus in English 2 Oct 11

LOAD-DATE: October 2, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2011 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              102 of 331 DOCUMENTS


                                 Scottish Star

                             October 2, 2011 Sunday
                                   Edition 1;
                                    Scotland

BANG GOES MR BOMBER;
Undie terror man nailed in attack

BYLINE: TOM SAVAGE; DEBORAH SHERWOOD; DOMINIK LEMANSKI

SECTION: EDITORIAL; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 572 words


THE missile attack that killed one of al-Qaida's top leaders also took out the
terror network's most feared bombmaker.

US officials revealed yesterday that Ibrahim al-Asiri, who made several bombs
smuggled on to transatlantic planes, died in Friday's attack in Yemen.

Experts said al-Asiri's death was a bigger blow to al-Qaida than that of terror
leader Anwar al-Awlaki, the target of the drone strike.

The editor of al-Qaida's newspaper, US-born Samir Khan, also died, the officials
said, adding the triple killing could make it the most effective drone strike
ever in the ten-year War on Terror.

Saudi national al-Asiri, 29, was last night dubbed "the most feared and most
productive bombmaker of our time".

He was wanted after his fingerprints were found on the bomb worn in the
underwear of Omar Farouk Abdulmutallab, who tried to down a jet heading for
Detroit on Christmas Day 2009.

He was also suspected of making the devices hidden in printer cartridges put on
cargo planes heading to the US last year. One of the bombs was uncovered during
a stop at East Midlands airport.

And he infamously sent his own brother Abdullah to his death as a suicide
bomber.

Abdullah was the only person killed when he detonated a bomb hidden up his
backside while talking to Saudi Arabia's deputy Interior Minister Prince
al-Saud.

Christopher Boucek, an expert on Yemen and al-Qaida, said al-Asiri, known by the
codename Abu Saleh, was so important to the organisation his death would
"overshadow the news of al-Awlaki and Samir Khan".

UK security officials hailed al-Asiri's death, saying westerners could sleep
safer.

A senior security source said: "This is the most feared and most productive
bombmaker of our time.

"He has been the expert who exported his designs to contacts in Europe, the UK
and USA. Western intelligence agencies have been seeking him for years.

"Experts have followed his change of designs in bomb manufacture with amazement.

Where and how he trained for such expertise was unknown.

"His weapons included explosive devices ranging in size from a woman's purse to
a box bomb suitable for destroying an armoured troop carrier.

"Such experts are few and far between and are anxiously sought by terrorist
networks, particularly al-Qaida, who make frequent appeals for Muslim
'engineers' to contact them through named mosques."

The source said al-Awlaki's death had been "a massive blow" against the terror
network.

"He was American-born and spoke fluent English and believes in hitting targets
close to home," he said. "We believe there is less threat to the western nations
with him gone.

"Someone will fill the void but he probably won't be US-born, speaking fluent
English.

"He had a hatred of Britain and was prepared to send innocent idiots to do
stupid things."

Friday's killings were personally authorised by US President Barack Obama and
are the latest blow to al-Qaida after the death of Osama bin Laden in Pakistan.

Meanwhile hate preacher Anjem Choudary said: "Sheikh Anwar al-Awlaki represented
the mood of the Muslims. Even if he is gone the message is still there in the
divine texts and the Koran. I think there are many people that will want to fill
his shoes."

?NATO forces in Afghanistan said yesterday they had captured Haji Mali Khan, the
leader of the Haqqani terror group they blame for dozens of deadly attacks on
western forces in the country.

'He infamously sent his own brother Abdullah to his death as a suicide bomber'

LOAD-DATE: October 2, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: ¦ TARGETS: US drone missile killed bomb expert al-Asiri, above left, as
well as terror leader al-Awlaki
JET BID: Abdulmutallab and, below, Abdullah

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DSSscot


                       Copyright 2011 Express Newspapers
                              All Rights Reserved

                              103 of 331 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring Middle East - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                             October 3, 2011 Monday

"Terrorist" group attacks police department in Iraq's Al-Anbar

LENGTH: 57 words


Baghdad-based Al-Iraqiyah Television in Arabic at 0838 gmt on 3 October carries
the following "breaking news" as a screen caption:

"Al-Anbar Police Department: A terrorist group attacks the Al-Baghdadi Police
Department in Al-Anbar. Policemen kill one terrorist and surround two others."

Source: Al-Iraqiyah TV, Baghdad, in Arabic 0838 gmt 3 Oct 11

LOAD-DATE: October 3, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2011 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              104 of 331 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring Middle East - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                             October 3, 2011 Monday

Syrian soldiers recount ''terror'' attack in Al-Rastan

LENGTH: 216 words


Text of report in English by state-run Syrian news agency SANA website

["Injured Law-Enforcement and Police Personnel Recount Details of Armed
Terrorist Groups' Crimes in Al..." - SANA Headline]

Al-Rastan (SANA) - A number of injured army soldiers and law-enforcement
personnel on Sunday [2 October] recounted the details of the crimes committed by
the armed terrorist groups in Al-Rastan city in Hims Governorate.

Major Samir Mhanna told the Syrian TV that "We were in pursuit of armed
terrorist group when a sniper shot me in my leg".

Major Mhanna indicated that the armed terrorist groups had RPG rounds, explosive
ammunition, large land mines, night-vision binoculars and many precise and
advanced weapons, adding that they were wearing military uniforms to pass
themselves off as defected soldiers.

Abdullah Hamdan Omran said that "We were exposed to heavy fire. I was wounded in
my leg, they were wearing military uniforms and holding launchers and
machine-guns." Another wounded soldier, Khudr Wassouf, said that "we were on
duty in the city when we came under heavy fire coming from houses. The
terrorists killed many soldiers."

Abbas al-Mahfoud said that there was huge numbers of terrorists, with some of
them stationed at rooftops.

Source: SANA news agency website, Damascus in English 3 Oct 11

LOAD-DATE: October 3, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2011 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              105 of 331 DOCUMENTS



                               Independent.co.uk

                      October 4, 2011 Tuesday 11:02 AM GMT

'Terrorist' Martin McGuinness attacked by poll rivals

BYLINE: By David McKittrick, Ireland Correspondent

SECTION: UK POLITICS

LENGTH: 584 words


The political party that heads the Irish government has launched a barrage of
criticism of Martin McGuinness's IRA past as he campaigns to become President of
the Irish Republic.

In one of several heated exchanges between Mr McGuinness and senior members of
Fine Gael, the senior partner in the Republic's ruling coalition, the Sinn
Fein figure was described as a terrorist who benefited from a bank robbery
carried out by the IRA. Mr McGuinness responded that he was the victim of
dirty tricks and a black propaganda campaign.

Of the seven candidates in the presidential race Mr McGuinness is currently
placed third by Dublin bookies. By contrast, the Dublin politician Gay
Mitchell, who is standing as the Fine Gael candidate, is lagging in fifth
place.

Although his party has potentially the most powerful political machine, Mr
Mitchell is regarded as an unexceptional figure whose campaign has yet to   take
off.

So far the many attacks directed at Mr McGuinness have largely come from the
media, but now that the campaign is in full swing his opponents have joined
the fray.

Mr McGuinness has recently introduced a more conciliatory note to traditional
republican rhetoric, saying that his heart went out not just to the families
of republicans who were killed in the Troubles but also to the relatives of
British soldiers who died.

At the weekend he told The Independent that he accepted that IRA killings of
innocent people could be described as murder.

Mr Mitchell disputed Mr McGuinness's assertion that he has not been a member
of the IRA since the 1970s and that he lived on the average industrial wage.
And Phil Hogan, Minister for the Environment, described the Sinn Fein figure
as "a terrorist", saying corporate investment in Ireland could   dwindle if Mr
McGuinness became President.

Another government figure said: "I wouldn't trust Martin McGuinness to   take my
dog for a walk." Referring to the republican's pledge to draw   only an average
salary if elected, he asked: "Why would you need your   salary when you have the
proceeds of the Northern Bank at your disposal?"

This was a pointed reference to the IRA robbery at the Northern Bank in
Belfast in 2004, when £26m was stolen.

The McGuinness campaign described the bank claim as "outrageous,   flippant,
idiotic and without merit". One spokesman said: "I   didn't think senior
government ministers would go on national radio and give   interviews to
newspapers and make attacks without foundation.

"It's a sign of desperation and political naivety on behalf of the
government."

Mr McGuinness said the criticisms demonstrated that Fine Gael was suffering
from paranoia. He declared: "They have launched ridiculous and bizarre
allegations against me. Of course these are all rubbish."

He said that as Northern Ireland's deputy first minister he had helped bring
in thousands of jobs.

Adams brother to be tried

* The brother of Sinn Fein president Gerry Adams is to be extradited to
Northern Ireland to stand trial on allegations that he sexually abused his
daughter. Liam Dominic Adams is wanted by the Police Service of Northern
Ireland in relation to 18 alleged offences against Aine Tyrell, who has   waived
her right to anonymity.

The 56-year-old, who denies the allegations, lost his fight against
extradition from the Irish Republic at the High Court in Dublin. Mr Adams   has
15 days to lodge an appeal against the court's ruling before the   extradition
order takes effect.

LOAD-DATE: October 4, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication


                  Copyright 2011 Independent News & Media plc
                              All Rights Reserved

                              106 of 331 DOCUMENTS



                            The Independent (London)

                            October 4, 2011 Tuesday
                                 First Edition

'Terrorist' McGuinness attacked by poll rivals

BYLINE: David McKittrick Ireland Correspondent

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 570 words


The political party that heads the Irish government has launched a barrage of
criticism of Martin McGuinness's IRA past as he campaigns to become President of
the Irish Republic.

In one of several heated exchanges between Mr McGuinness and senior members of
Fine Gael, the senior partner in the Republic's ruling coalition, the Sinn Fein
figure was described as a terrorist who benefited from a bank robbery carried
out by the IRA. Mr McGuinness responded that he was the victim of dirty tricks
and a black propaganda campaign.

Of the seven candidates in the presidential race Mr McGuinness is currently
placed third by Dublin bookies. By contrast, the Dublin politician Gay Mitchell,
who is standing as the Fine Gael candidate, is lagging in fifth place.

Although his party has potentially the most powerful political machine, Mr
Mitchell is regarded as an unexceptional figure whose campaign has yet to take
off.

So far the many attacks directed at Mr McGuinness have largely come from the
media, but now that the campaign is in full swing his opponents have joined the
fray.

Mr McGuinness has recently introduced a more conciliatory note to traditional
republican rhetoric, saying that his heart went out not just to the families of
republicans who were killed in the Troubles but also to the relatives of British
soldiers who died.

At the weekend he told The Independent that he accepted that IRA killings of
innocent people could be described as murder.

Mr Mitchell disputed Mr McGuinness's assertion that he has not been a member of
the IRA since the 1970s and that he lived on the average industrial wage. And
Phil Hogan, Minister for the Environment, described the Sinn Fein figure as "a
terrorist", saying corporate investment in Ireland could dwindle if Mr
McGuinness became President.

Another government figure said: "I wouldn't trust Martin McGuinness to take my
dog for a walk." Referring to the republican's pledge to draw only an average
salary if elected, he asked: "Why would you need your salary when you have the
proceeds of the Northern Bank at your disposal?"

This was a pointed reference to the IRA robbery at the Northern Bank in Belfast
in 2004, when £26m was stolen.

The McGuinness campaign described the bank claim as "outrageous, flippant,
idiotic and without merit". One spokesman said: "I didn't think senior
government ministers would go on national radio and give interviews to
newspapers and make attacks without foundation.

"It's a sign of desperation and political naivety on behalf of the government."

Mr McGuinness said the criticisms demonstrated that Fine Gael was suffering from
paranoia. He declared: "They have launched ridiculous and bizarre allegations
against me. Of course these are all rubbish."

He said that as Northern Ireland's deputy first minister he had helped bring in
thousands of jobs.

ADAMS BROTHER TO BE TRIED

* The brother of Sinn Fein president Gerry Adams is to be extradited to Northern
Ireland to stand trial on allegations that he sexually abused his daughter. Liam
Dominic Adams (above) is wanted by the Police Service of Northern Ireland in
relation to 18 alleged offences against Aine Tyrell, who has waived her right to
anonymity.

The 56-year-old, who denies the allegations, lost his fight against extradition
from the Irish Republic at the High Court in Dublin. Mr Adams has 15 days to
lodge an appeal against the court's ruling before the extradition order takes
effect.

LOAD-DATE: October 3, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: IA


                      Copyright 2011 Independent Print Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                              107 of 331 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring Middle East - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                           October 5, 2011 Wednesday

Israeli army boosts security in Elat area to prevent terror attacks

LENGTH: 467 words


Text of report in English by privately-owned Israeli daily The Jerusalem Post
website on 5 October

[Report by Ya'aqov Katz: "IDF Boosts Security Around Elat"]

Navy increases Red Sea patrols for holiday season with thousands of tourists
expected in Elat over the holidays, the IDF has beefed up its forces around the
city and along the southern part of the Egyptian border amid intelligence
reports that Palestinian terror groups are planning additional attacks in the
area. Since the mid-August border attacks that killed eight Israelis, including
an IDF soldier and an elite Border Policeman, the IDF has significantly boosted
its presence along the frontier both on land and at sea.

According to Cmdr. Zvika Shahar, who heads naval forces in the Red Sea, the navy
has increased its patrols in international waters as part of an effort to boost
Israel's deterrence and make potential attackers aware of its presence. "We
patrol relevant places and go where we are allowed to sail according to
international law," Shahar said. "We want neighbouring countries and others to
see that we are there."

While Shahar would not provide specifics, the Israel Navy has in recent years
increased its patrols as far south as the Straits of Tiran and near the entrance
to the Suez Canal. According to foreign reports, it has also operated off the
coast of Sudan.

The navy's concern is that terrorists will try to infiltrate the resort town of
Elat by sea, either via boat or by swimming. Another possibility is that they
will ram an explosives-packed speedboat into a beach side target. "We know the
sea has been used in the past and we think it can be used in the future, and we
are preparing for all kinds of scenarios," Shahar said.

On the ground, the IDF's 80th Division is in the process of reviewing current
plans to seal off the border with Egypt. One example is to possibly turn the
fence under construction into a smart electronic fence that sets off an alarm
when touched.

Following the attacks in August, the division established a special brigade
command, which is located in Elat and currently manned by the Golani Brigade.
"We understood that the situation along the border had changed several months
before the attack but the attack sped up the changes that we were in the process
of implementing," explained Lt-Col Tal Carmel, the division's chief operations
officer.

According to Carmel, despite the threats, the IDF has assessed that Elat is safe
and secure for tourists to visit over the upcoming holiday season. "We are
increasing our forces ahead of the holidays and we are encouraging people to
visit the area and to hike in the nature reserves," he said, adding that areas
close to the border with Egypt would be off limits to civilians.

Source: The Jerusalem Post website, Jerusalem, in English 5 Oct 11

LOAD-DATE: October 5, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2011 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              108 of 331 DOCUMENTS


                 BBC Monitoring Former Soviet Union - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                           October 5, 2011 Wednesday

Russia says slain Ingushetia gunman involved in attacks on police, terror plots

LENGTH: 265 words


Text of report by corporate-owned Russian news agency Interfax

Nazran, 5 October: During a special operation in Nazran, law-enforcement
officers have killed a bandit, Ruslan Tsurov, implicated in attacks on police
and the preparation of terrorist acts.

"In a joint special operation by FSB [Federal Security Service] and Ministry of
Internal Affairs officials on Wednesday [5 October] afternoon, an attempt was
made to check the documents of a suspicious man. He responded by opening fire
and was killed when fire was returned," the press service of the FSB directorate
for Ingushetia told Interfax-South agency.

The press service representative said that a Makarov pistol and corresponding
ammunition were found at the scene of the incident.

According to the FSB, the gunman was Ruslan Tsurov, born in 1986, who was an
active member of the so-called "Nazran bandit group" and was involved in
numerous armed attacks on law-enforcement officials and the preparation of
terrorist acts.

[According to a later Interfax report, there has been a similar incident near
the village of Bilidzhi in Dagestan's Derbentskiy District. A passenger in a car
stopped by police officers for the identification of its occupants opened fire
and was subsequently shot dead. No-one else was reported to have been hurt in
the incident, which took place at about 1400 gmt on 5 October. The identity of
the dead man could not be immediately established. The driver of the car was
detained. (Interfax news agency, Moscow, in Russian 1444 gmt 5 Oct 11)]

Source: Interfax news agency, Moscow, in Russian 1407 gmt 5 Oct 11

LOAD-DATE: October 6, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2011 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              109 of 331 DOCUMENTS



                                  M2 PressWIRE

                           October 5, 2011 Wednesday

Press Releases: Terrorist Attack in Somalia

LENGTH: 191 words


October 4, 2011

Hillary Rodham Clinton

Secretary of State Washington, DC

The United States strongly condemns today's vicious attack by al-Shabaab against
innocent civilians in Mogadishu. Many of the victims were students working to
earn scholarships to continue their education and help them realize their
potential. This cowardly act of terrorism once again demonstrates al-Shabaab's
complete disregard for human life and Somalia's future.



Al-Shabaab continues to threaten and kill aid workers. They have murdered the
very people they claim to want to protect. At a time when the world is focused
on helping Somalis who are suffering from drought and famine, al-Shabaab is
ignoring calls by the Arab League, international community, and the people of
Somalia to allow the uninhibited delivery of urgently needed relief to those
desperately in need of assistance.

Our condolences go out to the families, friends, and loved ones of the victims.
The United States is committed to standing with all Somalis who seek peace --
including Somalia's Transitional Federal Government -- as they work toward
stability in Somalia and throughout the region.

LOAD-DATE: October 5, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newswire

JOURNAL-CODE: M2PW


                      Copyright 2011 Normans Media Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              110 of 331 DOCUMENTS



                                BreakingNews.ie

                     October 6, 2011 Thursday 09:24 AM GMT

Somali militants threaten more terror attacks

SECTION: WORLD NEWS

LENGTH: 562 words


Al-Qaida-linked militants have threatened more terror attacks that will
"increase day by day" after a suicide bomber killed 72 people in Somalia.

Mourners transported coffins on cars to funerals for those who perished in al
-Shabab's deadliest bomb attack.

A truck loaded with drums of fuel exploded on Tuesday at the gate of a building
housing several government ministries in a busy street in Mogadishu, where tens
of thousands of famine victims have fled.

The attack came more than a month after most al-Shabab fighters melted away from
the capital amid a pro-government offensive, and showed that the insurgents
remain a severe threat.

"At this time, when the country is in the midst of a worsening humanitarian
crisis, the terrorists could not have attacked the Somali people at a worse
time," Information Minister Abdulkadir Hussein Mohamed said.

Al-Shabab spokesman Ali Mohamud Rage identified the suicide bomber as Somali
student Bashar Abdullahi Nur. He said the attack was a warning to those who
thought the group had left Mogadishu for good in August.

"We wish to inform the Muslim people that the campaign against infidels will be
back-to-back and by God's grace will increase day by day and will increase in
the coming hours," Rage said. "I will give a good tiding to the infidels: You
will face big and broad blows."

In a pre-recorded farewell interview with an al-Shabab radio station, the bomber
said: "It will be a big blow to the heart of the enemy."

Tuesday's thunderous blast covered the city in dust and left blackened corpses
sprawled amid burning vehicles. Somalia's Ministry of Health said yesterday that
72 people had been killed and more than 100 were wounded, including 38 still in
serious condition.

"May Allah put them in hell," one Somali woman sobbed as a young man tried to
comfort her. She then collapsed near the coffin of her dead son that was placed
by a sandy grave.

Sadiya Omar, who lost her husband in Tuesday's bombing, left the scene of the
funeral before he was interred, saying it was more than she could bear.

"The world will get no peace while killers like al Shabab are still here," she
cried, her tears dripping through her black veil.

President Sheik Sharif Sheikh Ahmed declared three days of mourning and vowed
that his government would put in place security measures to avert future
bombings.

"I'm sure the crime they committed against the Somali people will not go
unpunished," Ahmed said of the al-Shabab militants. "God will punish them and
the government will take appropriate measures to save the Somali people from
those dangers."

However, Ahmed's government does not have sufficient troops or police to secure
the capital city, and neither does the more than 9,000-strong African Union
peacekeeping force that supports his regime.

Somali expert Ken Menkhaus said in a recent interview that al-Shabab's
withdrawal from the city would overextend the AU forces, exposing the
government's inability to hold and govern territory and allowing the militants
to mount hit-and-run attacks.

The head of the African Union peacekeepers appealed for more troops in August to
secure Mogadishu following al Shabab's withdrawal. Major General Fred Mugisha
said that since the withdrawal, his forces cover a larger area and risk being
overstretched. He said the deployment of 3,000 extra troops authorised by the UN
Security Council should be hastened.

LOAD-DATE: October 6, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication


                    Copyright 2011 Thomas Crosbie Media Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              111 of 331 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                       October 7, 2011 Friday 4:32 PM GMT

Meet the Business Thinking finalists: Wales;
Excelerate, a business that helps emergency services cope with terrorist
attacks, is among the Welsh finalists in HSBC's £108m mentoring, export and
finance competition.

BYLINE: Dan Matthews

LENGTH: 991 words


Excelerate

David Savage (left), a journeyman IT professional, started Excelerate just as
the September 11 terrorist attacks caused a fundamental rethink about how
approaches to disasters, accidents and crime are tackled worldwide.

Police, fire brigades and ambulance services all need sophisticated
communications to co-ordinate their response to emergencies and to limit risk.
In the post-9/11 era, there is greater demand for command and control
applications, Mr Savage says.

"It's an unfortunate fact that every major attack exposes inadequacies in
telecommunications, technology and working practices. Whenever they occur there
are always investigations into how things can be managed better; we're part of
the 'managing it better' process."

Products offered by Excelerate include wireless broadband, private GSM networks,
GIS mapping and dual thermal, body-worn and high-reach cameras. "Our core
business is delivering broadband to emergency services via satellite, then
supplying applications that run over that broadband."

Despite continued terrorist attacks across the world and the perceived need for
better approaches to prevention, Cardiff-based Excelerate has not been an
overnight success. The company's turnover reached £5.3m in 2010 after a
protracted period of slow growth, according to Mr Savage.

"It's the longest start-up I've ever been involved with. It took six years to
breach the £1m turnover mark and I ploughed everything I had into the business.
But in the last three years we could be winning awards for our profitability."
In 2008, sales reached £1.6m. The following year it was £4.1m, last year £5.3m,
and the business is on course for 50pc growth in the UK alone this year. Three
years ago there were five staff, today there are 37.

The business is unrecognisable from the original business plan, Mr Savage says,
with every incident taking the business in new directions and client demands
defining what applications are developed next. "The growth chart looks a bit
like a hockey stick, but we now have a disproportionately large amount of cash
at our disposal for working capital, acquisitions and research and development.

"I want to be one of the most profitable businesses per employee in the country,
and I want to reward staff on that basis. I started this business with the
intention of never having to make people redundant, so I'm careful about how
much cash we have in reserve." With money to spend, Excelerate is venturing into
new markets. The economic slowdown at home, coupled with large cuts in
government departments' budgets, means the business must look further afield for
lucrative contracts.

According to Mr Savage, Excelerate's contracts are split equally between
business it chases and business that comes knocking. But the balance is shifting
as the company becomes more widely known. Given Mr Savage's developing role as
an adviser to the Cabinet Office and Home Office and with the London 2012
Olympic Games just around the corner, it's a promising time for the business, he
says.

"We are looking beyond Europe, where governments have little or no money to
spend, to Asia and Australasia, where cutbacks have been less severe and where
technology is not as developed as in the UK.

"Getting involved with Business Thinking means that we can spread the word about
what we do internationally, and encourage would-be clients to approach us
instead of us having to find them. "It's also great to get exposure to senior
people who have a global and corporate view, as well as mixing with other
finalists - so long as they aren't competitors we'll get along fine."

Epitiro

Online services are probably the easiest thing to export, according to Gavin
Johns (below), chief executive and co-founder of Epitiro.

Much more so than physical products that must be made and delivered.

"We're not too hung up on the various barriers - physical ones and in terms of
paperwork - affecting most companies that want to export overseas.''

The Cardiff-based business provides information about user experience to
telecoms networks, regulators such as the UK's Ofcom and NGOs such as the OECD.

The plan is to capitalise on this relatively smooth path to export markets
around the world. Over the next five years, Mr Johns and co-founder Jon Curley
want to build a partner network in new territories, giving them access to a huge
base of potential customers.

TBDUK

TBDUK is part of a family of companies which has its origins in the Forties.
Today, it manufactures ground support equipment for the aerospace and defence
industries around the world. After completing a major factory extension this
year, the Bridgend business occupies a 12-acre site and employs a total of 95
people.

Wild Country

The Llanberis-based climbing apparatus manufacturing and distribution business
Wild Country began life in the Eighties with a single product, the Friend, which
now accounts for only 10pc of sales. Turnover last year was around £5m, and the
company employs 63 people, mainly in the UK. It also has staff in China, where
it has a manufacturing arm.

Mustang Marine

Based at Pembroke Dock, the commercial boat-building and repair business Mustang
Marine works in a tight niche - meaning its global market is a small one. As
such, exporting comes as standard, including to Pakistan, Kenya and China. The
business has just recovered from a period hit by recession, but its sales are
forecast to double next year.

Chepstow Plant Services

Since Jon Williams joined the family business in the Seventies, construction
equipment supplier Chepstow Plant Services has sold more than 4,000 machines to
85 countries around the world. The Newport-based company specialises in
supplying used heavy machinery, from bulldozers to dumper trucks.

LOAD-DATE: December 21, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTNS


                  Copyright 2011 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              112 of 331 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                      October 8, 2011 Saturday 9:00 PM GMT

200 suicide bombers 'planning attacks in UK';
At least 200 potential terrorists are actively planning suicide attacks while
living freely in Britain, intelligence chiefs have warned ministers.

BYLINE: By Sean Rayment Defence Correspondent

LENGTH: 803 words


A senior intelligence source has revealed that the figure is a "conservative"
estimate of the threat facing the country from UK-based Islamist suicide
bombers.

The would-be killers are among 2,000 extremists who the security services have
said are based in Britain and actively planning terrorist activity of some kind.

The figures are contained within a secret government report on the "enduring
terrorist threat" facing the UK from al-Qaeda and affiliated organisations, The
Sunday Telegraph has been told.

While the deaths of Osama bin Laden and Anwar al-Awlaki may have left al-Qaeda
without a charismatic leader, both the Secret Intelligence Service, MI6, and the
Security Service, MI5, believe the organisation remains as dangerous as ever.

The warning comes as Britain begins preparations for next year's 2012 Olympic
Games, which has been described by MI5 as the biggest security operation in the
country's history.

But senior sources believe that rather than targeting Olympic venues, where
security will be extremely high, terrorists will be tempted to attack areas
where crowds are likely to congregate such as train stations and public events.

If terrorists were to mount an attack in Britain of the kind seen in other
countries, by packing a single explosive vest with hundreds of ball bearings
then detonating it in a crowded enclosed area such as a station terminus at rush
hour, they could kill up to 120 people according to one explosives expert.

The 200 British residents thought to be planning suicide attacks, either within
the UK or overseas, represent one in 10 of the wider group of 2,000 terrorist
plotters.

The intelligence source added that suicide bombers would only be stopped by
either a "chance encounter" or by an intelligence-led investigation. But he
added that if a terrorist cell was properly organised and secure there was very
little the authorities could do to prevent an attack.

The latest disclosure follows the arrest of six men from Birmingham who were
remanded in custody two weeks ago over an alleged UK suicide bombing plot.

Two of the six, Irfan Nasser and Irfan Khalid, are accused of preparing for an
act of terrorism, including travelling to Pakistan for training in terrorism,
making a martyrdom video and planning a bombing campaign. They are also accused
of "being concerned in constructing" a home-made explosive device for terrorist
acts and stating an intention to be a suicide bomber.

Earlier this year, classified intelligence documents disclosed by the
whistle-blowing website WikiLeaks, showed that MI6 officers believed that
Britain was facing a wave of suicide attacks from British-based Muslim
extremists who had been trained in terrorist camps in Pakistan.

One report quoted an MI6 officer's briefing to US officials in which he said:
"The internal threat is growing more dangerous because some extremists are
conducting non-lethal training without ever leaving the country. Should these
extremists then decide to become suicide operatives, HMG [Her Majesty's
Government] intelligence resources, eavesdropping and surveillance would be hard
pressed to find them on any 'radar screen'."

One intelligence official told this newspaper: "We may have only had one
'successful' suicide attack in Britain but the tactic remains an enduring
threat. This is a generational problem we are facing. The terrorists are
learning all the time and adapting their tactics. They now operate a cell
structure and there security is very tight.

"Suicide bombers know the signs we will be looking for. So they don't pray in
the moments before an attack, there will be no heavy coats in summer and they
are becoming much more security aware. For every countermeasure we develop they
create a new 'measure'. They will always be looking for our exposed flank."

Intelligence experts believe that suicide bombers are motivated by a number of
factors including politics, religion, poverty, finance and social factors.

Research has shown that they can be drawn from all social strata and can range
from the well-educated to the mentally impaired. In Iraq and Afghanistan, young
children and women have been recruited, while in London, the 7/7 bombers who
killed 52 people and injured hundreds more in four coordinated attacks on the
Tube and bus network came from stable backgrounds with close families.

Another classified report, details of which have been passed to this newspaper,
stated that suicide attacks had developed as the weapon of choice for al-Qaeda
and its supporters because of the level of fear that such attacks can engender.

The report cited examples of past suicide attacks which were perceived by the
organisations which mounted them as having produced successful outcomes, such as
the Beirut barracks bombing of 1983 which was followed by the withdrawal of US
forces from Lebanon.

LOAD-DATE: December 21, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTNS


                  Copyright 2011 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              113 of 331 DOCUMENTS



                                 Sunday Mirror

                             October 9, 2011 Sunday
                                 3 Star Edition

SLAIN TERROR LEADER WAS POISED TO ATTACK UK

BYLINE: NICK OWENS

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 19

LENGTH: 213 words


TeRRORiST chief Anwar al-Awlaki is believed to have been plotting attacks in the
UK, Australia and the US before he was killed.

Security officials suspect the Al Qaeda mastermind had targeted London's
transport network, Sydney Opera House and New York's Grand Central Station as
targets.

They all appear in al-Awlaki's internet magazine inspire, published three days
before he died in a US drone strike in Yemen on September 30.

Also pictured are Times Square, passenger jets and the wrecked London bus from
the 7/7 bombings.

Al-Awalki had written on the site: "We will bomb and we will assassinate."

Security chiefs fear terror cells may go ahead with atrocities at the same spots
to avenge his death.

British jihadists have hailed al-Awlaki's "martyrdom" in online videos. Muslims
Against Crusades, who demonstrate against our troops being in Afghanistan, have
also made a video in his honour.

The US-born fanatic was in charge of the plot which saw underpants bomber Umar
Farouk Abdulmutallab try to blow up a Detroitbound airliner on Christmas Day in
2009.

He was also involved when an explosive device was found on a UPS cargo jet at
east Midlands Airport last year.

Recordings of his sermons also inspired Roshonara Choudhry to attempt to stab
Labour MP Stephen Timms to death in 2009.

LOAD-DATE: October 9, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Killed... Anwar al-Awlaki

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                            Copyright 2011 MGN Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              114 of 331 DOCUMENTS


                                  Sunday Mail

                            October 9, 2011, Sunday

OAP FIEND POUNCED ON CARER;
KIM'S PAEDOPHILE ATTACK TERROR

BYLINE: MARION SCOTT

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 30,31

LENGTH: 376 words


A PAEDOPHILE pensioner faces being sent back to prison for attacking a carer who
gave him a bath.

Alexander Wilson, 68, who abused eight girls over 19 years, left Kim Meikle
terrified by grabbing her round the neck in a "choke hold".

Mum-of-two Kim, 42, said: "I was shocked by how quickly he moved and what he
did. He was so strong, I couldn't break his grip.

"I still have nightmares about what he might have done. I keep wondering if he
was practising on me - or what he could have done if he'd got hold of a child.

"I hope he gets sent back to jail where he belongs."

Former bus driver Wilson preyed on girls in care at Quarrier's Children's
Village in Bridge of Weir, Renfrewshire, where his late wife worked. He was
jailed in 2004 for more than seven-and-a-half years. But he was freed early in
2009 and allowed to return home, even though it's within sight of the scene of
his crimes.

Bosses at a care firm hired by the council sent Kim to help look after Wilson,
who has two false legs.

Kim recalled: "Carers were expected to give him a bath and do a bit of
housework. I'd attended him three times before he attacked me.

"He beckoned me to look out a window. When I did, he grabbed me from behind in a
choke hold.

"I was completely caught off guard and struggled to get him off me."

Kim only managed to free herself after a colleague came into the room. She has
now quit her job with Kilmacolm-based Confident Care.

She said: "I'd been told Wilson was a sex offender who'd been in prison but the
details were not fully disclosed. When I found out much later exactly what he'd
done, I felt sick."

Wilson was convicted at Greenock Sheriff Court of the assault, and will be
sentenced on October 20.

He is the brother-in-law of "Beast in the Belltower" John Porteous, 77, who got
eight years in 2002 - reduced to five on appeal - for abusing two boys in his
care at Quarrier's.

Confident Care are still sending staff to Wilson. Evelyn Campbell of the firm
said: "The poor man is facing a possible prison sentence."

Inverclyde Council said they shared information "as appropriate" when services
were provided on their behalf, to allow risk assessments. Quarrier's said they
"expressed concerns to all the relevant authorities" when Wilson was allowed to
return to his home.

LOAD-DATE: October 9, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Ordeal: Victim Kim, left, told how Wilson - who had previously abused
kids at Quarrier's, far left - attacked her as she bathed him Guilty: Wilson
will be sentenced later this month

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


            Copyright 2011 Scottish Daily Record & Sunday Mail Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              115 of 331 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring Middle East - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                            October 10, 2011 Monday

Syrian soldiers recount attack by ''terror groups''

LENGTH: 202 words


Text of report in English by state-run Syrian news agency SANA website

["Number of Army, Law-Enforcement Personnel Recount Details of Terrorist Groups'
Crimes" - SANA Headline]

Homs, (SANA) - A number of injured army soldiers and law-enforcement personnel
on Sunday [9 October] recounted the details of the crimes committed by the armed
terrorist groups in Jibreen area in Hama Governorate.

Major Hassan Ali Suleiman told the Syrian TV: "We were in pursuit of armed
terrorist groups' members in Jibreen area when we were exposed to heavy fire
that caused the injury of many of my colleagues." He added that "we tried to
provide medical aid for the wounded but we couldn't because of the heavy fire.
Later, we managed to provide aid to the wounded after organizing a second group.
First Lieutenant Mohammad Alloush was martyred in the operation."

For his part, Ayham al-Houtan said: "We came under heavy fire while on duty at a
farm in Jibreen area in Hama Countryside."

Another wounded, Youssef Barakat, said: "While we were on duty in al-Mzereeb
area in Hama, armed terrorist groups opened fire on us. They were using
machine-guns, snipers and RPG rounds."

Source: SANA news agency website, Damascus in English 10 Oct 11

LOAD-DATE: October 10, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2011 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              116 of 331 DOCUMENTS


                        BBC Monitoring Central Asia Unit
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                            October 10, 2011 Monday

Suspects detained in Kyrgyz south "plotted terrorist attacks" - agency

LENGTH: 216 words


Excerpt from report by corporate-owned Russian news agency Interfax

Bishkek, 10 October: Those ten [suspected] terrorists from the Union of Islamic
Jihad who were detained in southern Kyrgyzstan's Osh Region were planning to
carry out a number of terrorist attacks in the country to destabilize the
situation during the presidential election [to be held on 30 October].

"There are citizens of different nationalities among the detainees, including
Kyrgyz, Uzbeks, Tajiks and Uighurs," the chairman of the Kyrgyz State National
Security Committee, Keneshbek Duyshebayev, told the Interfax news agency today.

"However, we will prevent destabilization, and rapid investigative measures are
under way in the south," the security chief underlined.

He noted that ahead of the presidential election scheduled for 30 October, all
the security bodies of Kyrgyzstan and the country's law-enforcement agencies
"are involved in a programme to ensure security, and heightened measures are
being taken to ensure law and order in the country".

[Passage omitted: on 8 October, Kyrgyz security forces conducted a special
operation "to liquidate a group of terrorists" in the city of Osh; one of the
suspects were killed during the operation - covered]

Source: Interfax news agency, Moscow, in Russian 0940 gmt 10 Oct 11

LOAD-DATE: October 10, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2011 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              117 of 331 DOCUMENTS


                                  The Citizen

                            October 10, 2011 Monday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

Terror as masked trio attack store

BYLINE: Lucy Tatchell

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 359 words


MACHETE-WIELDING robbers stormed a village post office in a terrifying attempted
raid.

Three masked men barged into Upton St Leonards village post office, before
leaping over the counter and smashing protective glass in a bid to get money.

During the bungled raid, a 60-year-old shop worker was slashed across the hand
as she put her hands up to shield herself from attack.

The trio fled the store, in Churchfield Road, without taking anything, but have
left a community devastated. It happened in broad daylight, at 9am on Saturday.

Police put up a cordon around the store immediately after the attack, and have
now launched an investigation.

The criminals fled on bikes along Upton Lane.

The post office worker, who was with another female staff member at the time,
went to Gloucestershire Royal Hospital for treatment to her cuts but was
released on Saturday night.

Jane Ballard, from next door's Beau Belles clothes shop, said: "Everyone is
totally shocked.

"It is difficult to imagine you would have something like this happen in Upton.

"There are always people on bikes along here, so seeing a group would not
necessarily ring alarm bells."

A nearby resident, who did not wish to be named, said: "What an awful thing to
happen, and at such a strange time.

"You would expect something like that to happen very early in the morning or
late at night, not at 9am." Keith Pearson, chairman of Upton St Leonards parish
council, added: "I am horrified.

"We have very little crime in this area. "I am so pleased they did not get
anything, clearly a bunch of amateurs on push bikes with machetes."

Police have done forensics at the scene and also used a helicopter to try to
find the offenders.

The post office is due to be open for trading as normal today.

Staff said they were "too traumatised" to speak of their ordeal.

The main attacker is described as white, aged in his late teens or early 20s,
tall and of stocky build.

He was wearing a covering over his face.

Anyone with information who has not already spoken to police is urged to call
the new non-emergency number 101, quoting incident 150 of October 8.
Alternatively, call Crimestoppers anonymously on 0800 555 111.

LOAD-DATE: October 10, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: ¦ CRIME SCENE: The post office in Upton St Leonards.
Picture: Paul Nicholls GLpn20111008C-005_C

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: CIT


                           Copyright 2011 The Citizen
                              All Rights Reserved

                              118 of 331 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring Middle East - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                            October 11, 2011 Tuesday

Syrian "terrorist gangs" attack external part of Homs police station, hospital

LENGTH: 267 words


Text of report in English by state-run Syrian news agency SANA website

["Terrorist gangs attack external part of Homs Police Station and Homs National
Hospital"]

Homs, Idlib, 11 October - Two armed terrorist gangs on Monday [10 October]
evening attacked the external part of Homs Police Station and the National
Hospital in the central province.

An official police source said that terrorist gunmen fired rocket-propelled
grenades and opened fire on the external part of the police station which lies
on the way to Hama, injuring a policeman.

Another terrorist gang attacked Homs National Hospital, opening fire on it. A
bus driver was injured while none of the Hospital staff or patients got injured
in the attack, according to the source.

The authorities returned to fire, causing the terrorist group to flee.

Dr Ali Ahmad, Head of Emergency Room at Homs National Hospital, escaped an
assassination attempt when a terrorist gang opened fire on him as he was on his
way back home.

The source said that Dr Ahmad was returning to his house in Karm Azzaitoun
Street after he was on a visit to a friend when gunmen opened fire on him,
causing him some injures.

In the Northern Province of Idelb, an armed terrorist group intercepted
Secretary of al-Baath Party of Maart al-Noman Division, Hassan Rahhal while he
was on the way to work. They stole the car and threatened to kill him.

Rahhal told SANA that eight gunmen on four motorcycles intercepted him on
Maarshmarin-Maart al-Noman road, pointing out that the gunmen possessed AK-47
and hand grenades.

Source: SANA news agency website, Damascus in English 11 Oct 11

LOAD-DATE: October 11, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2011 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              119 of 331 DOCUMENTS


                       BBC Monitoring Africa - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                            October 11, 2011 Tuesday

Ethiopian rebel group condemns Mogadishu terrorist attack

LENGTH: 171 words


Text of statement in English issued by the Ethiopian opposition Ogaden National
Liberation Front, published by its official website onlf.org on 9 October

The Ogaden National Liberation Front (ONLF, [Ethiopian rebel group operating in
southeastern Ethiopia]) strongly condemns the brutal and barbaric terrorist
attack [carried out presumably by Al-Shabab] against innocent civilians in
Mogadishu which resulted in the death of over 100 people, mainly students, this
past Tuesday [4 October].

This attack by the enemies of the Somali people and nation demonstrates the
extent to which those forces determined to prevent peace, progress and democracy
in Somalia are willing to go. The perpetrators of this attack represent a cancer
in Somali society which simply needs to be removed.

The people of Ogaden and the leadership of the ONLF stand in strong solidarity
with the people of Somalia during this difficult time.

[Issued by] Ogaden National Liberation Front (ONLF)

Source: Ogaden National Liberation Front website, in English 9 Oct 11

LOAD-DATE: October 11, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2011 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              120 of 331 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring Middle East - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                            October 11, 2011 Tuesday

"Terrorist" carries out suicide attack near police patrol - Yemen TV

LENGTH: 65 words


At 1541 gmt on 11 October, Yemen TV, the official television station of the
Yemeni Government, carries the following "breaking news" as a screen caption:

"Eyewitnesses: A terrorist has blown himself up near a Rescue Police patrol in
Al-Sakhrah roundabout in Al-Tawahi area, Aden. The blast left two wounded among
the patrol's men."

Source: Republic of Yemen TV, Sanaa, in Arabic 1541 gmt 11 Oct 11

LOAD-DATE: October 11, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2011 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              121 of 331 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring Middle East - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                            October 11, 2011 Tuesday

Israeli defence minister says "price tag" attackers operate "like terrorists"

LENGTH: 185 words


Excerpt from report in English by privately-owned Israeli daily The Jerusalem
Post website on 11 October

[Unattributed report: "Baraq: 'Price tag' attackers operate almost like
terrorists"]

Defence Minister Ehud Baraq said Tuesday [11 October] that groups of settlers
carrying out self-defined "price tag" attacks against Palestinians "operate
almost like terrorist organizations."The attacks, carried out against
Palestinians and private property, "embarrass the State of Israel," he said
during a military tour. Baraq also praised the West Bank settlement leadership
for condemning the acts.

Last week a mosque in the northern town of Tuba Zanjariyyah was burned, causing
significant damage. The attackers left the words "price tag" scrawled on nearby
walls. "These are events that need to be fought against. They humiliate the
State of Israel and harm its strength and the legitimacy of all settlement
within it," Baraq said. The attacks also harm "Israel's standing and normal
relations with our neighbours, the Palestinians." [passage omitted]

Source: The Jerusalem Post website, Jerusalem, in English 11 Oct 11

LOAD-DATE: October 11, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2011 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              122 of 331 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                     October 11, 2011 Tuesday 11:25 PM GMT

US charges two Iranians in plot to kill Saudi ambassador;
Tensions between the US and Iran were raised sharply on Tuesday night after
Iranian government officials were accused by the Obama administration of
plotting a string of deadly terrorist attacks on American soil.

LENGTH: 763 words


Military commanders in Tehran were alleged to have ordered an Iranian-American
to blow up embassies in Washington and to assassinate the Saudi Arabian
ambassador in a "deadly murder plot".

"This conspiracy was conceived, sponsored and directed from Iran," said Mr
Holder, in an extraordinary announcement. "The United States is committed to
holding Iran accountable."

Mr Holder said that the alleged plot was a "flagrant violation of international
law". Republican congressmen even described it as an "act of war" and urged Mr
Obama to retaliate. Mahmoud Ahmadinejad, the Iranian president, promptly
dismissed the allegations as a "child's story" and a "complete fabrication".

Senior officials from a branch of Iran's Revolutionary Guard are said to have
directed Manssor Arbabsiar, of Texas, to hire Mexican gangsters to kill Adel
Al-Jubeir, the Saudi envoy to Washington.

Arbabsiar, 56, who holds Iranian and American passports, is alleged to have been
paid $100,000 (£63,000) from Iran as a deposit for a $1.5 million (£960,000)
bounty for Al-Jubeir's murder.

The money is alleged to have then been transferred to a contact that Arbabsiar
believed was a leading Mexican drug cartel chief, but was in fact a US
government informant.

Arbabsiar was arrested in New York last month after travelling to Mexico to
allegedly finalise plans for his plot. He was charged with multiple crimes
including conspiracy to murder a foreign official and conspiracy to use a weapon
of mass destruction.

Robert Mueller, the Director of the FBI, said: "Though it reads like the pages
of a Hollywood script, the impact would have been very real".

Preet Bharara, the US attorney in Manhattan, where Arbabsiar is being
prosecuted, said: "We will not let other countries use our soil as their
battleground."

Arbabsiar was arrested in New York last month

Ted Poe, a Republican congressman for Texas who sits on the House foreign
affairs committee, said: "To me it is an act of war that has been foiled ...
We're not dealing with a group of terrorist cells without borders - we're
dealing with another government, and we retaliate to that."

Hillary Clinton, the US Secretary of State, said on Tuesday night that the
alleged plot "crosses a line" in Iran's sponsorship of terrorism. "We will be
consulting with our friends and partners around the world about how we can send
a very strong message," she said. The Saudi government thanked the US for
preventing what it said was a "despicable" terrorist plot.

Downing Street said that David Cameron would "support measures to hold Iran
accountable". A No 10 spokesman said: *"*Indications that this plot was directed
by elements of the Iranian regime are shocking. Directing an attack against
another country is a flagrant violation of international law".

The criminal complaint alleges that in July, Arbabsiar told the informant that
attacks must go ahead on foreign embassies in Washington - said by officials to
have been the Saudi and Israeli bases - "despite mass casualties".

"They want that guy [the Ambassador] done [killed]," he is alleged to have said.
When told bombing a nearby restaurant, said to have been the Saudi ambassador's
favourite, could kill innocent bystanders such as US congressmen, he allegedly
said "no big deal."

Arbabsiar was arrested after returning the US late last month when he was
refused entry to Mexico. He allegedly confessed to his participation in the
murder plot, and "admitted to agents that, in connection with this plot, he was
recruited, funded and directed by men he understood to be senior officials in
Iran's Quds Force", the Revolutionary Guard's special operations unit.

He is said to have been directed primarily by Gholam Shakuri, a senior member of
the Quds Force. Shakuri remains at large in Iran.

Earlier this month he allegedly called Shakuri to discuss the plot while US
officials listened in. Shakuri is alleged to have urged him: "Just do it
quickly, it's late".

The Quds Force has been designated as a terrorist sponsor by the US since 2007
for allegedly providing support to the Taliban and other extremist groups.

The alleged plot comes amid a prolonged period of heightened tensions between
Saudi Arabia and Iran. Diplomatic cables released earlier this year by WikiLeaks
disclosed that the Saudi government had urged the US to "cut off the head of the
snake" by attacking Iran.

Relations have also been worsened by what the Saudis see as Iranian
encouragement of unrest in Bahrain, an important to ally to both Saudi Arabia
and the US, which has been pulled into the Arab Spring by dissidents.

LOAD-DATE: December 21, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTNS


                  Copyright 2011 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              123 of 331 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                      October 11, 2011 Tuesday 9:17 PM GMT

US reveal foiled 'Iran terror plot';
Attorney General Eric Holder reveals that US authorities have charged two
Iranians over a plot to kill the Saudi ambassador to America as 'the opening
act' of a major terror attack

LENGTH: 124 words


Two men - one Iranian and one American of Iranian descent - have been charged
with counts of conspiracy, said Mr Holder, who added that the alleged plot to
kill Adel Al-Jubeir was a "flagrant violation of international law".

"This conspiracy was conceived, sponsored and directed from Iran," said Mr
Holder, in an extraordinary announcement. "The United States is committed to
holding Iran accountable."

One of the men charged is already in US custody having confessed his involvement
in the alleged plot after being arrested on September 29 at JFK airport. He was
named as Manssor Arbabsiar, a 56-year-old naturalised US citizen who holds both
Iranian and American passports.

The other man, named as Gholam Shakuri, is said to be at large in Iran.

LOAD-DATE: December 21, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTNS


                  Copyright 2011 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              124 of 331 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                      October 11, 2011 Tuesday 8:00 PM GMT

US charges two Iranians in plot to kill Saudi ambassador;
US authorities have charged two Iranians in a "plot directed by elements of the
Iranian government" to kill the Saudi ambassador to the US as part of a major
terror attack.

LENGTH: 293 words


A criminal complaint charges Manssor Arbabsiar, a 56-year-old naturalised US
citizen holding both Iranian and US passports, and Gholam Shakuri, an Iran-based
member of Iran's Quds Force, in the plot, the Justice Department said.

The plot called for the assassination of the Saudi envoy in an explosives
attack, which could have killed many other people and would have been just "the
opening act" in an attack on US soil, officials said.

Shakuri remains at large. Arbabsiar was arrested on September 29 at New York's
John F. Kennedy International Airport and was to make his initial appearance
Tuesday before in federal court in Manhattan. He faces a maximum potential
sentence of life in prison if convicted of all the charges.

"The criminal complaint unsealed today exposes a deadly plot directed by
factions of the Iranian government to assassinate a foreign ambassador on US
soil with explosives," said Attorney General Eric Holder.

"Through the diligent and coordinated efforts of our law enforcement and
intelligence agencies, we were able to disrupt this plot before anyone was
harmed. We will continue to investigate this matter vigorously and bring those
who have violated any laws to justice."

Holder said the plot was "conceived, sponsored and directed from Iran."

News reports said the plot also included a bomb and subsequent bomb attacks on
the Saudi and Israeli embassies in Washington.

The case, called Operation Red Coalition, began in May when an Iranian-American
from Corpus Christi, Texas, approached a US informant seeking the help of a
Mexican drug cartel to assassinate the Saudi ambassador, according to
counter-terrorism officials.

The Iranian-American thought he was dealing with a member of a Mexican drug
organisation, according to documents.

LOAD-DATE: December 21, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTNS


                  Copyright 2011 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              125 of 331 DOCUMENTS



                               The Times (London)

                            October 11, 2011 Tuesday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

Woman killed in random attack as knife rampage brings terror to busy high street

BYLINE: Fiona Hamilton; John Simpson

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 440 words


A woman stole a knife from a butcher's shop and killed a 59-year-old mother of
two in a busy shopping street yesterday.

The attacker, 32, who also slashed the hand of a 23-year-old woman, is thought
to have picked her victims at random.

Sally Hodkin died on her way to work in Bexleyheath, southeast London, after
being stabbed in the neck about 15 minutes after the 23-year-old woman was
attacked. The suspect then walked into a tile shop with blood on her hand and
told the manager to call the police because "I think I have killed someone".

She told police that she should have been sectioned under the Mental Health Act
the previous day.

Scotland Yard confirmed that a woman took a knife from an Asda store before
slashing the hand of the 23-year-old at a bus stop. It is understood that she
struggled with Asda security guards after stealing the weapon.

Her victim, who was taken to hospital, is thought to have disarmed her but she
then went to the British Meat Market in Broadway, 150 yards away, and stole a
12in knife. She threatened the manager before allegedly attacking Mrs Hodkin at
about 8.30am.

Detective Superintendent Keith Ni, of the Scotland Yard homicide command, said
that there was no information to suggest that the victims were known to each
other or the suspect.

The family of Mrs Hodkin, who has two adult sons and was married for 40 years,
laid flowers at the scene yesterday afternoon. Mrs Hodkin lived close to where
she died and worked for Cunningham Blake solicitors in Blackheath. The firm was
closed yesterday.

Ryan Higgins, who works at Bexleyheath Tile Centre, 50 yards from where Mrs
Hodkin was killed, told how a woman walked into the store and told him: "I think
I've hurt someone, I think I have killed someone." Mr Higgins said: "She asked
me to call the police. She told the police she was supposed to have been
mentally sectioned the day before and kept saying she wanted her medication. She
was quite calm."

David Russell, 59, who works at the Meat Market butchers' shop, told how a woman
walked behind the counter and picked up a knife. "I turned round and was about
to say, 'What do you think you're doing?' and she got the knife and raised it
above her head. Two 15-year-old schoolgirls fled the shop and ran into a nearby
petrol station. The shop's manager said: "They were shivering and really
scared."

Mark Dowling, 34, who lives next door to the Hodkin family, paid tribute
yesterday. Mrs Hodkin "was a very caring lady. They were just working people
doing their bit."

One mile River Thames London Erith Dartford Crossing Bexleyheath BEXLEY 8.30am
yesterday Woman killed and another injured Sidcup M25

LOAD-DATE: October 11, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Police at the scene in Bexleyheath, London, where Sally Hodkin, below,
died
GEORGIE GILLARD / PA

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: TIM


                    Copyright 2011 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              126 of 331 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring Middle East - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                           October 12, 2011 Wednesday

Aviation officer killed in "terrorist" attack on Yemen's Anad Airbase

LENGTH: 136 words


Text of report in English by state-run Yemeni news agency Saba website

["Terrorist Attack Kills Officer in Anad Airbase" - SABA Headline]

Sana'a, Oct. 11 (Saba) -Staff-officer of the aviation training wing in Anad
Airbase, Colonel Ameen al-Shami was killed Tuesday [11 October] in a terrorist
attack, a military official said.

A bomb hidden in al-Shami's car has blew up few meters after he left the Anad
market heading for the Airbase, the source said. The bomb immediately killed the
colonel and seriously wounded two other officers, according to the source.

The source said that the security authorities have launched full investigation
of the assault, stressing that those who were behind al-Shami's killing will be
punished sooner or later. AF

Source: Yemen News Agency Saba website, Sanaa, in English 1750 gmt 11 Oct 11

LOAD-DATE: October 12, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2011 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              127 of 331 DOCUMENTS


                 BBC Monitoring Former Soviet Union - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                           October 12, 2011 Wednesday

Russia concerned by reports on planned terror attacks in USA - ministry

LENGTH: 147 words


Text of report by the Russian Ministry of Foreign Affairs website on 12 October

Comment by Russian Foreign Ministry official spokesman A. K. [Aleksandr
Kazimirovich] Lukashevich

1544-12-10-2011

Moscow has received with concern reports about plans to commit terrorist acts in
the USA, including against the Saudi ambassador in Washington.

Russia is a consistent opponent of terrorism, of which our country has
first-hand experience. We condemn it in all its forms and manifestations.

We believe that effective counteraction to terrorist challenges lies in the
plane of strengthening broad international cooperation. To achieve this goal, we
are ready to cooperate with all interested states, including the United States.

We will most carefully study and analyse all the information on this story.

[Dated] 12 October 2011

Source: Ministry of Foreign Affairs website, Moscow, in Russian 12 Oct 11

LOAD-DATE: October 13, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2011 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              128 of 331 DOCUMENTS



                          The Daily Telegraph (London)

                           October 12, 2011 Wednesday
                                   Edition 3;
                                National Edition

Iran accused of plotting terrorist attacks in US;
Iran 'planned to attack embassies in US'

BYLINE: Jon Swaine

SECTION: NEWS; FRONT PAGE; Pg. 1,2

LENGTH: 383 words


TENSIONS between the United States and Iran rose sharply last night after
officials were accused by the Obama administration of plotting a string of
terrorist attacks on American soil.

Iranian military commanders in Tehran were alleged to have ordered an
Iranian-American to blow up embassies in Washington and to assassinate the Saudi
Arabian ambassador, potentially by detonating a bomb in a crowded restaurant.
"This conspiracy was conceived, sponsored and directed from Iran," said Eric
Holder, the US attorney-general.

He added that the alleged plot was a "flagrant violation of international law".
Hillary Clinton, the Secretary of State, said it "crosses a line" in Iran's
sponsorship of terrorism.

Republican congressmen even described it as an "act of war" and urged Barack
Obama to retaliate.

Mahmoud Ahmadinejad, the Iranian president, promptly dismissed the allegations
as a "child's story" and a "complete fabrication".

Senior officials from a branch of Iran's Revolutionary Guard are said to have
directed Manssor Arbabsiar, of Texas, to hire Mexican gangsters to kill Adel
Al-Jubeir, the Saudi envoy.

Mr Arbabsiar, 56, who holds Iranian and US passports, is alleged to have been
paid $100,000 (£63,000) as a deposit for a $1.5million bounty for Mr Jubeir's
murder. The money is alleged to have then been transferred to a contact that Mr
Arbabsiar believed was a leading Mexican drug cartel chief, but was in fact a US
government informant.

Mr Arbabsiar was arrested in New York last month. He was charged with multiple
crimes, including conspiracy to murder a foreign official and conspiracy to use
a weapon of mass destruction. The criminal complaint alleges that in July, Mr
Arbabsiar told the informant that attacks must go ahead - said by officials to
have targeted the Saudi and Israeli missions - "despite mass casualties". He is
alleged to have added: "They want that guy [the Ambassador] done [killed]. If
the hundred go with him, ---- 'em."

Downing Street said that David Cameron would "support measures to hold Iran
accountable". The Saudi government thanked the US for preventing what it said
was a "despicable" plot.

Ted Poe, a Republican who sits on the House foreign affairs committee, called
for the US to "retaliate". He said: "To me it is an act of war that has been
foiled."

LOAD-DATE: October 12, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Manssor Arbabsiar is alleged to have said the planned attacks should go
ahead 'despite mass casualties'

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DTL


                  Copyright 2011 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              129 of 331 DOCUMENTS



                          The Daily Telegraph (London)

                           October 12, 2011 Wednesday
                                   Edition 1;
                                    Scotland

Iran accused of plotting terrorist attacks in US;
Iran 'planned to attack embassies in US'

BYLINE: Jon Swaine

SECTION: NEWS; FRONT PAGE; Pg. 1,2

LENGTH: 426 words


TENSIONS between the United States and Iran rose sharply last night after Tehran
was accused by the Obama administration of plotting a string of terrorist
attacks on American soil.

Iranian military commanders in Tehran were alleged to have ordered an
Iranian-American to blow up embassies in Washington and to assassinate the Saudi
Arabian ambassador.

"This conspiracy was conceived, sponsored and directed from Iran," said Eric
Holder, the US attorney-general. "The United States is committed to holding Iran
accountable."

Mr Holder said that the alleged plot was a "flagrant violation of international
law". Republican congressmen even described it as an "act of war" and urged
Barack Obama to retaliate.

Mahmoud Ahmadinejad, the Iranian president, promptly dismissed the allegations
as a "child's story" and a "complete fabrication".

Senior officials from a branch of Iran's Revolutionary Guard are said to have
directed Manssor Arbabsiar, of Texas, to hire Mexican gangsters to kill Adel
Al-Jubeir, the Saudi envoy.

Mr Arbabsiar, 56, who holds Iranian and US passports, is alleged to have been
paid $100,000 (£63,000) as a deposit for a $1.5million bounty for Mr Jubeir's
murder. The money is alleged to have then been transferred to a contact that Mr
Arbabsiar believed was a leading Mexican drug cartel chief, but was in fact a US
government informant.

Mr Arbabsiar was arrested in New York last month. He was charged with multiple
crimes, including conspiracy to murder a foreign official and conspiracy to use
a weapon of mass destruction.

Robert Mueller, the director of the FBI, said: "Though it reads like the pages
of a Hollywood script, the impact would have been very real".

Preet Bharara, the US attorney in Manhattan, where Mr Arbabsiar is being
prosecuted, said: "We will not let other countries use our soil as their
battleground."

The criminal complaint alleges that in July, Mr Arbabsiar told the informant
that attacks must go ahead - said by officials to have targeted the Saudi and
Israeli missions - "despite mass casualties". He is alleged to have added: "They
want that guy [the Ambassador] done [killed]. If the hundred go with him, ----
'em."

The alleged plot comes amid heightened tensions between Saudi Arabia and Iran.
Diplomatic cables released earlier this year by WikiLeaks disclosed that the
Saudis had urged the US to "cut off the head of the snake" by attacking Iran.

Ted Poe, a Republican who sits on the House foreign affairs committee, called
for the US to "retaliate". He said: "To me it is an act of war that has been
foiled."

LOAD-DATE: October 12, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DTLscot


                  Copyright 2011 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              130 of 331 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring South Asia - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                           October 13, 2011 Thursday

Pakistan police avert two terror attacks, arrest four militants

LENGTH: 557 words


Text of report by official news agency Associated Press of Pakistan (APP)

Islamabad, 13 October: Islamabad police have averted two terror attacks in the
city by timely making arrest of four terrorists and recovered huge cache of
weapons including Kalashnikovs, pistols, guns, telescopes, ammunition and also
two cars from their possession, a police spokesman said here on Thursday [13
October].

As per directions from Minister for Interior A. Rehman Malik, security was put
on high alert by IGP [Inspector-General of Police] Islamabad Bani Amin Khan in
city so that mischievous elements can not infiltrate into city and be arrested.

SSP [Senior Superintendent of Police] Islamabad Muhammad Yousuf Malik, SP
[Superintendent of Police] (Saddar) Sajid Kiyani and SP (Investigation) Ch.
Liaqat Ali constituted special teams for checking in the various points of the
city including inner and outer cordons.

Two various teams of Islamabad police nabbed four terrorists and recovered 8 SMG
guns, nine 12 bore repeater, seventeen 30 bore pistols, two machine gun pistols,
five telescopes, two telescopes push push 30 bore, 43 magazines and 16420 rounds
when they were trying to enter in the city.

According to details, a special team under supervision of SP (Saddar) Sajid
Kiyani and headed by ASP [Assistant Superintendent of Police] (Saddar) Dr Ghayas
Gul including SHO [Station House Officer] Golra police station Inspector Qasim
Khan Niazi, ASI Muhammad Waheed, Constable Ghulam Abbass was performing duty at
police picket near 'Sadat Colony' in Golra police station. The team stopped a
suspected car (STL-7755) coming from Peshawar for checking and recovered huge
quantity of weapons concealed in the hidden cavities of the car. Two occupants
of car were also arrested who have been identified as Muhammad Ibrahim s/o
Ghalib Jan resident of Takht Bhai district Mardan and Muhammad Ismail s/o Haji
Aziz resident of Hyat Abad Peshawar.

Getting another success, a police team of Crime Investigation Agency (CIA)
supervised by SP (Investigation) Ch. Liaqat Ali including its In-Charge Bashir
Ahmed Noon, Inspector Shaukat Hussain Thabal, ASI [Assistant Sub-Inspector of
Police] Khan Muhammad, Head Constable Iftikhar Ahmed, Constable Muhammad Hussain
was performing duty at Toll Plaza in Tarnol police station area. The team
stopped a Nissan Sunny car LHU-252 for checking and recovered huge quantity of
weapons and ammunition from it. Two persons riding on this car identified as
Shah Zen s/o Qalandar Khan, Rafique s/o Allah Din residents of Darra Adam Khel
Kohat have been also arrested.

The deadly weapons recovered from two cars include 8 SMG guns, nine 12 bore
repeater, seventeen 30 bore pistols, two machine gun pistols, five telescopes,
43 magazines and 16420 rounds.

Inspector-General of Police Bani Amin Khan and SSP Islamabad Muhammad Yousuf
Malik have appreciated the performance and announced cash prizes and
commendation certificates for the members of police teams who arrested these
terrorists. The IGP said that Islamabad police is very much vigilant force and
success against criminal elements is the evidence of its efficiency.

He said that every possible effort would be made to ensure protection to the
lives and property of the citizens.

Source: Associated Press of Pakistan news agency, Islamabad, in English 1213gmt
13 Oct 11

LOAD-DATE: October 13, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2011 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              131 of 331 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring Middle East - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                           October 13, 2011 Thursday

Syrian security officers recount attack by "terrorists" in Homs

LENGTH: 192 words


Text of report in English by state-run Syrian news agency SANA website

["Injured Law Enforcement Personnel Relate Details of Attacks by Armed Terrorist
Groups in Homs" - SANA Headline]

Homs (SANA) -A number of injured law enforcement personnel related details of
the attacks against them by armed terrorist groups in Homs Governorate.

Mohammad Sleiman, one of the injured men, told the Syrian TV that armed men
wearing military uniforms chased him and his colleagues while heading to work
west of al-Shammas area and opened fore on them. Sleiman said that the gunmen's
actions clearly showed them that weren't really army men, and that they were
accompanied by gunmen in civilian clothing.

Ismael Mohammad Mehdi al-Hussein, another injured man, said that he was wounded
when he and his colleagues were in Deir Baalba area and an armed group opened
fire on them. In turn, Khedr Daher said that he was on the Homs-Damascus
highway, heading to work along with a colleague when five armed men carrying
AK-47 rifles and other machine-guns intercepted them and opened fire, injuring
him in the abdomen.

Source: SANA news agency website, Damascus in English 13 Oct 11

LOAD-DATE: October 13, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2011 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              132 of 331 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring Middle East - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                           October 13, 2011 Thursday

Syrian reforms facing media attacks, "terrorist operations" - official

LENGTH: 340 words


Text of report in English by state-run Syrian news agency SANA website

["Shaban - Each Reform Step Was Faced by More Pressures, Media Attack, Terrorist
Operations" - SANA headline]

Kuala Lumpur, 11 Oct (SANA) - Presidential Political and Media Adviser Buthaynah
Sha'ban on Tuesday underlined that each reform step taken in Syria was faced by
more foreign pressures, media attacks and terrorist operations that target
senior figures of the Syrian people.

At a lecture in the Institute of Diplomacy and Foreign Relations of Malaysian
Ministry of Foreign Affairs, Dr Sha'ban reviewed the reality of what is taking
place in Syria and the nature of the conspiracy that is targeting the country in
addition to the reform measures and their impacts on the future of the country
in all domains. She reaffirmed that Syria will go ahead with the way of reform,
stemming from its sovereign decision and its people's needs away from foreign
dictations.

Dr Sha'ban clarified that the main goal of the USA and the foreign powers is not
carrying out reform rather they seek pretexts for spreading chaos to achieve
their benefits through controlling the region and its resources, pointing out
that the USA has used the veto more than fifty times at the Security Council
against the rights of the Palestinian people. She hailed the Russian and Chinese
stances at the Security Council that reject foreign interference in Syria's
internal affairs, based on fulfilling Syrian people's interests.

For his part, Director General of the Institute, Dato Ku Jaafar, underlined his
country's interest in restoring stability and security in Syria, the cradle of
civilizations. Russian Ambassador to Malaysia said in an interposition "the
reason that made Russia and China use the veto is to protect the Syrian people
and the basic principles of the International Law," underlining that using power
against countries is unacceptable at all because it would destabilize security
and stability of the whole world.

Source: SANA news agency website, Damascus in English 11 Oct 11

LOAD-DATE: October 13, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2011 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              133 of 331 DOCUMENTS


                             Cambridge Evening News

                           October 13, 2011 Thursday

Gang attack terror lands man in prison

BYLINE: Julian Makey

LENGTH: 396 words


A family was left in terror when a bungling gang smashed their way into the
wrong house in the early hours of the morning.

The gang burst in through a window after wrecking a car on the drive of the
house in Earith as they chased a debt, a court was told.

Other members stood outside throwing stones through the windows of the house
while a mum and her two young children hid in a bedroom.

Daniel Earl, 18, of Green End Road, Cambridge, was jailed for two years after he
admitted damaging property and burglary at the property in June. He asked for
separate offences of taking a van and burglary to be considered.

Huntingdon Crown Court heard that he still took a television set after the gang
realised the victim was not the man they were looking for.

Judge Nicholas Coleman told Earl: "You have to put yourself into the
householder's position to see how horrifying it must have been.

"It was utter madness on your part."

Edward Renvoize, prosecuting, said the householder had heard a loud bang at his
front door.

"He looked through the spyhole and saw a man looking back at him, banging his
head on the door," he said.

Mr Renvoize said the man saw three people on the drive smashing up the car
there.

He said: "At that stage the terrified man shouted 'What are you doing? I have
got kids in here'."

Mr Renvoize told the court that the living room window was smashed and men, one
carrying a cosh, climbed in.

He said: "One of the males said 'It's not him' and at that stage the men left,
although the television was taken."

Mr Renvoize said "substantial damage" was caused to the property by other men
throwing bricks and stones through the windows.

He said the householder's ex-wife and two young children hid in a bedroom and
were "frankly terrified".

Blood and fingerprints found on the living room window came from Earl who
declined to name any of the other men.

Michael Procter, for Earl, said he had taken the television on the spur of the
moment.

He said: "He was very drunk and was with a number of other individuals in a
vehicle and they went to an address where there was a debt.

"It turned out the person who was targeted was not the right person."

He said Earl had not intended to take part and had nothing to do with the debt.

Mr Procter said Earl, who had a troubled upbringing and had spent four and a
half months in custody, was content to be behind bars because he felt safe
there.

LOAD-DATE: October 13, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: CambridgeNews


                    Copyright 2011 Iliffe News and Media Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                              134 of 331 DOCUMENTS


                            Manchester Evening News

                           October 13, 2011 Thursday

It was so dark that petrified victim could not tell if attacker was black or
white ; Park rape terror ; Park rape terror ; It was so dark that petrified
victim could not tell if attacker was black or white

BYLINE: Neal Keeling

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 675 words


Neal Keeling

DNA evidence is being fast-tracked by police after a woman was raped in a park.

The man pounced from behind and then dragged his victim by the hair into bushes
and raped her.

He struck between 4am and 5am in Plant Hill Park, Blackley, as the woman took a
short cut.

Police have launched a manhunt for the attacker. DNA of the suspect has been
recovered from the victim's clothes and is being treated as a priority by
forensic analysts.

Detective Inspector Andrew Naismith, said: The woman had been out for the
evening and was coming home from a party.

It was very dark and she was terrified, so has been unable to say whether the
man was black or white.

The victim's partner raised the alarm. She has been able to tell police that her
attacker was 6ft to 6ft 4, of slim to medium build, unshaven, or possibly with a
beard.

He was wearing a grey hooded jacket with draw strings and dark-coloured
trousers.

The attack was on October 2.

Det Insp Naismith said: Understandably, this woman is extremely distraught after
her ordeal and specially-trained officers are currently supporting her through
what is a very difficult time. I want to stress to residents in our community
who may be concerned, that this is being treated as an isolated incident. It
will clearly be of concern to people and it is right that we should alert them
to what has happened.

However I do not want people to be unduly alarmed because we have no other
reports of this type of crime.

What is important given the seriousness of this crime is that people are
vigilant, particularly women. I would urge people to stick together in groups
where possible, avoid short cuts and keep to well-lit areas.

I would also appeal to anyone who may have information about this rape to come
forward. Perhaps you recognise the description or saw this man hanging about the
area. If you did we need to speak to you.

Anyone with information should call north Manchester CID on 0161 856 3536 or the
independent charity Crimestoppers, anonymously, on 0800 555 111.   Neal Keeling
DNA evidence is being fast-tracked by police after a woman was raped in a park.
The man pounced from behind and then dragged his victim by the hair into bushes
and raped her. He struck between 4am and 5am in Plant Hill Park, Blackley, as
the woman took a short cut. Police have launched a manhunt for the attacker. DNA
of the suspect has been recovered from the victim's clothes and is being treated
as a priority by forensic analysts. Detective Inspector Andrew Naismith, said:
The woman had been out for the evening and was coming home from a party. It was
very dark and she was terrified, so has been unable to say whether the man was
black or white. The victim's partner raised the alarm. She has been able to tell
police that her attacker was 6ft to 6ft 4, of slim to medium build, unshaven, or
possibly with a beard. He was wearing a grey hooded jacket with draw strings and
dark-coloured trousers. The attack was on October 2. Det Insp Naismith said:
Understandably, this woman is extremely distraught after her ordeal and
specially-trained officers are currently supporting her through what is a very
difficult time. I want to stress to residents in our community who may be
concerned, that this is being treated as an isolated incident. It will clearly
be of concern to people and it is right that we should alert them to what has
happened. However I do not want people to be unduly alarmed because we have no
other reports of this type of crime. What is important given the seriousness of
this crime is that people are vigilant, particularly women. I would urge people
to stick together in groups where possible, avoid short cuts and keep to
well-lit areas. I would also appeal to anyone who may have information about
this rape to come forward. Perhaps you recognise the description or saw this man
hanging about the area. If you did we need to speak to you. Anyone with
information should call north Manchester CID on 0161 856 3536 or the independent
charity Crimestoppers, anonymously, on 0800 555 111.

LOAD-DATE: October 16, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2011 Manchester Evening News
                              All Rights Reserved

                              135 of 331 DOCUMENTS


                      Western Morning News (Plymouth, UK)

                           October 13, 2011 Thursday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

So nearly a victim of 9/11 terror attacks;
Letters

SECTION: LETTERS; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 202 words


With the 10th year of the 9/11 catastrophe recently having been marked, I have
been reflecting on how fortunate I am to still have a stepson.

On returning home from a shopping expedition on that terrible day, we found
Malcolm's son - a captain with American Airways - had left a phone message: It
said "Switch on the TV, Dad - not to worry, I'm okay".

At that moment, on our TV screen, we saw a plane ploughing through the World
Trade Centre in New York.

It turned out that Malcolm's son, Howard, had been allocated that flight, but
was on a three-day rest period at the time.

The other airline captains, who were killed, were his friends. He flew for about
two more years but unfortunately the trauma affected his sleeping programme, and
he was put on medication.

He bought a Tiger Moth to keep himself "in the air" but even that eventually had
to be packed up and sold to a German. Before the Tiger was sold Howard thought
it would be a wonderful gesture for his father, then aged 75, to go over to the
USA and fly it - Malcolm was in Transport Command with the RAF for 24 years, and
started his first flight in a Tiger Moth in 1946 in Rhodesia.

Sadly Malcolm, my husband, died just four months ago.

Netta Hollins Helston

LOAD-DATE: October 13, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: WMN


                 Copyright 2011 Western Morning News (Plymouth)
                              All Rights Reserved

                              136 of 331 DOCUMENTS


                       BBC Monitoring Europe - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                            October 14, 2011 Friday

One policeman killed, three wounded in terror attack in southern Turkey - agency

LENGTH: 119 words


Text of report in English by Turkish semi-official news agency Anatolia

["Turkey-Security -Terrorists kill one police officer in Iskenderun town" - AA
headline]

ISKENDERUN (A.A) -One police officer was killed and three others wounded when
terrorists opened fire on a police station in Iskenderun town of southern
province of Hatay on Thursday.

Hatay Governor Celalettin Lekesiz told reporters that they believed the attack
was staged by terrorists.

"We have lost a police officer and three of our officers were wounded in the
attack. A terrorist was killed in the clash. We are trying to find the vehicle
with which the assailants escaped," Lekesiz said.

Source: Anatolia news agency, Ankara, in English 1638 gmt 13 Oct 11

LOAD-DATE: October 14, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2011 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              137 of 331 DOCUMENTS


                       BBC Monitoring Europe - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                            October 14, 2011 Friday

Germany: train track attacks trigger debate over "leftist terrorism"

LENGTH: 857 words


Text of report in English by independent German Spiegel Online website on 13
October

[Report by Florian Gathmann: "Train track attacks: debate over 'leftist
terrorism' erupts in Germany"]

So far, authorities have found at least 17 incendiary devices near German rail
facilities in and around Berlin this week [10-14 October]. Many are concerned
that the country is seeing the beginnings of a wave of leftist terror. But
others, including left-wing extremists themselves, aren't so sure.

A conversation with Rainer Wendt these days is enough to make anybody nervous.
Wendt is the head of the German Police Union, one of two police unions in the
country. And he says that the recent series of attacks on German rail facilities
in and near Berlin this week has convinced him that Germany is seeing the
beginnings of a new wave of left-wing extremist violence.

He speaks of a "renaissance of the Red Army Faction [RAF]," the terror group
which perpetrated dozens of killings in Germany over three decades starting in
the early 1970s. We are witnessing the "beginnings of leftist terrorism," he
says.

He isn't alone in his assessment. Hans-Werner Wargel, head of the office for the
protection of the constitution in Lower Saxony, spoke of "parallels to the
'Revolutionary Cells' which were active into the 1990s" in comments to the daily
Neue Osnabrucker Zeitung . The group he mentioned was responsible for several
arson attacks over the course of two decades and was listed as a terror group by
the Federal Office for the Protection of the Constitution.

Transport Minister Peter Ramsauer has also spoken of "criminal terrorist
attacks" with Interior Minister Hans-Peter Friedrich expressing concern over
"increasing left-wing extremism."

The hyperbole is understandable. Since Monday, police and train officials have
discovered 17 incendiary devices planted next to train tracks and near
signalling equipment in Berlin and in the surrounding area. Two of them have
gone off. Though no injuries have yet been reported, the discoveries have
resulted in significant train delays and several cancellations.

Never a Danger

A group calling itself Hekla released an online statement earlier this week
claiming responsibility for the firebombs and condemning Germany's involvement
in Afghanistan. It also demanded the release of the US soldier Bradley Manning,
who stands accused of leaking US diplomatic dispatches and other sensitive
documents to the whistle-blowing platform WikiLeaks.

Now, in response to the increasing terror accusations, the group has released a
second statement, denying that it is involved in terrorism. The incendiary
devices never posed a danger to people, says the statement, posted on a leftist
website on Thursday. The aim was merely to "disrupt the signal and data
communication."

Exactly who might be behind the attacks remains a mystery. Partly as a result of
the initial statement claiming responsibility, investigators are assuming
political motivations. Federal prosecutors have now become involved in the
investigation and are looking into "unconstitutional sabotage." German rail
provider Deutsche Bahn, which said this week that passengers were never in
danger, has also promised a reward of 100,000 euros for information leading to
an arrest.

Still, despite the rising concern in the German capital, many have urged
restraint. Wolfgang Bosbach, a domestic policy expert with Chancellor Angela
Merkel's Christian Democrats and a member of German parliament, told Spiegel
Online that it "clearly is more than just a prank, it shows a lot of criminal
energy". But he is not ready to equate it with left-wing terrorism. "We should
be careful of understating things," he said, "but nor should we overstate them."

Konstantin von Notz, a parliamentarian with the Green Party, has also argued for
reserve. "I would warn against upgrading the deed by way of an overly shrill
debate," he said. "A quick and successful investigation should be in the
foreground - and not a debate over alleged new left-wing terrorism or even a new
RAF before we know more about the perpetrators and their background."

Vehement Condemnation from the Left

Dieter Wiefelsputz from the centre-left Social Democrats said that, while it is
true that some left-wing terrorists began their careers as arsonists, "not every
arsonist is destined to become a terrorist."

German law would tend to agree. According to a federal court ruling in November
2007, politically motivated arson can only be considered terrorism if it poses
considerable danger to the state. The ruling concerned a leftist organization
called the "militant group," which since then has been designated merely a
criminal group by officials. Prosecuting groups under German terror laws is not
a straightforward proposition.

The left-wing extremist scene in Germany is not impressed with the attacks. Many
have ridiculed the perpetrators for being amateurs or have vehemently condemned
the operation.

"Your 'campaign,'" reads one representative comment in a left-wing forum, "is
about the stupidest thing that I have seen in recent years."

Source: Spiegel Online website, Hamburg, in English 13 Oct 11

LOAD-DATE: October 14, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2011 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              138 of 331 DOCUMENTS


                 BBC Monitoring Former Soviet Union - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                            October 14, 2011 Friday

Terrorist attack averted, militant killed in Russia's North Caucasus

LENGTH: 757 words


A major terrorist attack has been averted, one militant has been killed and two
militants have been blockaded in a private house during separate incidents in
Russia's North Caucasus on 14 October.

Kabarda-Balkaria

An improvised explosive device (IED) containing shrapnel has been neutralized in
Nalchik by a monument to Kabarda-Balkaria's first President Valeriy Kokov, the
National Antiterrorism Committee (NAC) told corporate-owned Interfax news agency
on 14 October.

"The IED was camouflaged in a flowerbed with flowers and was remote controlled;
it could be set off at any moment," the NAC said, adding that the force of the
bomb was equivalent to 3 kg of TNT. The device was defused at the scene.

According to operational information, the criminals were intending to detonate
the bomb on 18 October - during mass events devoted to the 70th anniversary of
the birth of the first president of Kabarda-Balkaria.

"The operational headquarters of the NAC in Kabarda-Balkaria expressed gratitude
to citizens whose vigilance helped to avert the terrorist act being prepared,
and to avert the threat to the lives and health of many civilians," the NAC
said.

"This incident once again clearly demonstrates the cynicism and unscrupulousness
of the criminals, who with their base bandit actions are trying to destabilize
the situation in the region, intimidate residents and to prevent the
strengthening of legality and law and order in every possible way," the NAC
said.

Ingushetia

A suspected militant was killed when an improvised explosive device detonated
near the village of Achaluki in Ingushetia, a source in the republic's
law-enforcement agencies told Interfax-South on the same day.

According to the source, the incident occurred at 1100 Moscow time on 14 October
(0700 gmt) in woodland when the militant was trying to hide a cache of arms and
ammunition in a plastic barrel.

"For unknown reasons, the explosive device which local resident Bilan Sheykhov
was trying to hide went off in his hands. As a result of the explosion, he died
at the scene," the source said, adding that Sheykhov had been listed as missing
since 3 October.

According to operational information, he was a member of a bandit group led by
Ruslan Tsurov, who was killed in Nazran at the start of October.

Dagestan

Two militants have been blockaded in a private house in the village of Novyy in
Makhachkala, where a counterterrorism operation regime (CTO) was introduced on
the evening of 14 October, a source in the Dagestani law-enforcement agencies
told Interfax on the same day.

"According to preliminary information, there are two militants; negotiations
about surrender are being conducted with them which relatives of the suspects
have been involved in. A woman with two children lived in the house; the
militants released them," the source said.

The press service of the Russian Federal Security Service (FSB) directorate for
Dagestan reported earlier that a CTO regime had been introduced in the village
of Separatornyy in Makhachkala.

"According to a decision by the operational headquarters for the Republic of
Dagestan, a CTO regime has been introduced on several streets adjacent to
Prospekt Akushinskogo [Akushinskiy Avenue] in connection with special measures
being conducted," a spokesperson for the FSB directorate press service said.

An attack has been carried out on a department head at Khasavyurt's central
hospital, a source in the law-enforcement agencies told Interfax.

"Two unidentified people fired several shots from pistols at the head of
department at the central city hospital who was in the yard of his own home and
then fled," the source said. The doctor was wounded and hospitalized.

"Employees of the operational investigations group found and seized two bullets
and 10 nine-mm cartridge cases at the scene," the source said.

Karachay-Cherkessia

The deputy head of a town police force in Karachay-Cherkessia has been put on
the wanted list for the savage murder of a local resident, the Investigations
Committee told Interfax on the same day.

"On 7 October, a deputy police chief for operational work for the town of
Cherkessk gave illegal instructions to bring detainees to his office and beat
one of them, causing at least 18 fractures of 10 ribs, a head injury and
injuries to limbs," the Investigations Committee said, noting that the man died
from his injuries before the doctors arrived.

"The policeman fled and has been put on the wanted list," it said.

Sources: Interfax news agency, Moscow, in Russian 0545, 1253, 1305, 1327 and
1634 gmt 14 Oct 11

LOAD-DATE: October 14, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2011 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              139 of 331 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring Middle East - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                           October 15, 2011 Saturday

Syrian soldier killed "in terrorist attack"

LENGTH: 432 words


Text of report in English by state-run Syrian news agency SANA website

An army member was martyred on Friday in a terrorist attack carried out by an
armed group on an army checkpoint in Enkhel town in Daraa province.

An informed source in Daraa told SANA correspondent that members of an armed
group threw two grenades at an army checkpoint, one of which exploded, killing
an army member.

The checkpoint members repelled the attack and killed two of the terrorists.

A number of citizens were injured when an explosive device blew up near the road
reaching between Abu Bakr Mosque and al-Omari Mosque in the city of Dar'a,
planted by armed terrorist groups.

SANA correspondent reported that the device was planted 200 meters to the south
of al-Omari Mosque, and that another explosive device was also planted 50 meters
away, which was dismantled by a military engineering unit.

The correspondent said that the place where the two explosive devices were
planted usually gets crowded with people before and after the Friday prayers.

Earlier, the inhabitants of Da'il city in Dar'a province dismissed in statements
to SANA correspondent as "untrue and fabricated news" what al-Jazeera channel
reported that deaths are taking place among the city's citizens at the hands of
the army personnel.

The inhabitants expressed concern and fear that this news may be a way of giving
an order for an operation by al-Jazeera to its armed agents on the ground as it
has already done this several times before in different areas in the Syrian
cities.

They said that the objective of such news is to spread anxiety and chaos among
people.

Director of Awqaf (Religious Endowment) Department in Hama province,
Abd-al-Basit Sulayman, categorically dismissed the false news broadcast by
al-Arabiya channel on firing on prayers in some of the province's mosques to
allegedly prevent them from performing the Friday Prayers and gather outside the
mosques.

Sulayman confirmed that the life in the city of Hama is quite normal and the
citizens performed the Friday Prayers calmly, considering such news as part of
the instigation campaign aimed at creating chaos and instability in Syria.

SANA correspondent in al-Qadam neighbourhood in Damascus reported the owners of
shops as decisively denying al-Arabiya news on protests in the neighbourhood and
that protesters are being fired on, stressing the news is "completely false and
untrue".

Gatherings were reported in separate areas in Idleb countryside following the
Friday Prayers, which dispersed after a short while.

Source: SANA news agency website, Damascus in English 15 Oct 11

LOAD-DATE: October 15, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2011 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              140 of 331 DOCUMENTS



                                 thetimes.co.uk

                     October 15, 2011 Saturday 12:01 AM GMT

'No mercy' mission of anti-terror chief after fifth attack on his life

BYLINE: Robin Pagnamenta, Karachi

SECTION: ASIA

LENGTH: 434 words


"Everyone has to die some day," growls Chaudhry Aslam as he taps his cigarette,
leans back in his chair and exhales a plume of white smoke into the warm night
air. "This is not just a job but a mission, even if it comes at the cost of my
personal life and family. There is no turning back."

Here in Karachi, one of the world's most violent cities, he has probably the
most dangerous job of all. As chief of counter-terrorism in a city seething with
Islamic extremism and sectarian feuds, he recently survived a fifth
assassination attempt - a suicide bomb attack on his house that killed eight
people, including six of his bodyguards. However, Superintendent Aslam, 49, is
not intimidated, even by the 300kg high-explosive device packed inside a
minibus. The blast left a 6ft-deep crater outside his home.

After crawling from the wreckage and checking that his wife and four children
were safe, he told a TV crew covering the aftermath that he would bury those
responsible "right here", then headed for his office. "I will carry on with my
jihad until the day of judgment," he said. Dressed in a crisp white shalwar
kameez and shielded in a police safe house surrounded by thick steel barricades,
concrete and razor wire, he explained why he keeps working in the face of
repeated violence.

"These people are not worthy of the name Muslims," he said of the
Tehreek-e-Taleban Pakistan, which he holds responsible for bombing his house, as
well as an attack 11 months ago that levelled the Karachi CID headquarters,
killed 17 people and injured 100.

"Even war has principles . . . It's my job to go after these people. I have
strong nerves and I understand the risks," he said.

He inhabits a world of informants and double-dealing. Our meeting came after a
bewildering drive through the megalopolis of 18 million people, to a mystery
location.

But even such security has failed to stop his Taleban and al-Qaeda enemies.

"It was 7.25am and my kids were getting ready for school," he recalls of the
latest attempt. "There was a huge explosion and the whole house shook. The
window panes blew out. Outside, there were dead bodies everywhere, including a
mother and child who were innocent passers-by."

Mr Aslam has personally shot dead many of Karachi's most-wanted men, and critics
accuse him of dispensing justice on his own terms. "I deny that completely," he
says. Nevertheless, he acknowledges that his methods in a city where last year
1,247 people died in shootings and bomb attacks, and 104 were kidnapped, are
often uncompromising. "I will avenge them so hard that future generations will
fear me," he said.

LOAD-DATE: October 18, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication


                     Copyright 2011 News International Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                              141 of 331 DOCUMENTS



                           The Sunday Times (London)

                            October 16, 2011 Sunday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

US bomb plot leader killed troops in Iraq;
The plan to assassinate a Saudi ambassador was set up by an Iranian commander
with a history of terrorist attacks, writes Christina Lamb in Washington

BYLINE: Christina Lamb

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 35

LENGTH: 1294 words


TO HIS neighbours in Round Rock, Texas, Mansour Arbabsiar was a shambling
figure, always losing his keys and wearing odd socks. His second-hand car
business had gone bust. When he chattered on his mobile phone in a foreign
language, they assumed he was dreaming up yet another doomed enterprise.

They were right, but what they could never have imagined was that on the other
end of the line was his cousin, Abdul Reza Shahlai, a senior commander in Iran's
Quds Force, the external arm of the Iranian Revolutionary Guards.

The "Chevrolet" they were discussing was not a used car but the codeword for a
plot to kill Adel al-Jubeir, the Saudi ambassador to the United States, by
blowing up Cafe Milano, his favourite Washington restaurant.

Yesterday it emerged that Shahlai, the cousin, had previously been linked to the
killing of American troops in Iraq.

According to one report, he guided an elite group of gunmen from the militia of
the radical Shi'ite cleric Moqtada al-Sadr, who dressed up as American and Iraqi
soldiers and stormed a provincial government building in Karbala on January 20,
2007. Five Americans died in the raid.

The US military later obtained a 22-page manual that detailed preparations for
the attack and showed that it was planned by the Quds Force. US Treasury
officials said that Shahlai was behind the attack.

An American official told The Washington Post that the Quds Force had in the
past "reached out to groups that might seem unlikely partners".

He added: "The US government has known for quite some time that the Quds Force
was involved in this type of external plotting, and has known that Shahlai has
been behind much of it. That he is still at it is no surprise."

Earlier this year Arbabsiar, 56, escaping two failed marriages and a string of
failed businesses, returned to Iran to live. There he made contact with his
cousin and the plot seems to have been hatched.

Apparently overestimating the clout of a Texas used-car salesman, Shahlai became
convinced he had found a proxy for a strike at two of Iran's enemies - America
and Saudi Arabia. According to the Post, US officials believe he hoped that
Arbabsiar could make contact with ruthless Mexican drug traffickers with the
means to kidnap Jubeir. As the plot evolved they decided to blow up the
ambassador instead.

When Arbabsiar returned to Texas, he boasted to friends he would "soon be in the
money".

Shahlai's importance in Iran's military hierarchy began to ring alarm bells in
Washington. By late May the plot was being closely monitored by the FBI. It
began to unravel almost from the start, when Arbabsiar tried to hire a hit man
from a Mexican drug cartel known as Los Zetas.

He asked a woman friend whether she had any contacts who "knew explosives"; she
recommended her nephew in Mexico. The nephew was in fact an undercover agent for
the US Drug Enforcement Administration. The bank account into which he requested
his $1.5m (£950,000) fee be paid was FBI-controlled.

Initially many officials were sceptical. But one after another, some of
America's most senior officials - the head of the FBI, the secretary of state,
the attorney-general, the Treasury secretary and President Barack Obama himself
- have all gone on record over the past few days to stress their conviction that
the plot was deadly serious.

"We would not be bringing forward a case unless we knew exactly how to support
all the allegations that are contained in the indictment," Obama said last
Thursday. Almost certainly, it was Shahlai's involvement that made the
administration so confident.

In Mexico on May 24 Arbabsiar met the supposed assassin. Anxious to prove that
his mission was serious, he described his cousin in Iran as someone who was
"wanted in America" and had been on CNN.

"He's got the government behind him," Arbabsiar said, according to court papers.
"He's not paying from his pocket."

In August the FBI received its strongest evidence that the Quds Force was behind
the plan, when Arbabsiar was sent wire transfers of almost $100,000 as a down
payment for the Mexican bomber.

While the details are still classified, one official said the wire transfers
apparently had "some kind of hallmark" indicating they were approved by
Major-General Qasem Soleimani, head of the Quds Force. The transfers, each of
$49,960, appear particularly inept, as it is well known that the US Treasury
monitors all cash movements above $10,000.

Iran has a long record of assassinations overseas, and as recently as May was
behind the killing of a Saudi diplomat in Karachi, according to Pakistani
officials. It generally uses its own agents or closely associated militant
groups.

Isolated diplomatically and politically, Iran is feeling the pressure from
western intelligence services, said Michael Adler, a scholar at the Wilson
Center, a think tank in Washington.

It blames Israel and the US for the Stuxnet computer virus, which partially
crippled its nuclear centrifuges, and for a series of assassinations of its
nuclear scientists.

"Iran may well argue, if you think you can carry out attacks on our territory,
we can do the same on yours," Adler said.

As for the argument that a sophisticated organisation such as the Quds Force
would never have entered into such a harebrained scheme, he retorted that "many
intelligence operations look amateurish when exposed to the light of day - think
of the CIA trying to kill Castro with exploding cigars".

"Trying to figure out Iran is like three-dimensional chess meets Twister," said
Juan Zarate, a former US official who was one of the initiators of financial
sanctions against the regime.

One ambassador in Washington who was fully briefed on the plot by its intended
target, Jubeir, said that "it's clearly not a fabrication, but it's unclear how
high up it went". US authorities have been careful to describe the plot as
"directed by elements of the Iranian government".

On Tuesday the Treasury department designated Soleimani, the Quds Force
commander, a global terrorist because of his role in the plot.

Iran's supreme leader, Ayatollah Khamenei, yesterday denounced what he called
the "meaningless and nonsensical accusation ... raised against a few Iranians in
America". He described it as "an excuse to present the Islamic republic as a
supporter of terrorism," adding "it won't work".

Experts said that rather than being an attack on the US, the plan might be part
of an ongoing proxy war by Tehran with its great rival Saudi Arabia for
influence in the Middle East amid the turmoil caused by the Arab spring.

Whatever the motivation, what is undisputed is that the "Iranian Mr Bean" has
played right into the hands of a US administration increasingly concerned by
Tehran's efforts to build a nuclear bomb and now redoubling its efforts to
secure tighter international sanctions.

Arbabsiar was arrested in New York on September 29. He was said to be planning
an early return to Iran. US prosecutors had clearly decided that they had more
than enough evidence to prove their case.

In the dossier of evidence presented to foreign diplomats were transcripts of
phone conversations between Arbabsiar and Ali Gholam Shakuri, Shahlai's
assistant. The two were discussing buying the Chevrolet - codeword for the
assassination. "So buy it, buy it," said Shakuri.

"Buy it? Okay," Arbabsiar said.

"Buy it, yes. Buy all of it," said Shakuri.

Awlaki Jr

Two weeks after Anwar al-Awlaki, the American-born Al-Qaeda cleric, was killed
by a US drone in Yemen, his eldest son has died in a similar airstrike, writes
Sara Hashash.

Abdulrahman Awlaki, 21, was among 24 people reported to have been killed in five
strikes launched in the south of the country on Friday night. Ibrahim al-Banna,
the Egyptian media chief of Al-Qaeda in the Arabian Peninsula, was also among
those who died.

LOAD-DATE: October 16, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: STS


                    Copyright 2011 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              142 of 331 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring South Asia - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                            October 17, 2011 Monday

Pakistan provincial minister says US drone attacks increasing terrorism

LENGTH: 275 words


Text of report headlined "Drone attacks benefitting terrorists: Iftikhar"
published by Pakistani newspaper The News website on 16 October

Peshawar: Khyber-Pakhtunkhwa Minister for Information Iftikhar Hussein has said
the drone attacks were highly condemnable as it was direct interference in the
affairs of a sovereign state.

He added that due to drone attacks, terrorism and militancy was increasing
instead of decreasing and the terrorists were also getting sympathies of the
common man.

Iftikhar was addressing the inaugural ceremony of a painting exhibition at the
Agriculture University here on Saturday [15 October].

The minister stressed the need for holding maximum positive activities involving
maximum number youth in the present tense situation.

Appreciating the efforts of the artist whose paintings and sketches were on
display, he said he was happy that the artist had a positive mentality as he did
not highlighted bomb blasts or other negative activities in his work.

He clarified that the only way for lasting peace in the region was
confidence-building and intelligence-sharing among the United States, Pakistan
and Afghanistan.

Regarding two weekly holidays, the minister said Khyber Pakhtunkhwa government
had proposed one holiday a week. He, however, added that the decision of the
Council of Common Interests (CCI) in that regard would be honoured. The
provincial cabinet in its upcoming meeting would also consider the matter.

To another question regarding record increase in the power tariff, Iftikhar said
it was the result of agreements signed by the past governments.

Source: The News website, Islamabad, in English 16 Oct 11

LOAD-DATE: October 17, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2011 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              143 of 331 DOCUMENTS



                          The Daily Telegraph (London)

                            October 17, 2011 Monday
                                   Edition 2;
                                National Edition

Eta to announce permanent end to its decades of terrorist attacks

BYLINE: Fiona Govan

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 360 words


THE Basque separatist group Eta is ready to announce a definitive end to the
armed struggle that has claimed more than 800 lives over five decades.

The terrorist group is expected to release a statement this week in which it
will move on from the "permanent cease-fire" in place since January with a
pledge to disarm.

The expectation comes as senior statesmen, among them Kofi Annan, the former
secretary-general of the United Nations, and Gerry Adams, president of Sinn
Fein, attend a conference to discuss a peaceful resolution to the Basque
conflict.

Sources close to the negotiations have told Spanish media that the group is
ready to make an announcement following recent calls from hundreds of Eta
prisoners, currently serving in jails across Spain, to end violence.

The move would be a significant step towards the disbanding of the group, which
formed during Francisco Franco's dictatorship to fight for an independent Basque
homeland encompassing parts of north-eastern Spain and south-western France.

The conference, which begins in the Basque city of San Sebastian today, comes
just weeks before general elections in which the conservative opposition Popular
Party is expected to win a resounding victory.

The Socialist government of Prime Minister Jose Luis Rodriquez Zapatero embarked
on a peace process with Eta following a declaration of a so-called permanent
ceasefire in March 2006.

But talks were immediately called off when the truce was broken with a massive
car bomb attack at Madrid's international airport the following December in
which two men were killed and hundreds injured.

Since then the government has vowed not to enter into meaningful dialogue unless
any ceasefire was accompanied by a surrender of weapons.

Eta has been severely weakened by successful co-operation between French and
Spanish authorities over the past few years that has led to the arrests of its
leading members.

There has been no attack on Spanish soil since August 2009.

In May, Bildu, a political group widely considered to be the successor to Eta's
banned political wing Batasuna, won a legal battle to field candidates in
municipal elections across the Basque region.

LOAD-DATE: October 17, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DTL


                  Copyright 2011 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              144 of 331 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                      October 17, 2011 Monday 5:08 PM GMT

Iran accused of plotting terrorist attacks in US

BYLINE: By Jon Swaine in Washington

LENGTH: 617 words


TENSIONS between the United States and Iran rose sharply last Tuesday after
officials were accused by the Obama administration of plotting a string of
terrorist attacks on American soil.

Iranian military commanders in Tehran were alleged to have ordered an
Iranian-American to blow up embassies in Washington and to assassinate the Saudi
Arabian ambassador, potentially by detonating a bomb in a crowded restaurant.
"This conspiracy was conceived, sponsored and directed from Iran," said Eric
Holder, the US attorney-general.

He added that the alleged plot was a "flagrant violation of international law".
Hillary Clinton, the Secretary of State, said it "crosses a line" in Iran's
sponsorship of terrorism. Republican congressmen even described it as an "act of
war" and urged Barack Obama to retaliate.

Mahmoud Ahmadinejad, Iran's president, promptly dismissed the allegations as a
"child's story" and a "complete fabrication".

Senior officials from a branch of Iran's Revolutionary Guard are said to have
directed Manssor Arbabsiar, of Texas, to hire Mexican gangsters to kill Adel
Al-Jubeir, the Saudi envoy.

Mr Arbabsiar, 56, who holds Iranian and US passports, is alleged to have been
paid $100,000 (£63,000) from Iran as a deposit for a $1.5 million (£960,000)
bounty for Mr Al-Jubeir's murder. The money isthen said to have been transferred
to a contact Mr Arbabsiar thought was a leading Mexican drug-cartel chief, but
was in fact a US government informant.

Mr Arbabsiar was arrested in New York last month. He was charged with multiple
crimes, including conspiracy to murder a foreign official and conspiracy to use
a weapon of mass destruction.

Robert Mueller, the director of the FBI, said: "Though it reads like the pages
of a Hollywood script, the impact would have been very real".

Preet Bharara, the US attorney in Manhattan, where Mr Arbabsiar is being
prosecuted, said: "We will not let other countries use our soil as their
battleground."

Last Wednesday the US government took the unusual step of contacting Iranian
officials about the plot. State Department officials made the announcement as
Washington embarked on a diplomatic offensive to convince allies the lot was
genuine, given its bizarre and amateurish nature.

Victoria Nuland, the State Department spokesman, said: "We are not prepared at
the moment to go any further on the question of who spoke to whom, and where,
but just to confirm that we have had direct contact with Iran."

President Barack Obama said that "individuals in the Iranian government" were
aware of the conspiracy and that Tehran should be held accountable, and that
"dangerous and reckless behaviour by the Iranian government" would compound its
isolation. He promised the "toughest sanctions" in response.

"What we can say is there are individuals in the Iranian government who were
aware of this plan and, had it not been for outstanding intelligence work, this
plot could have gone forward and resulted not only in the death of the Saudi
ambassador but innocent civilians here in the States," Mr Obama said.

"We believe that, even if at the highest levels there was not detailed
operational knowledge, there has to be accountability."

The criminal complaint alleges that in July, Mr Arbabsiar told the informant
attacks must go ahead - said to target Saudi and Israeli missions - "despite
mass casualties". He is alleged to have added: "They want that guy [the
ambassador] done [killed]. If the hundred go with him, ---- 'em."

The alleged plot comes amid heightened tensions between Saudi Arabia and Iran.
Diplomatic cables released earlier this year by WikiLeaks disclosed that the
Saudis had urged the US to "cut off the head of the snake" by attacking Iran.

LOAD-DATE: December 21, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTNS


                  Copyright 2011 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              145 of 331 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                     October 18, 2011 Tuesday 12:44 AM GMT

Al-Shabaab warns Kenya of reprisals if Somalia deployment continues;
Kenya will become the target of fresh terror attacks unless it pulls its troops
out of Somalia, Islamist insurgents warned on Monday.

BYLINE: By Mike Pflanz Nairobi

LENGTH: 495 words


Large numbers of Kenyan forces have pushed deep inside Somalia to hunt down
al-Shabaab cells said to be behind a series of kidnappings of Westerners in the
last month.

Sheikh Ali Mohamud Rage, al-Shabaab's spokesman, warned that his fighters would
retaliate against the military mission by hitting targets inside Kenya.

"We say to Kenya: Did you consider the consequences of the invasion? We know
fighting more than you and defeated other invaders before," Sheikh Rage told
reporters in a town south of Mogadishu.

"Your attack to us means your skyscrapers will be destroyed, your tourism will
disappear. We shall inflict on you the same damage you inflicted on us. You have
to see what happened to the other aggressors, like (Uganda President Yoweri)
Museveni and his country when they invaded us. We hit them in their country."

He was referring to twin suicide bomb attacks on football fans watching the
World Cup final in pubs in the Ugandan capital last June, which killed 76
people.

Witnesses reported seeing dozens of trucks and "hundreds" of heavily-armed
Kenyan soldiers digging into new trenches close to the Somali town of Qoqani, an
al-Shabaab stronghold.

In response, Islamist fighters were on Monday reportedly moving towards the same
area, apparently in readiness for battle.

"I saw around 50 trucks and pickup trucks mounted with machine guns, with
hundreds of fighters heading towards the Kenyan border," Abdi Jumale, a resident
in Kismayo, a port city held by the Islamists, told the French news agency AFP.

"Kenya violated the territorial rights of Somalia by entering our holy land, but
I assure you that they will return disappointed, God willing," Sheikh Hassan
Turki, a senior Islamist leader, said late on Sunday.

"Mujahideen fighters will force them to test the pain of the bullets." Aerial
bombings believed to have been carried out by Kenyan air force jets targeted two
villages inside Somalia late on Sunday, and there was increased military
activity at an airbase in northern Kenya on Monday.

Alfred Mutua, spokesman for the Kenya government, refused to be drawn on
military tactics in the coming days, and would only say that "Kenya has the
right under international law to protect its territorial integrity".

There were grave concerns, however, that the offensive would leave Kenya open to
attacks from al-Shabaab or al-Qaeda cells believed already to be in the country.

There are already international travel advisories, including one from Britain,
against visiting areas within 90 miles of the Kenya-Somalia border, following a
spate of kidnappings there.

Judith Tebbutt, a British tourist from Bishop's Stortford, was abducted and her
husband killed in the first such raid, on September 11.

A French holidaymaker was kidnapped three weeks later, and two Spanish aid
workers were taken from the Dadaab refugee camp last week.

There has been no news on the whereabouts of any of them.

Al-Shabaab has consistently denied that it is behind these kidnappings.

LOAD-DATE: December 21, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTNS


                  Copyright 2011 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              146 of 331 DOCUMENTS


                                 Worcester News

                            October 18, 2011 Tuesday

Terror of car attack mum

BYLINE: Richard Vernalls

SECTION: LATEST (WN NEWS LATEST)

LENGTH: 355 words


A MUM has spoken about the terrifying moment robbers dragged her by the hair
from her car in a country lane.

The woman, whose two young children were in the car at the time, has spoken out
for the first time in a bid to trace her attackers.

She was driving along Hockham's Lane at Prickley in Martley, near Worcester,
when she saw a woman standing in the middle of the road near a white car. "I was
forced to stop, the woman was stood in the middle of the road," she said.

"It was a case of stop or actually run her over.

"In that position, a lot of people have said they wouldn't stop but I had to.

"I saw a woman in the middle of the road and thought she must be in trouble and
being the caring sort of person I am I started to open the door as well.

"It was only then that I saw the man who was with her.

"I want these people caught, because my 14-week old was in the front of the car
and my two-year-old was in the back seat."

The attack has left the woman, who wishes to remain anonymous, shaken although
she has already got back behind the wheel of her car.

"I use Hockham's Lane to get to Worcester and there is nothing along that lane
for a good way.

"I have spoken to people who lived in the village for more than 40 years and
they have never heard of anything like this happening before."

The robbers pulled her from the car by her hair, causing her to fall to the
ground and then stole a sat-nav, a purse containing cards, an envelope with cash
inside, a car stereo fascia, a platinum ring, Jean Paul Gaultier perfume and
CDs.

They got back in their car and drove off towards Ockeridge.

Police investigating the incident are continuing their hunt for the couple, who
were white and both had Eastern European accents.

The man was in his 50s, short and stout with thinning hair on top and tanned
skin.

He was wearing a short black leather jacket and black gloves.

The woman was in her 20s, had greasy blonde hair tied up and was of slim build
and scruffy.

She was wearing baggy dark blue or black jeans, a dark zipped-up jacket and a
dark scarf.

Anyone with information should call police on 0300 3333000 or call Crimestoppers
on 0800 555111.

LOAD-DATE: October 18, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2011 NewsQuest Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              147 of 331 DOCUMENTS


                       BBC Monitoring Europe - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                           October 19, 2011 Wednesday

Turkish TV reports 24 soldiers killed in "terrorist attacks" in southeast

LENGTH: 155 words


Text of report by Turkish privately-owned NTV television's NTV Online website on
19 October

[Unattributed report from Istanbul: "Sad news from Hakkari"]

There are 24 martyrs in Hakkari.

According to initial reports, 24 soldiers were martyred and 18 soldiers wounded
in the terrorist attacks in Yuksekova and Cukurca.

The clashes, which started at 2200 GMT, increased in the regions of Yuksekova
and Cukurca. The clashes continued until 0200 GMT in the morning. There are
reports that attacks have been launched to eight different targets in Cukurca
and that clashes are continuing.

The military units, who were attacked, were positioned in the region close to
the border. There are reports that the terrorists escaped to Iraq after their
attack. In the aftermath of the terrorist attack, Chief of the General Staff
General Necdet Ozel and the force commanders went to the region.

Source: NTV Online website, Istanbul, in Turkish 19 Oct 11

LOAD-DATE: October 19, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2011 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              148 of 331 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring South Asia - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                           October 19, 2011 Wednesday

US issues travel alert warning of terror attacks in India

LENGTH: 152 words


Text of report by Indian news agency PTI

Washington, 19 October: The US has issued a travel alert to its citizens in
India, warning them of possible terror attacks in the country during the holiday
season.

"Recent Indian government advisories and local media report increased
indications that terrorists are planning attacks in India," the State Department
said in a statement Tuesday.

"US citizens travelling or residing in India are always urged to maintain a
heightened situational awareness and a low profile, monitor local news reports,
consider the level of security present when visiting public places, and take
appropriate steps to bolster their personal security," said the alert.

It also noted that public places, such as markets, trains, buses, religious
sites, hotels and restaurants were potential targets.

The alert expires on 20 January 2012.

Source: PTI news agency, New Delhi, in English 0625gmt 19 Oct 11

LOAD-DATE: October 19, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2011 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              149 of 331 DOCUMENTS


                       BBC Monitoring Europe - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                           October 19, 2011 Wednesday

EU condemns Kurdish rebels' attack, backs Turkey's resolve to fight terrorism

LENGTH: 194 words


Text of report in English by Turkish semi-official news agency Anatolia

BRUSSELS (A.A) -October 19, 2011 -European Union's top foreign affairs official
has condemned terrorist attacks that killed and wounded scores of troops in
southeast Turkey.

"I was appalled to learn of yesterday's shameful terrorist attacks in Turkey by
the PKK. I condemn them in the strongest terms, and deeply regret the loss of
life. I also offer my condolences to the bereaved families, and wish a quick
recovery to those injured," Catherine Ashton said in a press release on
Wednesday.

Wednesday's pre-dawn terrorist attacks by the PKK on several targets in Cukurca
and Yuksekova towns of the southeastern province of Hakkari killed 24 Turkish
troops and wounded 18 others.

"I stress once again that the EU stands with Turkey in its resolve to fight
against terrorism. We should all be clear that nothing justifies such
indiscriminate violence. The PKK remains on the EU's list of terrorist
organizations, and the EU has recently stated its readiness to intensify its
dialogue with Turkey in combating terror," Ashton said.

Source: Anatolia news agency, Ankara, in English 1440 gmt 19 Oct 11

LOAD-DATE: October 19, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2011 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              150 of 331 DOCUMENTS


                       BBC Monitoring Europe - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                           October 19, 2011 Wednesday

President says Turkey to fight terrorism, take "great" revenge for attacks

LENGTH: 218 words


Text of report by Turkish commercial NTV television on 19 October

[Statement by Turkish President Abdullah Gul in the aftermath of terrorist
attacks in Hakkari's Cukurca District - live from Istanbul]

Our pain from yesterday and today is great. I would like to first ask for God's
mercy for the soldiers, policemen, and citizens who have lost their lives,
patience to their families, and extend my condolences to our nation. Nobody
should forget that those who have inflicted this pain on us will suffer the
consequences. Those who think that they are weakening our state with these
attacks and that they are bringing our state into line will realize that our
revenge for these attacks will be great and that they will be reciprocated.

They will see, sooner or later, that taking arms and launching a war against the
Turkish state will not achieve anything. Those who aid and abet them and those
who allow them to move around freely in this manner should most definitely learn
a lesson and suffer the consequences.

The whole world should know that Turkey will fight this terrorism till the end
in a determined and resolute manner, will in no way whatsoever be shaken by this
terrorism, and will do everything possible until the end to end this terror.

Source: NTV television, Istanbul, in Turkish 0707 gmt 19 Oct 11

LOAD-DATE: October 19, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2011 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              151 of 331 DOCUMENTS



                                  M2 PressWIRE

                           October 19, 2011 Wednesday

Death toll of UN staff from Nigerian terrorist attack rises to 12

LENGTH: 228 words


October 19, 2011

The toll of United Nations staff members killed by the suicide bomb attack in
August against its offices in Abuja, the Nigerian capital, has risen to 12 with
the death of one of those critically injured, bringing the overall death toll to
24.



Sunday Nwachukwu, an employee of the UN Development Programme (  UNDP  ) who was
one of the 12 first critically injured UN staff members on life-support systems
to be evacuated to South Africa by air ambulances after the 26 August attack,
passed away earlier this month, it was announced  today.

"The devastating attack has taken the lives of our colleagues and partners and
maimed many people all of whom were in the building in the pursuit of service to
others," UN Resident Coordinator Daouda Touré said.

"Their sacrifice will not be in vain; we will strive to pursue our work, the
work for the people of Nigeria as prescribed in the UN Charter, which says 'we
the people'."

He reaffirmed that UN agencies in Nigeria will continue with their mission to
improve the lives of poor people, conquer hunger, disease and illiteracy, and
encourage respect for each other's rights and freedoms, as well as focusing on
job creation, poverty alleviation, democratic governance, and reproductive and
maternal health for all.

Mr. Touré described Mr. Nwachukwu as "a hard-working colleague and a friendly
brother."

LOAD-DATE: October 20, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newswire

JOURNAL-CODE: M2PW


                      Copyright 2011 Normans Media Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              152 of 331 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                    October 19, 2011 Wednesday 11:35 AM GMT

My Sister Lives On The Mantelpiece by Annabel Pitcher: review;
Annabel Pitcher's fine debut, My Sister Lives On The Mantelpiece, is the tale of
a family torn apart after a terrorist attack.

BYLINE: By Martin Chilton Digital Culture Editor

LENGTH: 576 words


The opening of Annabel Pitcher's novel grabs you by the throat and wrenches you
in.

"My sister Rose lives on the mantelpiece. Well some of her does. Three of her
fingers, her right elbow and her knee cap are buried in a graveyard in London."

Rose has been blown up by terrorists in an attack in Trafalgar Square, leaving
behind a father, mother, twin sister and younger brother, Jamie. Their family
life disintegrates under the weight of the grief, anger and misery of the
tragedy.

Mum runs off with her 'support worker' Nigel and following the parental split,
Jamie and his sister Jasmine are taken by their father, drinking himself
senseless and pathologically honouring the urn in which Rose's part-remains are
kept on the mantelpiece, to live in the scenic Lake District, having sought a
new life away from the grotty sprawl of Finsbury Park and the traumatic memories
of London.

Alcoholism, racism, bullying, eating problems, infidelity are woven into the
tale of what happens to this displaced trio. But Pitcher's tale is absolutely
not a tedious 'issue' novel. It is a complex and moving account of two
bewildered children coming to terms with grief and loss - as much with the loss
of their absent mother as of their murdered sister Rose.

The heavy-drinking father, who you sense intentionally is never fully fleshed
out, is mired in racial prejudice, blaming Muslims for all the ills of Britain.
You take on trust that being mad with grief has created this sodden and sorry
excuse for a father. Even he is not beyond redemption and he certainly fares
better in the story than the uncaring, absent mother. We are shown little about
her to arouse sympathy. She is just someone who has abandoned her children.

The father's racism clearly appals but the twist comes in the way that
10-year-old Jamie finds companionship, solace and even love from his only friend
at school, a smart, crafty and witty Muslim girl called Sunya. The portrayal of
their relationship overflows with charm and is the real reason the book succeeds
so well in dealing deftly, rather than heavy-handedly, with the social issues
this strange and tragic situation brings up. Jamie's relationship with his
sister, struggling with her own problems (eating, it is suggested) is also
presented with subtlety.

Pitcher                                          handles Jamie's sad plight very
well. The scenes where he is bullied at school are convincing and heart
wrenching - especially the apathetic response of the teachers. His lonely and
bemusing life makes him mournfully reflect at one point:

"Summer's a bit too bright for me . . . Autumn's better. Everything's bit more
droopy and you don't feel left out of the fun."

The scene where he discovers his cat Roger has been killed in a road accident is
achingly sad and brings into sharp focus the truth: why wouldn't that bring more
tears than reflecting on an urn containing ashes of a sister who had died when
Jamie was only five and whom he could barely remember?

This is a book which could easily have sunk under the weight of sentimentality.
That it doesn't, that it is an inspiring tale of resilience and kindness, is a
tribute to Pitcher. This is a fine debut novel. Truthful, clear-eyed and wise.

Annabel Pitcher: My Sister Lives On The Mantelpiece (Orion Books)

LOAD-DATE: December 21, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTNS


                  Copyright 2011 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              153 of 331 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring Middle East - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                           October 20, 2011 Thursday

Mauritanian army attacks "terrorists" in Mali

LENGTH: 83 words


Text of report by Mauritanian news agency AMI

The Mauritanian armed forces have spotted terrorist elements who were preparing
to launch an attack on our territory from the Waddou Forest [in western Mali],
[the Mauritanian news agency] AMI learnt Thursday [20 October] from [Army]
National Staff's press office.

"Our forces this morning carried out preventive air strikes against this enemy
in order to destroy it," the same source added.

Source: AMI news agency, Nouakchott, in French 1616 gmt 20 Oct 11

LOAD-DATE: October 20, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2011 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              154 of 331 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring South Asia - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                            October 21, 2011 Friday

French minister urges Pakistan to help prevent terror attacks

LENGTH: 526 words


Text of report by Indian news agency PTI

New Delhi, 21 October: Reflecting growing international frustration over
Pakistan, France Friday [21 October] mounted pressure asking it to stop terror
attacks from its soil.

"On terrorism, we (France and India) are in total agreement. The threat is still
present.... We will therefore strengthen cooperation and we urge Pakistan to do
everything in its power to prevent terrorists from launching strikes from its
territory," French Foreign Minister Alain Juppe said.

Terrorism was not a fight of one civilisation against the other, he said.

"It is a fight of one civilization against barbarity," he said in a speech at
the French embassy here.

Juppe's remarks come in the wake of US Secretary of State Hillary Clinton's
blunt message to Pakistan that it cannot keep "snakes" in its backyard and
expect them only to bite its neighbours.

Making a strong pitch for UN reforms, Juppe backed India's bid for a permanent
seat in the UN Security Council as part of the G-4 initiative.

Admitting that there were differences in the way the West, Russia and the
developing countries approach a global issue, he said it would be a "political
and strategic error" to continue with the old system of five permanent members
of the UNSC.

"When the world changes, institutions must change. France proposes the
enlargement of the UN Security Council, which no more represents the reality of
the world of the 21st century," Juppe said.

On Libya, Juppe said that with the death of Mu'ammar al-Qadhafi NATO operations
can be considered over and the new regime was in control of the entire country.

The era of tyranny, bloodshed and repression was now over and a new era of
peace, democracy and building a new Libya had begun, he said adding that France
was ready to assist the Libyan people in their endeavours.

On Qadhafi's killing, he said "our target was not to kill Qadhafi. We had asked
him to relinquish power. It was then up to the Libyans to judge him. But things
developed the other way," he said.

"They have to build a real democracy, they have to establish a rule of law and
an independent judicial system," Juppe said adding that the UN will have a
leading role to play in this area.

He said it would be for the National Transition Council to decide whether it
wants to have a UN peacekeeping force stationed in Libya.

France was also supporting the people of Syria in their quest for democracy,
Juppe said adding that the situation there was "unacceptable".

"Given the crimes against humanity committed by the ruling regime, France is
asking the UN Security Council to assume its responsibility and sanction the
bloody repression," he said.

"I hope we will soon reach an agreement on multilateral action that can step up
pressure on the Syrian regime," Juppe said adding that France did not intend to
launch unilateral military action.

"Some fear that it may open the door for unilateral and military action. It is
in no way our intention. When France and its allies take military action it is
only in accordance with international military laws," Juppe said.

Source: PTI news agency, New Delhi, in English 1349gmt 21 Oct 11

LOAD-DATE: October 21, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2011 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              155 of 331 DOCUMENTS



                          The Daily Telegraph (London)

                           October 22, 2011 Saturday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

Real IRA terrorist who plotted London attack jailed after MI5 sting

BYLINE: Duncan Gardham

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 515 words


A MEMBER of the Real IRA has been jailed for 12 years for trying to buy
thousands of pounds worth of bomb-making equipment to attack London.

Michael Campbell, 39, was caught in a six-year operation set up by an MI5
informer who risked his life to help bring down the terrorist cell.

Video footage and intercepted communications showed Campbell paid (EURO)6,000
(£5,200) for high-grade explosives, grenade launchers, detonators, AK-47s and a
sniper rifle, to Lithuanian agents posing as Chechen arms dealers.

In a chilling audio recording, Campbell is heard discussing how easy it would be
with the type of equipment on offer to plant a bomb in London and escape.

"You imagine us getting over to England if you had 10 of them and 10 clocks in a
holdall. You imagine, with a six-hour timer we could be over to London and back.

"Just tick, tick, tick - gone. Leave it anywhere," he said.

He was sentenced to 12 years in jail after a two-year trial in Lithuania for
supporting the Real IRA, attempting to smuggle guns and explosives, and
possession of firearms.

Campbell's older brother, Liam, was one of the Real IRA leaders found liable by
a civil court for the 1998 Omagh bombing. He is fighting extradition to
Lithuania with one other man over their alleged involvement in the plot.

The case centred on an undercover agent, known as Robert Jardine, who for years
provided MI5 with vital intelligence about the plans of dissident republicans.

Irmantas Mikelionis, the chief prosecutor of Lithuania's Organised Crime
Department, praised his bravery. He said: "Secret agents knew about the dangers
they may face but they performed their duties and demonstrated their courage and
commitment."

Theresa May, the Home Secretary, said: "I would like to thank the Security
Service and the Lithuanian authorities who have worked tirelessly and bravely."

The operation began as an MI5 investigation into cigarette smuggling, the Real
IRA's main source of funding, but became an undercover arms sting code-named
Uncritical. Jardine, a businessman with a sideline in cigarette smuggling,
agreed to meet a Real IRA commander in South Armagh. At one point he had to
climb into a blacked-out van, lined in bubblewrap with a shovel on the floor,
which he thought was taking him to his execution.

In August 2007, the Lithuanian security service, the VSD, lured Campbell and an
associate to the country for an arms deal with a man they believed was a
Chechen, whom they nicknamed "Rambo".

Unknown to the two men, they were actually at a military base. The agent allowed
them to fire sniper rifles and rocket-propelled grenades, and Campbell asked one
officer how much explosive material was needed to blow up a bulletproof
government car.

Two months later, Campbell put down a (EURO)5,000 deposit at a hotel in
Marbella, Spain. In January 2008, he travelled to Vilnius and handed over
another (EURO)1,000 for 26lb of TNT, timers, detonators and two grenade
launchers. He was arrested shortly after being filmed examining a Barrett sniper
rifle, saying he wanted it to "kill Brits" and explaining to an agent that he
was "IRA".

LOAD-DATE: October 22, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Michael Campbell in a court in Lithuania yesterday, left, and, above,
caught on film with undercover agents he believed were Chechen arms dealers
WARREN ALLOTT

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DTL


                  Copyright 2011 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              156 of 331 DOCUMENTS



                         The Sunday Telegraph (London)

                                October 23, 2011
                                   Edition 3;
                                National Edition

KENYA TERROR ATTACK WARNING;
WORLD WATCH

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 31

LENGTH: 44 words


The US Embassy in Kenya yesterday issued a warning of an "imminent threat of
terrorist attacks". It said it had credible information of attacks directed at
"prominent Kenyan facilities and areas where foreigners are known to congregate,
such as malls and nightclubs".

LOAD-DATE: October 23, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: STL


                  Copyright 2011 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              157 of 331 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                      October 23, 2011 Sunday 8:49 PM GMT

Expatriates face terrorist attack in Kenya, says US;
Kenya faces a "credible" threat of an "imminent" fresh terrorist attack
targeting expatriates in its capital, Nairobi, the Unites States has warned.

BYLINE: By Mike Pflanz Nairobi

LENGTH: 204 words


The announcement did not specify who might carry out any such mission, but it
follows Kenya's military invasion of southern Somalia last week, which prompted
threats of revenge from Islamists linked to al-Qaeda .

The embassy cited "credible information of an imminent threat of terrorist
attacks directed at prominent Kenyan facilities and areas where foreigners are
known to congregate, such as malls and nightclubs."

The statement added: "The embassy has taken measures to limit official US
government travel to Kenya and US citizens should take this information into
account when planning travel and consider deferring travel at this time".

A Foreign Office spokesman in London said: "Our overall level of advice for
Kenya has not changed; it already talked of the high threat level of terrorism.

"But we updated it last night to reflect information and reports of this new
threat."

Nairobi has suffered al-Qaeda bombings before, when suicide cells hit the US
embassy in 1998. More than 200 people, mostly Kenyan, died.

Analysts suggest that the current threat was unlikely to turn into something as
major, but that there were still possibilities of smaller suicide bombings at
hotels, shopping centres and entertainment venues.

LOAD-DATE: December 21, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTNS


                  Copyright 2011 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              158 of 331 DOCUMENTS



                                 thetimes.co.uk

                      October 23, 2011 Sunday 11:31 AM GMT

'Imminent threat' of terror attacks in Kenya

BYLINE: Lucinda Beaman

SECTION: AFRICA

LENGTH: 267 words


The US Embassy in Nairobi has warned there is an "imminent threat" of terrorist
attacks in Kenya, possibly targeting foreigners, one week after Kenyan forces
crossed into Somalia in pursuit of al-Shabaab fighters accused of the abductions
and murders of British, French and Spanish tourists and aid workers.

The embassy cited "credible information" pointing to attacks directed at
"prominent Kenyan facilities and areas where foreigners are known to congregate,
such as malls and night clubs", without specifying who might carry out the
attacks.

It added that it had limited official US Government travel to Kenya and that its
citizens should also consider deferring travel to the East African nation.

Last week, Kenya sent troops across its border with Somalia to pursue members of
the al Qaeda-linked militant group al-Shabaab, accused of the murder of British
tourist David Tebbutt and Marie Dedieu, a 66-year-old disabled Frenchwoman who
died last week after a three-week kidnapping. Judith Tebbutt, 56, remains
missing after being abducted from the beach cottage she was sharing with her
husband at the time of the September attack.

Two Spanish aid workers have also been taken hostage in the past month.

Kenya has not said how many of its troops are deployed, but analysts estimate
the number at between 2,000 and 3,000.

Al-Shabaab has denied responsibility for the kidnappings and warned of bloody
retaliation, leading Kenyan officials to increase security measures in Nairobi's
central business district.

In 1998, 224 people were killed in truck bombings at the US embassies in Kenya
and Tanzania.

LOAD-DATE: October 24, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication


                     Copyright 2011 News International Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                              159 of 331 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring Middle East - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                            October 24, 2011 Monday

"Terrorist" confesses to attacking Syrian government establishments

LENGTH: 578 words


Text of report in English by state-run Syrian news agency SANA website

["Terrorist al-Assaf Confesses to Attacking Government Establishments and Army
Checkpoints, Kidnapping..." - SANA Headline]

Damascus, (SANA) - Terrorist Muhannad Fouad al-Asaf, a leader of an armed
terrorist group in Homs, confessed to attacking government establishments,
kidnapping, torturing and murdering citizens, shooting and killing demonstrators
to frame the army and security forces, attacking army checkpoints, and
vandalizing public and private property.

In confessions broadcast by the Syrian TV on Sunday [23 October], al-Assaf said
that he was a neighbour of Bilal al-Ghen who invited him to his home and asked
him to join him in demonstrations, to which al-Assaf agreed.

Al-Assaf, a barber born in 1974, said that al-Ghen tasked him with collecting
money from specific people, two of which gave him a total of SYP 300,000 while
the third, a woman named Fadia al-Jandali, have him a box of medicine, a box of
ammo and SYP 500,000 she collected as donations from rich people she worked for
as a cook.

"Bilal would go out in his pickup truck on which he mounted a machine-gun and
opened fire on the Police Command we also broke street and traffic signs he told
us that he will arm us and indeed he gave us weapons and I formed an armed group
consisting of 9 people while Bilal's group contained more than 20 gunmen," he
said.

"We began by opening fire on protesters, killing ten of them to accuse the
government of killing them we also attacked the Trade Union and the Workers
Pharmacy which we attacked ten times we attacked an infirmary in al-Khalidiya
and opened fire on it," al-Asad elaborated, adding that Bilal's cousin Majed
al-Ghen fired an RPG round at the infirmary.

"We attacked dozens of checkpoints in Homs We attacked the school of Yusuf
al-Azma in al-Khalidyah neighbourhood. We were about 100 gunmen we had AK-47
rifles and pump-action shotguns. Bilal had a machine-gun. Bilal used to give me
money to buy rifles, pump-action shotguns, RPG rounds, grenades and ammunition
from 'Khalid al-Zubi' from Tel Kalakh area." He confessed.

He indicated that the weapons were coming to them through vehicles transporting
vegetables from Lebanon, smuggling weapons from Beirut to Tel Kalakh to Bab Amro
in Homs, then they would phone Bilal to receive them.

"In one operation, we smuggled 15 RPG rounds and about ten hand-made explosive
charges. Bilal had two Thuraya satellite phones and several mobile phones,"
al-Assaf said, pointing out that the group of Bilal al-Ghen abducted people and
took them to a house in Old Homs, where they beat them up and tortured them
before putting them in a car.

"I would drive this car to distant areas We killed several people and dumped
their bodies I knew some of the people whom we killed. One of them was Ahmad
al-Abrash and another was called Bashar. I was among the group that killed
al-Abrash," he said.

On the attack on the Homs Police Command, al-Assaf said "Bilal phoned
Abdul-Minim Kolko, AKA Abu Hassan, then Bilal asked us to go by car to observe
if there are nearby army or law-enforcement personnel. Bilal then went in his
pick-up truck with a machine-gun mounted on it and opened fire on the Police
Command along with his cousins."

He concluded that "Once, we attacked the Police Command with grenades and RPG
rounds Bilal's group also killed a policeman at night on Hama Road."

Source: SANA news agency website, Damascus in English 24 Oct 11

LOAD-DATE: October 24, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2011 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              160 of 331 DOCUMENTS



                          The Daily Telegraph (London)

                            October 24, 2011 Monday
                                   Edition 2;
                                National Edition

Expatriates face terrorist attack in Kenya, says US

BYLINE: Mike Pflanz

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 21

LENGTH: 156 words


KENYA faces a "credible" threat of an "imminent" terrorist attack targeting
expatriates in its capital, Nairobi, the Unites States has warned.

The announcement did not specify who might carry out any such attack, but it
follows Kenya's military invasion of southern Somalia last week, which prompted
threats of revenge from Islamists linked to al-Qaeda.

The embassy cited "credible information of an imminent threat of terrorist
attacks directed at prominent Kenyan facilities and areas where foreigners are
known to congregate, such as malls and nightclubs."

The statement added: "The embassy has taken measures to limit official US
government travel to Kenya and US citizens should take this information into
account when planning travel and consider deferring travel at this time."

A Foreign Office spokesman in London said: "Our overall level of advice for
Kenya has not changed; it already talked of the high threat level of terrorism."

LOAD-DATE: October 24, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DTL


                  Copyright 2011 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              161 of 331 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                      October 24, 2011 Monday 8:40 PM GMT

Nairobi bomb attacks increase al-Shabaab fears;
Two separate explosions hit Kenya's capital on Monday, killing one person and
injuring 24 others the day after new international warnings of fresh terror
attacks linked to Somalia's Islamists.

BYLINE: By Mike Pflanz Nairobi

LENGTH: 417 words


A grenade was detonated at a busy bus stop in the city's centre as commuters
queued to go home last night, less than 18 hours after an earlier explosion at
an after-hours pub.

Both attacks appear to have been targeting low-income Kenyans, rather than
expatriates, but immediate suspicions immediately fell on al-Shabaab, Somalia's
al-Qaeda-linked Islamists.

The US embassy in Nairobi warned at the weekend that it had "credible"
information pointing to an "imminent" terror attack on places frequented by
foreigners in the Kenyan capital.

The city hosts a large expatriate population, mostly working at the regional
headquarters of large multinational corporations or for the raft of United
Nations and aid organisations based here.

The two explosions came as some 2,000 Kenyan solders renewed their push, through
heavy rains, towards a key town in southern Somalia held by al-Shabaab.

The Islamists had warned that they would target Kenyan interests, but police
publicly refused to link the first blast with the al-Shabaab threat, which came
after the Kenyan invasion. There were few early details of the second explosion,
at 8pm local time.

"A grenade exploded, one person is dead and 10 are injured," said Alfred Mutua,
the Kenyan government spokesman. He would not immediately comment further.

But privately sources had earlier said that the first attacker, who has not been
caught, was likely to be an al-Shabaab sympathiser who decided to act alone but
who was hoping for recognition by the Somali hardliners.

"It's probably that he was a lone wolf, but was wanting to show off to the
Shabaab leadership in Somalia," said one senior police source not authorised to
speak publicly.

"If it was something ordered directly from the big men of Shabaab, we would have
expected something much bigger."

Since they were ordered across the border in to their troublesome neighbour
eight days ago, the Kenyans have not yet engaged the Islamists' army in any
significant battles.

However defence department sources in Nairobi said that they expected "the first
battles" to begin this week.

Aerial bombing raids on al-Shabaab positions close to its coastal stronghold at
Kismayo continued on Sunday night. It was unclear if Kenya's air force was
carrying out the missions, or US drones.

Analysts warn that the Kenyan invasion risks uniting al-Shabaab's loyalists at a
time when the organisation was fracturing and losing support, largely due to it
running out of money and poor handling of a widening famine in its territory.

LOAD-DATE: December 21, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTNS


                  Copyright 2011 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              162 of 331 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring Middle East - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                            October 25, 2011 Tuesday

"Three terrorists" confess to smuggling arms, attacking convoy - Syrian TV

LENGTH: 132 words


Text of report in English by state-run Syrian news agency SANA website

["Three Terrorists Confess to Attacking Security Detachments, Smuggling Firearms
from Turkey" - SANA Headline]

Damascus, (SANA) - The Syrian TV is set to broadcast the confessions of
terrorists Ala'a Ahmad Nanna, Walid Ahmad Nanna and Mouayad Ghannam during the
8:30 p.m. and 11:30 p.m news on Tuesday.

Brothers Ala'a and Walid Nanna confessed to joining armed terrorist groups in
attacking a military security detachment in Idlib and killing personnel, in
addition to smuggling firearms from Turkey to Lattakia.

Terrorist Ghannam confessed to participating in smuggling firearms and ammo from
Turkey, in addition to smuggling large quantities of fuel to Turkey.

Source: SANA news agency website, Damascus in English 25 Oct 11

LOAD-DATE: October 25, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2011 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              163 of 331 DOCUMENTS


                                  Daily Record

                           October 25, 2011, Tuesday

GERBIL PAL'S GIRL IN GUN TERROR ATTACK;
SHOTS FIRED AT EX'S HOME AFTER SHE PUTS KIDS TO BED

BYLINE: Janice Burns

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 359 words


A MUM who dated a pal of gangster Kevin "Gerbil" Carroll has survived a gun
attack on her home.

Fiona Wilson had just put her two kids to bed when someone shot at her through
her living room window.

Underworld sources say she is a former lover of Stevie McLaggan, who was with
Carroll last year when he was shot dead in an ASDA car park.

Fiona, 34, was in her council house in Balornock, Glasgow, with her children
when shots were fired into the front room at 9.45pm on Sunday.

The terrified mum escaped injury. She ran to check on her four-year-old son and
daughter aged 12, and stayed with them until police arrived.

A neighbour said both kids have health problems.

Fiona gets mobility allowance for her son.

Police cordoned off the street. Officers spent yesterday searching the garden
and nearby hedges and speaking to neighbours.

An old lady who lives nearby told the Record: "Fiona is a great mum. She dotes
on her kids and would never do anything to put them at risk.

"Her wee boy is very poorly and has to wear an oxygen mask. Her daughter also
has some kind of illness.

"I was just about to go to bed when I heard the gunshots. I thought it was kids
setting of fireworks.

"Minutes later, the street was swarming with police cars."

Another neighbour added: "God knows what would have happened if the kids had
been in the room.

"This area's getting worse." McLaggan, 35, was in Gerbil's black Audi with
another associate, John Bonner, when Carroll was killed outside the ASDA in
Robroyston, Glasgow, in January 2010.

He lives a few streets from Fiona but says he knew nothing about the gun attack
until he drove past and saw the police cars.

McLaggan said: "It's terrible what has happened. I don't know why anyone would
do such a thing.

"Fiona and I have both moved on but I think she recently split up with someone.
She has obviously p***** someone off, hasn't she?" Fiona's new car, bought with
her mobility allowance, was targeted two weeks ago by thugs who smashed its
windows.

Police confirmed they were called to Fiona's house after "reports of shots being
fired". Inquiries are continuing.

A man accused of Carroll's murder is due to stand trial next March.

LOAD-DATE: October 25, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: HUNT FOR CLUES Police examine bullet hole in Fiona's living room
window. Above: McLaggan at Carroll's funeral

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


            Copyright 2011 Scottish Daily Record & Sunday Mail Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              164 of 331 DOCUMENTS


                            South Wales Evening Post

                            October 25, 2011 Tuesday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

GIRL, 13, IN KNIFE ATTACK TERROR;
Girl, 13, in knife terror

BYLINE: CHANTELLE REES

SECTION: NEWS; FRONT PAGE; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 345 words


A KNIFE-WIELDING man followed and tried to rob a 13-year-old girl as she walked
home from Llanelli's train station.

Police officers are now investigating the incident, which took place in Caswell
Street on Saturday.

Officers said the brave schoolgirl refused to hand over money and her phone
despite her attacker's demands.

The force has now launched an appeal for witnesses to the crime.

Detective sergeant Ifan Charles described the incident as "very unpleasant" and
urged members of the public to come forward with information.

He added: "Police are investigating an attempted robbery of a 13-year-old
female, which happened at about 6pm on Saturday.

"The female exited the train at Llanelli station and walked alone along Russell
Street, Llywelyn Street and crossed the road onto Caswell Street."

"This male followed her all of this distance and then approached her at the .

and demanded her money and mobile phone whilst threatening her with a knife. The
female did not hand over any property." Councillor Roger Price, of Albert
Street, said he was horrified to hear such an incident taking place. He said:
"There have been recent reports of antisocial behaviour in the area but never
anything of this nature, so this comes as a shock to me. "I would like to ask
anyone who may have been in the area and witnessed this crime to come forward,
as without the help of the public the police are much weaker." The attacker is
white, about 5ft 4in, aged around 20-years-old and slim. Mr Charles also said
the suspect wore a dark hooded top, had a "high voice for his age" and crooked
teeth. He said: "While no-one was injured in this incident, it was obviously
unpleasant and distressing for the victim. "I would appeal to anyone who was in
the area at the time of the incident to contact police immediately as they may
have information which could help the investigation." ?Anyone with information,
who may know the identity of the suspect, or who was in the area at the time is
asked to contact Llanelli CID on 01267 222020. ? c h an t e l l e . re e s @ s w
w m e d i a . c o . u k

LOAD-DATE: October 25, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: SWP


                    Copyright 2011 South Wales Evening Post
                              All Rights Reserved

                              165 of 331 DOCUMENTS


                       BBC Monitoring Africa - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                           October 26, 2011 Wednesday

Senior Kenyan police meet over grenade attacks, anti-terror effort

LENGTH: 499 words


Text of report by Fred Mukinda entitled "Nairobi blast: Police meet to devise
new security plan" published by Kenyan privately-owned newspaper Daily Nation
website on 26 October, subheading as published

Senior police officers held closed-door meetings on Tuesday [25 October] to map
out fresh strategies after two deadly grenade attacks rocked Nairobi.

The explosions at Mwaura's bar on Mfangano Street and another near the OTC bus
stage occurred in a span of hours on Monday, in spite of intensified police
surveillance.

Police Commissioner Mathew Iteere summoned officers in charge of operations to
discuss change of tact in the way security operations are to be conducted.

CID [Criminal Investigation Department] director Ndegwa Muhoro and head of
operations Julius Ndegwa attended the meeting.

It was followed by another in which city police boss Antony Kibuchi gave fresh
orders to all Nairobi police division commanders and their CID counterparts.

Detail of new tactics remained scanty but some of those who attended revealed
that it was agreed security alerts, issued to warn of other attacks at public
places, be maintained.

Troops fighting

They however declined to divulge the action plans.

Investigations into the explosions have pointed at sympathisers of Al-Shabab,
the terror group with links to Al-Qa'idah, and which Kenyan troops have been
fighting for more than a week at their bases in Somalia.

Mr Muhoro told the [Daily] Nation no group had claimed responsibility for the
two attacks in which a man died and 25 others were injured.

"We are still asking Kenyans not to make non-essential visits to crowded public
places. Kenyans should also look out for anything suspicious.

It's better to be safe than sorry," he said. The CID boss added: "We are still
analysing the intelligence we have received. We need to be patient before we can
talk of a breakthrough."

Mr Muhoro said no suspects had been arrested and linked to the attacks.
Separately police spokesman Eric Kiraithe said several other meetings had been
held to "rethink coordination of operations."

"We've learnt close lessons from the blasts. We are determined to keep the
checks and wipe out bad elements from our midst.

The meetings took place as field officers intensified operations, in which
foreigners were arrested.

In Mumias [western Kenya], police arrested seven people of Somali origin
suspected to be linked to Al-Shabab. They arrived from Uganda through Busia on
Monday.

Area head of police George Seda said they were aboard a Nairobi-bound bus.

In Kilifi [coastal Kenya] police arrested nine Ugandans who claimed they were
Muslim preachers visiting Coast Province.

Area deputy OCPD [Officer Commanding Police Division] Maurice Musonye said they
were suspected of being in Kenya illegally.

In a related incident, a Kenyan vessel transporting 350 bags of tea leaves from
Mombasa to Kismaayo, Somalia, was on Monday morning turned back by police due to
security concerns.

Source: Daily Nation website, Nairobi, in English 26 Oct 11

LOAD-DATE: October 26, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2011 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              166 of 331 DOCUMENTS


                              The Plymouth Herald

                           October 26, 2011 Wednesday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

Girl describes terror of park gang attack

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 401 words


A GIRL who was sexually assaulted by a gang of teens in a park has described her
terrifying ordeal in a bid to help catch her attackers.

The 17-year-old was encircled by a pack of up to six youths as she walked
through Alexandra Park in Keyham.

She said she was "absolutely terrified" as the lads shoved her from one member
of the group to another and repeatedly touched her in a sexual manner.

The attack ended when she screamed and they fled.

The teenage girl was left severely shaken but without physical injury.

Detectives are searching for the culprits, who are thought to have been wearing
distinctive sports kits.

Police were investigating whether the youths were part of a local sports team.

The assault took place in the part of the park between Royal Navy Avenue and
North Down Crescent, sometime between 7.30pm and 8.50pm on Friday, October 21.

The victim, whose identity has been protected, said: "I was getting to the top
of the path when a group of five or six males surrounded me and started shoving
me around and touching me.

"It was absolutely terrifying. I couldn't look up, I couldn't see their faces
because I was being pushed so hard. I don't know how long it went on for.

"I screamed as loud as I could because I was afraid of what was going to happen
next. Then they all ran away.

"I was so scared and I haven't been able to leave the house by myself since."

She walked home and called the police. She said she spoke to officers and The
Herald to help the search for her attackers - and discourage others from walking
through the park at night.

Det Con Darren Evans said: "The girl has been walking through there when she's
been surrounded by a group of youths in what appears to be sports kit.

"They then formed a circle and were shoving her between them and started
touching her until she screamed and she finally got released.

"It really upset her and she's been bounced around quite aggressively for about
a couple of minutes in total.

"It's an upsetting incident for a young person to experience and we're keen to
find out who is responsible for it."

The incident is being treated as a sexual assault by touching, Dc Evans said.

Between five and six youngsters are suspected of taking part, all male, aged
between 14-18 and wearing similar sports gear or football strips.

Anyone with information is asked to call police on 101 or Crimestoppers,
anonymously, on 0800 555111 quoting reference ED/11/6214.

LOAD-DATE: October 26, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: PLH


                       Copyright 2011 The Plymouth Herald
                              All Rights Reserved

                              167 of 331 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring Middle East - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                           October 27, 2011 Thursday

Syria "terrorists" confess attacks, arms smuggling - news agency

LENGTH: 822 words


Text of report in English by state-run Syrian news agency SANA website

["Five" - SANA Headline]

Damascus, (SANA) - Terrorists Ala'a Ahmad Nanna and Walid Ahmad Nanna and
confessed to joining armed terrorist groups in attacking the Military Security
Detachment in Jisr al-Shughur in the northern province of and killing its
personnel, in addition to smuggling firearms and ammo from Turkey.

Terrorist Mouayad Ghannam confessed to participating in smuggling firearms and
ammo from Turkey to the Palestinian neighbourhood in Al-Ramel al-Janoubi in the
coastal province of Lattakia, in addition to smuggling large quantities of fuel
to Turkey.

The 26-year old terrorist Alaa Nanna, who lives in al-Raml al-Janoubi in
Lattakia and works at al-Zain Company for Food Industry, confessed that he and
some one called Hazem Faido from Khirbat al-Jouz village transported 50
pump-action shotguns to protesters in Jisr al-Shughour to help launch their
attack on the Military Security Detachment there.

Alaa said that he took a gun and participated in opening fire on the detachment
with 700 other armed men while a person called Mustafa Baydaq drove a bulldozer
to transport barrels full of explosives into the detachment and then detonated
them.

Terrorist Alaa confessed to cutting the hand and the leg of an injured soldier
with a cleaver before Baydaq shot him dead with a machine gun.

The terrorist added that having had the detachment under their control, Baydaq
used the bulldozer to put the dead security members into cars and threw some of
them into the Orontes River, while other bodies were thrown in a waste landfill
and in an unknown place.

He also confessed to transporting 50 pump-action shotguns to Lattakia City after
Hazen smuggled them into Syria from Turkey.

Alaa said that he and the other armed men were shooting at the army personnel
from the buildings' roofs in al-Ramal al-Janoubi. "I shot an army member in his
waist. He fell to the ground and I fled."

In turn, the 32-year-old Walid Nanna, Alaa's brother, who was born in al-Sleibeh
neighbourhood and also works at Al-Zain Company, confessed to participating in
transporting pump-action shotguns in bags from the Turkish borders to
al-Hamboshiyeh village to be later taken to Lattakia.

For his part, Mouayad Ghannam, who is from Idleb and lives in Lattakia,
confessed to participating in smuggling firearms and ammo from Turkey using his
microbus, in addition to smuggling large quantities of fuel in plastic
containers to Turkey for 25 days in an area called Harf al-Aass.

He said that he smuggled firearms into Syria four times and each time the
shipment included 12 pump-action shotguns.

Two terrorists Confess to Working among Armed Groups and Committing Criminal
Acts in Abu Kamal City

Jalal-allah al-Moussa and Mahmoud Faiyyad Ghour confessed to participating with
armed groups in perpetrating acts of killing, sabotage, arson and plunder in Abu
Kamal city in the northeastern province of Deir Ezzor.

Jalal-allah al-Moussa, who sells cigarette packets at the public square in Abu
Kamal, related how he participated in the protests in the city in exchange for
money, saying that he once received SYP 10000 from some called Saddam al-Jamal
in return for his participation.

He admitted dealing with an armed group who one Friday supplied him with weapons
"which they might need to protect the protest."

Al-Moussa added that he took part with the terrorist group's members in
attacking several government buildings in Abu Kamal.

"We set the city's prison on fire and helped the prisoners outaEuro|We also
burned the Security Forces centre and the police stations and stole all their
contents of confiscated stuff and firearms," the terrorist explained.

He added that the armed group heA'Acwas part of seized over 82 military firearms
and other hunting weapons, released two prisoners and stole drugs from the
prison.

"We also stole money from the Region's Director's house, incinerated the Court
and the Civil Affairs Institution building and threw gas bottles at the Security
Forces Centre," al-Moussa confessed.

He added that they also set up roadblocks which were later removed by the army
when it entered the city after few days.

The terrorist Mahmoud Faiyyad Ghour from Abu Kamal city, who was released from
prison on a general amnesty by President Bashar al-Assad, confessed to working
among an armed group and committing criminal acts.

"On my way back home from prison, I was stopped by a guy who gave money for
people to go out to the streets. He gave me a sum of money and I went on the
protest," Ghour said.

He admitted that he was part of an armed group of more than 1500 members, with
whom he participated in burning the building of the Region's Leadership
Department, stealing cars belonging to the Security and Police Forces and
shooting dead an army member in a narrow street who was on duty to protect
citizens.

Source: SANA news agency website, Damascus in English 26 Oct 11

LOAD-DATE: October 27, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2011 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              168 of 331 DOCUMENTS



                                 The Glaswegian

                                October 27, 2011
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

Police checks stop me flying from Glasgow;
Boss attacks 'abuse' of anti-terror powers

BYLINE: Joe McGuire

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 531 words


AN Asian businessman has stopped flying out of Glasgow Airport because he's been
stopped and questioned so often.

Mohammad Ashraf, chairman of fashion wholesalers Bonanza Scotland, says he now
leaves from ManchesterorHeathrowtoavoidthe hassle and embarrassment.

And he claimed other Asian businessmen were doing the same.

Mr Ashraf criticised Glasgow Airport for their use of Schedule Seven
anti-terrorism powers, which allow police to stop and question airline
passengers.

He claimed they disproportionately targeted minority groups. His comments follow
a call from city MSP Humza Yousaf for a review into airport security, after Home
Office figures showed more than half of those stopped under Schedule Seven
powers were non-white.

This is despite non-whites making up only eight per cent of the UK population.

Mr Ashraf, whose company has a turnover of more than £10million a year, said:
"These powers are not being used, they're being abused.

"You get stopped flying in and out of Glasgow.

"You're often the only Asian and get asked stupid questions.

"People will be walking past and looking at you. It's embarrassing."

Mr Ashraf, who flies abroad seven or eight times a year, stopped using Glasgow
after being stopped 10 times in two years.

He said: "When I used to take the Pakistan International Airlines flight out of
Glasgow, it was as though the authorities viewed everyone coming off it as
terrorists. Now I go via Manchester or Heathrow.

"The four-hour drive is a bit of a hassle but far less than the embarrassment at
Glasgow.

"And it's not just me. I know several businessmen who do the exact same thing.

"I've not been stopped once at Manchester or Heathrow.

"It seems to be a problem unique to Glasgow."

Born in Pakistan, Mr Ashraf's familymovedtotheUKin1962when
hewastwo,livinginHuddersfieldfor 15 years before moving to Glasgow.

He said: "I'm more Scottish than Asian, so this really rankles.

"With technology these days, the authorities know exactly who's coming off a
flight and where they've been.

"They should use this information to target stops more effectively, not stop
genuine business people."

This echoes a call from Scottish Nationalist MSP Humza Yousaf for the more
effective targeting of Schedule Seven powers.

Mr Yousaf said: "Policing has to be intelligence-led. If innocent Scots
arebeingstoppedover10timeswhile travelling through our airports, this will only
breed resentment against the authorities.

"Anycounter-terrorismexpertwill tell you such a sense of grievance can often
lead people down the road of violent extremism."

A Strathclyde Police spokesman saidtherewerenoformalcomplaints under
investigation on the matter.

Assistant Chief Constable Colin McCashey said: "The threat from terrorism is
very real.

"Schedule Seven of the Terrorism Act 2000 is a vital tool for tackling the
threat.

"The Scottish Police Service recognises that there is potential for innocent
members of the public to feel aggrieved by being questioned about terrorism.

"But the service is constantly monitoring the manner in which these powers are
utilised to ensure this vital work is conducted in a sensitive and professional
manner that minimises undue distress to innocent members of the public."

LOAD-DATE: April 11, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Security.. Mr Ashraf was stopped 10 times in two years at Glasgow
Airport

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: GLA


                       Copyright 2011 Trinity Mirror, plc
                              All Rights Reserved

                              169 of 331 DOCUMENTS


                       BBC Monitoring Africa - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                            October 28, 2011 Friday

Kenyan police arrest 20 suspects over terror attack near Somalia

LENGTH: 115 words


Police in the Kenya's border town of Mandera have arrested 20 suspects in
connection with yesterday's attack on a government vehicle, Shabeelle website
reported on 28 October.

Residents of Mandera town told Radio Shabeelle that "those arrested were Somalis
of Kenyan origin as well as Somali nationals".

Sources in Mandera town say, "Many traders have stayed indoors fearing to be
arrested in the ongoing operations".

SomaliaReport.com, quoting an Al-Shabab official, said "the group was behind the
attack" on the Kenyan government vehicle in which "four government employees
died".

Source: Shabeelle Media Network website, Mogadishu, in Somali 28 Oct 1,
SomaliaReport.com in English on 27 Oct 11

LOAD-DATE: October 28, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2011 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              170 of 331 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring Middle East - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                            October 28, 2011 Friday

Al-Iraqiyah TV shows recorded video footage of "terrorists" attacks, confessions

LENGTH: 2055 words


At 1810 GMT on 21 October, Baghdad Al-Iraqiyah Television in Arabic carries an
episode of a talk show entitled "Exclusive to Al-Iraqiyah" prepared and
presented by Host Abd-al-Karim Hamadi.

Footage of the attack on the Diyala Provincial Council

Hamadi begins by saying that the episode will cover the recent operation
conducted by the Iraqi Army's 54th Brigade of the 6th Division, in which they
arrested a major terrorist network and exposed its role in recent attacks.

At 1813 and 1913 GMT, the channel carries two video reports that show 40-minute
video footage of terrorist attacks, raid and arrest operations, clashes with
terrorists, and testimonies of arrestees.

The first video report ends with footage of the attack on the Diyala Provincial
Council.

To view the video of the operation, click on the link[1] to view the attached
video or a streamed [see removed media references] version in wmv format.

Arrestees are shown in the video reports stating their names, social
description, and accounts for operations they participated in.

Al-Saydat

Abdallah al-Saydat, from Saudi Arabia

He entered Iraq in 2007 to join the Islamic State of Iraq, ISI

Nom de guerre: Abu-al-Harith al-Madani

Al-Saydat says that he used to lead a reckless deviant life that almost cost him
his life and that he later repented and became a devout Muslim. At the mosque,
Saydat met an Iraqi man called Badran, and a Saudi man called Uthman, who
introduced him to jihad and took him to meetings with Shaykh Harith al-Dari,
leader of the 1920s Revolution Brigade and owner of Al-Rafidayn TV. Al-Saydat
adds that these meetings took place in 2007, during the year when Al-Dari was
holding meetings with Shaykh Musa al-Qarni, former secretary of Usama Bin Laden.
Al-Saydat adds that to reach Iraq, he passed through the Dayr al-Zur area in
Syria, and then crossed the Iraqi borders.

On his experience with the ISI, Al-Saydat says he was taken to Mosul, where he
witnessed "all forms of hypocrisy, lies, and deception, and people that had
nothing to do with Islam." He explains that the Al-Qa'idah group in Mosul
consisted of "corrupt members that were only interested in money, carried out
murders, and killed Christians for arbitrary reasons." Al-Saydat goes on saying
that members of the group were engaged in illegitimate sexual relations and
homosexual acts, noting that he was offered by the amir of Basra the chance to
work with him in stealing cars and killing their owners.

Hadi

Hassan Hadi Muhammad Abbas al-Amiri

Born in 1987, he lives in Al-Saydiyyah

Officer in the Iraqi intelligence services -Diyala Branch

Hadi says he provided the group with information about the Diyala Provincial
Council's office, which came under attack. He notes that according to a plan
devised by a man called Abdallah, two suicide bombers blew themselves up first,
while a third suicide bomber drove a booby-trapped car and blew up the office.
He adds: "I took them to Al-Najaf and showed them the location of the office.
However, the operation was postponed for a while, after which I was asked to
provide certain names of people who work with me."

Hassan Hadi says in the second video report that the group was given orders by
"Abdallah al-Ani" to carry out assassinations, noting that a sticky bomb attack
in Al-Amiriyah was his first operation targeting an officer.

Hasan

Uday Hasan,

Born in 1975, he joined the ISI in 2007

Nom de guerre: Abu-Qabas

Post: Official responsible for recruiting suicide bombers

Hasan says that among his first operations were assassinations and planting
bombs in cars, noting that his group was responsible for the car bombings in
Al-Karradah, the bank at Al-Nusur Square, and Al-Durah. On the Al-Durah
operation, Hasan says that a red car was booby-trapped and driven to Al-Nahdah
by a group member called "Abu-Shuruq," who executed the attack on police
vehicles. Hasan goes on to say that Bilal was the first first suicide bomber he
recruited.

Uday Hasan added that "the first assassinations he carried out targeted Ihsan
Uways, and his brother Husayn Uways, followed by Hajj Hasan and his nephew, in
addition to Khalid al-Masihi." He noted that orders were given by a man called
"Abu-Ruqayyah."

Bilal

Bilal Subhi Khumayyis from Diyala

Born in 1992

Post: Suicide bomber in ISI

Bilal says that he frequented the restaurant owned by Abu-Qabas [Uday Hasan],
and that he expressed desire to become a suicide bomber. Bilal says that
Abu-Qabas later recruited him, and he was transferred to the Al-Amiriyah area in
Baghdad. He then went to Al-Anbar and met with Abu-al-Harith [Abdallah
al-Saydat], and together they carried out the attack on the Diyala Provincial
Council.

Al-Murabit

Hamadi Bin Muhammad al-Murabit from Tunisia

Born in 1981, he entered Iraq in 2007

Post: Suicide bomber

Al-Murabit says he was received by an Iraqi man called "Abu-Wahhab," and that he
stayed in Biji, Samarra, where he met some of the 80 prisoners who had escaped
from the Badush Prison, including "Abd-al-Rahman al-Daghistani, Abu-Sulayman
al-Jazrawi, Abu-Abdallah al-Yamani, Abu-Abdallah al-Jazrawi, and their amir
Abu-Sabah, whose name is Abd-al-Rahman al-Harbi." Al-Murabit adds he was first
recruited as a suicide bomber, and then he became a combattant. However, he had
a heart condition that prevented him from assuming his post, so he was kept as
an administrator.

Al-Su'aydani

Al-Mawlidi Al-Su'aydani from Tunisia

He entered Iraq in 2008

Post: Al-Qa'idah commander of the sniper brigade in the sector of Mosul

Al-Su'aydani says that during his travels to Syria to trade in Turkish-made
clothing, he met a group of Iraqis who introduced him to jihad. Al-Su'aydani
notes that the first operation he took part in was a murder in the Al-Risalah
area. He also talks about a man called "Mukhtar," who carried the title of Wali,
and visited the Al-Hawijah area. Al-Su'aydani says that he did not want to kill
Iraqi military or policemen, noting that "we were first told that we will be
fighting Americans." On that issue, Al-Su'aydani comments that his group members
"lacked credibility and often lied."

Al-Juburi

Salman Fadil Shabib al-Juburi

Born in 1965, he lives in the Al-Jihad neighbourhood, Baghdad

He is a former lieutenant colonel in the army

Post: Military commander of Al-Karkh northern sector

Shabib says that during his term in the Al-Karkh northern sector, around 25 to
30 bombings were carried out in various areas, including Al-Amiriyah,
Al-Ghazaliyah, Al-Kazimiyah, Al-Utayfiyah, and Al-Mansurah, among others.

Al-Hayyani

Imad Jasim Muhammad Ahmad al-Hayyani

He lives in the Al-Taji area

Post: Commander of the demolitions squad

His brother is an officer in the Al-Amiriyah Criminal Department who had
assisted the ISI in facilitating the release procedure of their detainees.

Al-Ubaydi

Wisam Abd-al-Rahman Talib Rashid al-Ubaydi

Born in 1981, he lives on Hayfa Street, Baghdad

Post: Assassination squad commander

Wisam says that he became involved, together with Amjad Abu-Husayn, Mustafa
Nawfi, and Jamal Abu-Muhannad, in the kidnapping of a Japanese national in
Baghdad. Yasir says that they blindfolded the Japanese person, and shot a video
in which Amjad Abu Husayn read a statement, while he slaughtered the victim.
Afterward they delivered the body to the Al-Karkh Hospital.

Yasir

Al-Dulaymi

Yasir Sabbar Abdallah Khammas al-Dulaymi

He lives on Hayfa Street

He joined ISI in 2006

Post: Assassination squad commander

Yasir says that when the Iraqi Government announced its 100-day period, his
group was given directives to hinder the governemnt's efforts, and ordered to
attack all vehicles providing public services in Baghdad. He reveals that they
were given another order to park a booby-trapped car next to a road in
Al-Kazimiyah area to target the Iranian visitors.

The second video report shows in its final segment Major General Ahmad Ubadi,
commander of 6th Division, who says that his division received "directives by
the prime minister, and the commanders of the Baghdad and Al-Karkh Operations
Command" to thwart all terrorist attacks and pursue terrorist groups and
networks. Ubadi noted that the 54th, 22nd, and 24th brigades undertook the
mission.

Umran

At 1843 GMT, following the first video report, the host begins an interview, in
studio, with Ali Fadil Umran, commander of the 54th Brigade, who provides
additional details on the attack on the Diyala Provincial Council, and says:
"Prior to the attack, intelligence services had obtained information that an
attack might target one of two buildings next to the provincial council.
Accordingly, the Diyala Operations Command took preemptive measures, and managed
to foil the terrorist plot and kill all terrorists, with the exception of Bilal
who was shot in the head. Although Bilal survived, the security command decided
to announce him dead." Umran went on to say that, after receiving treatment in
Baghdad, Bilal was interrogated by the Military Intelligence Department.

Umran says: "Abu-Qabas [Uday Hasan] was closely monitored. His travels to
Al-Jihad neighbourhood, Al-Saydiyah, and Al-Durah were all recorded." He adds
that Bilal's confessions and the footage recorded on Abu-Qabas were all
presented before judicial authorities as well as the commanders of the Baghdad
Operations Command and the Iraqi Army 6th Division. Finally, Umran adds, "the
entire terrorist group was arrested, including Abu-Qabas and Abd-al-Wahab, who
were directly responsible for the assassinations and recruitment of suicide
bombers."

Regarding Hassan Hadi, officer in the new intelligence apparatus in Diyala,
Umran says that "Abu-Qabas' confessions led us to Hassan and his group." As for
the arrestees from Arab nationalities, including two Tunisians and one Saudi
terrorist, Umran says: "The important one among the three is the Saudi person
[Abdallah al-Saydat], because he was responsible for the development of rockets
and smart bombs in Al-Qa'idah. He is an important figure who entered Iraq in
2007, passing through Al-Nukhayb, the Iraqi-Syrian borders in Dayr-al-Zur, the
Abu-Rabi'ah border crossing, and finally Mosul. He later settled in Baghdad
after having married a woman from Mosul and having children with her.

As Hamadi notes that Al-Saydat's confessions show him to be a man of reason and
common sense, Umran comments saying: "This man is from Saudi Arabia. He used to
party and had a substance abuse problem. He was a media figure in Saudi Arabia,
but his near death experience caused by a drug overdose led his family to
outcast him. The problem began when he went to the Al-Nabawi Mosque to repent,
and met Badran and Abu-Uthman who recruited him."

On Harith al-Dari, Umran says that "Harith al-Dari conducted visits to Saudi
Arabia to receive funds, but the money he obtained often went to his own pocket
as he used it to buy private property in Jordan."

As for the two arrested Tunisians, they were recruited through the internet, and
were relocated at their own expense to the Syrian territories, then to Al-Ba'aj
on the Iraqi-Syrian borders. Umran adds that "they were all recruited for
suicide missions, except for Saudi Abdallah al-Saydat who was being prepared to
take a leading post in Al-Qa'idah."

At 1930 GMT, the interview is resumed after the second video report. Umran
explains that by monitoring the movements of one of the terrorists' cars, and
sending their officers to infiltrate the network, security services finally
managed to spot "Abu-KhUdayir," the military commander of Al-Karkh's northern
sector. Umran adds that the arrest took place towards the end of August 2011,
and that within three to four hours, 48 cells members were arrested all across
Baghdad.

Umran adds that all the officers at Al-Amiriyah Criminal Department who
collaborated with the ISI have been referred to the judicial authorities. As for
the terrorists' plan to hinder the government's 100-day plan, Umran says:
"Al-Qa'idah is a takfiri organization whose purpose is to attack the living,
destroy as much as possible of the state equipment and target its employees.
Such plans are not strange to Al-Qa'idah."

Hamadi concludes his episode by noting that this is the first of two episodes
dedicated to the achievements of the 54th Brigade of the 6th Division.

Removed Media Reference:

To access media products visit OpenSource.gov or contact your in house open
source unit.

Source: Al-Iraqiyah TV, Baghdad, in Arabic 1810 gmt 21 Oct 11

LOAD-DATE: October 28, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2011 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              171 of 331 DOCUMENTS


                       BBC Monitoring Europe - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                           October 29, 2011 Saturday

Presidency head condemns US embassy attack, says Bosnia not terrorist country

LENGTH: 911 words


Text of report by Bosnia-Hercegovina Federation public TV, on 28 October

[Interview with Zeljko Komsic, chairman of Bosnian Presidency, by Darjan Babic
in Sarajevo on 28 October - recorded]

Zeljko Komsic, chairman of the B-H Presidency, has strongly condemned the
terrorist attack in Sarajevo. Immediately upon receiving the information about
the attack, Komsic visited the injured police officer. He is currently in the US
Embassy in Sarajevo, but before this he gave an interview for our TV.

[Babic] Mr Komsic, there was a terrorist attack in Sarajevo today, an attack
against the US Embassy in the centre of Sarajevo. How do you comment this?

[Komsic] This attack deserves to be condemned most strongly. I have to say this
was an attack against the Embassy of the United States and the United States
indirectly, but at the same time this was an attack against Bosnia-Hercegovina
and there should be no doubt about this. According to the first information we
received, the attacker is a foreign national, known by the security and police
agencies for some time. This afternoon he committed an attack, wounding one
police officer who has been securing the US Embassy. I have to stress that the
security agencies of Bosnia-Hercegovina and the government institutions are able
to guarantee full safety for US diplomats, all US citizens, and all visitors to
Bosnia-Hercegovina. As far as the security and police agencies in
Bosnia-Hercegovina are concerned, they will have full support in not only
preventing such attacks, but also in disabling relentlessly from the very
beginning all those who even think of doing something like this. I repeat, this
was an attack against the US Embassy, but also against Bosnia-Hercegovina and
all our values and beliefs. Bosnia-Hercegovina is not a terrorist country.
Bosnia-Hercegovina is not a place where individual or organized terrorists will
be able to find haven in the future. We will do everything to prevent this from
happening again.

[Babic] You are the head of the state. After today's terrorist attack, can we
speak about an emergency situation in Bosnia-Hercegovina?

[Komsic] No, this is not something that would create an emergency situation in
the country. But it is vital to give support and make sure that our security
agencies are free to act in line with legislation, and if the legislation needs
to be changed, we will do that too in order to combat terrorism.

[Babic] All agencies are up on their feet, the intelligence service, the
police...

[Komsic] They are doing their job within the powers they have and in line with
the constitution and laws. The police reacted in a timely manner in the
situation in front of the US Embassy. The goal was to catch that man alive in
order to get information whether he acted alone, in an organized action, and
what was the background to this act.

[Babic] Do you have any information about this?

[Komsic] The information that I have are operational information and I cannot
talk about this for logical reasons. Let us leave this for the security,
intelligence, and police agencies.

[Babic] Finally, the director of OSA [Intelligence Security Agency] had warned
already in July 2010 about some 3,000 potential terrorists in
Bosnia-Hercegovina.

[Komsic] This figure was produced by OSA in line with their assessment and
criteria. I can only tell you that Bosnia-Hercegovina is not a terrorist country
and that you can find individuals who are prepared to do something like this out
of their different beliefs all over the world. You saw what happened in Norway,
a country with a highly developed democracy. So, such individuals can appear
anywhere. This is why it is important to investigate whether such acts are
organized, what is the motivation behind them, and do everything so that people
who are detected as a potential threat and terrorists be placed under full
surveillance and they do not get a chance to do something like this. I am not
advocating a police state, but a state of order that will ensure safety for the
citizens of this country, foreign diplomats, and all visitors to this country.
In that sense, OSA and all security and police agencies will have support of the
Presidency of Bosnia-Hercegovina. This is definitely the position of the two
other members of the Presidency, and we will give full support to OSA, SIPA, and
all other police agencies, as we have done so far.

[Babic] What would be your message in the end? There is no reason for fear or
panic?

[Komsic] There is no reason for fear or panic, although this was not pleasant
for anyone. This is not OK. It is not OK that a man can walk with a machine gun
in the middle of the day and shoot around. We were lucky there were no more
casualties.

[Babic] Mr Komsic, did you contact anyone from the US Embassy this evening?

[Komsic] Yes, we have been in touch all the time since the attack. I am leaving
for the US Embassy right now. I am planning to convey a message to the US
ambassador, the embassy staff, the US diplomats, and citizens that we will do
everything to make them feel safe in this country. They are our friends, like
many other friends we have, and it is our human, political, and professional
obligation to protect these people and their families. They must not feel unsafe
in this country.

[Babic] Mr Komsic, thank you very much for this interview for the Federation TV.

[Komsic] You are welcome.

Source: Bosnia-Hercegovina Federation TV, Sarajevo, in Bosnian/Croatian/Serbian
1730 gmt 28 Oct 11

LOAD-DATE: October 29, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2011 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              172 of 331 DOCUMENTS


                       BBC Monitoring Europe - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                           October 29, 2011 Saturday

Bosnian politicians united in condemning terror attack on US Embassy - TV

LENGTH: 420 words


Text of report by Bosnia-Hercegovina Federation public TV, on 28 October

[Report by unidentified correspondent in Sarajevo on 28 October - recorded]

We have received the first reactions after the attack. Everyone unanimously
condemned the attack. Federation President Zivko Budimir condemned the attack
against the US Embassy and said this was a terrorist act demonstrating an
increase in terrorism around the world. Bosnia-Hercegovina must take all
measures to condemn terrorism. Both the SDP [Social Democratic Party], and the
People's Party for Progress Through Labour strongly condemned this attack.

[Unidentified correspondent] The B-H Ministry of Security strongly condemns the
attack against the US Embassy. A member of this ministry, working on securing
the US Embassy building, was injured on this occasion. This is a strike against
the institutions and security of Bosnia-Hercegovina.

Bakir Izetbegovic, member of the state Presidency, condemned the attack and
expected urgent investigation of this demented act by relevant bodies,
Izetbegovic's press release reads.

The Federation Government considered this act to be an attack against peace in
B-H. The United States has been our true friend and the Federation Government is
convinced that this cowardly act cannot threaten the friendly relations. The
Government will take all measures for this case to be investigated, Federation
Prime Minister Nermin Niksic has said.

The SDA [Party of Democratic Action] said this act was a direct attack against
the friendly US nation, who have demonstrated their friendship with
Bosnia-Hercegovina in the most difficult times. We demand the perpetrators,
associates, and the people who ordered this criminal attack to be identified and
charged as soon as possible.

Fahrudin Radoncic, leader of the SBB [Alliance for Better Future], said this
terrorist act was not only an attack against the United States, but also against
Bosnia-Hercegovina. Sarajevo has had the historical misfortune of being a
frequent target of monstrous radicals guided by nationalistic ideas or different
forms of religious fundamentalism.

After the attack against the US Embassy in Sarajevo, Haris Silajdzic, leader of
the Party for B-H, said no matter who stood behind this mad act, this was a
shooting against our friends and Bosnia-Hercegovina.

The Party of Democratic Union [as heard] said these acts had the objective of
sowing terror, fear, and panic.

Source: Bosnia-Hercegovina Federation TV, Sarajevo, in Bosnian/Croatian/Serbian
1730 gmt 28 Oct 11

LOAD-DATE: October 29, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2011 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              173 of 331 DOCUMENTS


                                   Daily Star

                           October 29, 2011 Saturday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

BRITS BATTER SHARK WITH SURFBOARDS;
Terror as killer beast attacks friends

BYLINE: PAUL ROBINS

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 284 words


TWO brave surfers fought off a killer shark by whacking it with their boards.
Andrew Rollo and Paul Gibson came face-to-face with the huge man-eater as they
waited for a wave 250ft from the shore.

The 10ft beast lunged at the pair and then began thrashing around in a
terrifying attack.

But they managed to fend it off with their boards before surfing to safety.

Andrew, 26, said: "It was thrashing around and I felt very vulnerable.

"But we just kept our eye on the fin and kept our boards in the way.

"If I hadn't had my surfboard then that would have been me."

The pair were surfing with mates at Spey Bay off the Morayshire coast when the
monster struck.

Golf pro Andrew added: "In America or New Zealand you might be wary of sharks,
but it never crossed my mind in Scotland."

Fight He said he felt something brush his leg and then spotted the beast as it
began slamming into his surfboard.

He said: "It was just so unexpected.

Something hit my leg.

"I turned around and two feet away was a fin. Straight away I knew it was a
shark.

"It was right there. It just went round the front of me and then it went over to
my friend." Stonemason Paul, 33, used his surfboard to push the shark back
before making a dash to the shore.

"You don't really have time to think," he said.

"You hear stories of poking a shark in the eye or punching him on the nose, but
you don't really want to start a fight with a shark."

The pair, both from nearby Lossiemouth, escaped uninjured. Experts believe the
shark was a shortfin mako, which are found in oceans around the globe and
occasionally attack humans.

They have been responsible for more than 40 recorded attacks in the past 30
years, including three deaths.

paul.robins@dailystar.co.uk

LOAD-DATE: October 29, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: ¦ KNOCKOUT: Andrew Rollo bravely fought off a 10ft shortfin mako like
this, left
Picture: CASCADE NEWS

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DST


                       Copyright 2011 Express Newspapers
                              All Rights Reserved

                              174 of 331 DOCUMENTS


                            Manchester Evening News

                           October 29, 2011 Saturday

Fire chief warns cuts put public at greater risk of terror attacks' ;
Supermarket sneak who nicked 57 trolleys

BYLINE: Jennifer Williams

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 1176 words


Exclusive

Jennifer Williams

GOVERNMENT cuts will put the public at greater risk from any potential terror
attack, according to the region's new fire boss.

David Acton, chair of Greater Manchester Fire Authority, said the fact urban
areas were having their budget slashed, while some rural areas were not, was
'crazy'.

Coun Acton said Greater Manchester's fire service faced many risks that
neighbouring brigades did not including a 'constant terror threat'.

Now he is demanding a meeting with ministers to discuss the cuts.

Greater Manchester's fire services have been told they will have to slash 9 per
cent from its budget this year while neighbouring Cheshire will actually get a 2
per cent increase.

Coun Acton said: We have industries that rural areas don't have.

Trafford Park is one of the biggest industrial estates in Europe, we have two
massive football clubs and the Trafford Centre all of these are pinch points in
terms of threats and dangers and in terms of terrorist targets.

It just amazes me how they can actually increase shire budgets at the expense of
massively decreasing metropolitan authorities' that need the resources to be
able to protect the public from risk.

Greater Manchester's fire service has already announced plans to close 41 fire
stations and change response times in order to save  £23m by 2014.

It expects to shed 250 firefighter posts in that time.

Matt Colledge, the Tory leader of Trafford council where round-the-clock
firefighters are being cut by one third, the biggest proportion in Greater
Manchester has attacked the savings plan as unfair.

But Coun Acton, who leads Trafford's opposition Labour group and took over as
fire authority chair last month, said he and his colleagues had been placed in
an impossible situation.

He told the M.E.N.: After six weeks in the job I have found that the government
need to hear this.

I will be making direct representations to ministers.

A spokesman for Greater Manchester Fire and Rescue Service said it had nothing
to add to Coun Acton's comments.

Paul Shannon, leader of the fire authority's Lib Dem group, said: "I have told
the Fire Minister to his face that the funding formula is barmy and needs
reviewed.

But Labour's comments on funding cannot be taken seriously, as they have a
history of wasting public money.

Kevin Brown, regional secretary of the Fire Brigades Union, said: To be frank we
welcome the honesty coming from elected members that it's not possible to
deliver the level of service that the public expects with the resources
available.

Paul Fogarty, the FBU's Manchester secretary, added: Brigades like ours are
suffering the greatest funding cuts by the coalition but these are the areas
that have the highest density of population with the greatest need for an
adequately funded fire service.   Exclusive Jennifer Williams GOVERNMENT cuts
will put the public at greater risk from any potential terror attack, according
to the region's new fire boss. David Acton, chair of Greater Manchester Fire
Authority, said the fact urban areas were having their budget slashed, while
some rural areas were not, was 'crazy'. Coun Acton said Greater Manchester's
fire service faced many risks that neighbouring brigades did not including a
'constant terror threat'. Now he is demanding a meeting with ministers to
discuss the cuts. Greater Manchester's fire services have been told they will
have to slash 9 per cent from its budget this year while neighbouring Cheshire
will actually get a 2 per cent increase. Coun Acton said: We have industries
that rural areas don't have. Trafford Park is one of the biggest industrial
estates in Europe, we have two massive football clubs and the Trafford Centre
all of these are pinch points in terms of threats and dangers and in terms of
terrorist targets. It just amazes me how they can actually increase shire
budgets at the expense of massively decreasing metropolitan authorities' that
need the resources to be able to protect the public from risk. Greater
Manchester's fire service has already announced plans to close 41 fire stations
and change response times in order to save  £23m by 2014. It expects to shed 250
firefighter posts in that time. Matt Colledge, the Tory leader of Trafford
council where round-the-clock firefighters are being cut by one third, the
biggest proportion in Greater Manchester has attacked the savings plan as
unfair. But Coun Acton, who leads Trafford's opposition Labour group and took
over as fire authority chair last month, said he and his colleagues had been
placed in an impossible situation. He told the M.E.N.: After six weeks in the
job I have found that the government need to hear this. I will be making direct
representations to ministers. A spokesman for Greater Manchester Fire and Rescue
Service said it had nothing to add to Coun Acton's comments. Paul Shannon,
leader of the fire authority's Lib Dem group, said: "I have told the Fire
Minister to his face that the funding formula is barmy and needs reviewed. But
Labour's comments on funding cannot be taken seriously, as they have a history
of wasting public money. Kevin Brown, regional secretary of the Fire Brigades
Union, said: To be frank we welcome the honesty coming from elected members that
it's not possible to deliver the level of service that the public expects with
the resources available. Paul Fogarty, the FBU's Manchester secretary, added:
Brigades like ours are suffering the greatest funding cuts by the coalition but
these are the areas that have the highest density of population with the
greatest need for an adequately funded fire service.   PLUS Part one of our
features on National Adoption Week   swiping one of the trolleys from Tesco
Express in Fallowfield before calmly loading it into his Transit van. Police
searched his address in Longford Road, North Reddish, and found 51 trolleys for
milk and general goods. A further six were in the vehicle. The total value of
the trolleys was  £5,500. Rainey was hauled before Manchester magistrates and
pleaded guilty to theft. He claimed he had found all the trolleys in the street
and was using them to help his ex-partner, who had a business, move goods
around. He said he had simply been too lazy' to return them. But Alan
Richardson, prosecuting, said: In the view of the Crown his explanation is
beyond belief. The court heard how all the trolleys had been returned to the
supermarkets from which they were stolen. Joanne Watson, defending, said Rainey
who suffered from depression and diabetes had not committed the offences for
commercial gain. Rainey himself told the bench: My ex-partner has three shops
and I used them to transport goods from warehouses and cash and carry places. I
had no intention of keeping the trolleys or selling them. Rainey admitted he had
been a lazy a**e' for not doing anything about the trolleys in his yard. But he
claimed his diabetes medication left him tired to the point of falling asleep'.
Rainey who was yesterday back at the flat where he had stored the stolen
trolleys will be sentenced on November 3.

LOAD-DATE: October 29, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: FUNDINGWARNING Coun David Acton
CHECKITOUT The haul of trolleys in Rainey's back yard

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2011 Manchester Evening News
                              All Rights Reserved

                              175 of 331 DOCUMENTS


                       BBC Monitoring Europe - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                            October 30, 2011 Sunday

Bosnia: Sarajevo officials condemn terror attack on US embassy

LENGTH: 243 words


Text of report by Bosnia-Hercegovina Federation public TV, on 28 October

[Announcer-read report with statements by Sarajevo Canton Prime Minister Fikret
Music; Sarajevo Canton Interior Minister Muhamed Budimlic; and Jasmin Idrizovic,
head of Sarajevo's Uniformed Police, in Sarajevo on 28 October - recorded]

The police are continuing to work and the police report [on the terrorist attack
against the US Embassy in Sarajevo] is becoming bigger and bigger. Let us hear
some reactions.

[Music] The persons [as heard] were arrested, but what they did was not only a
terrorist act against the US Embassy in Sarajevo, but also an attack on
Sarajevo, an attack against peace. This was probably an organized and planned
act, but the investigative bodies will say whether I was right in saying this or
not.

[Budimlic] What a difficult day for Sarajevo and Bosnia-Hercegovina! This was an
evident terrorist act, an attack against the US Embassy in the centre of
Sarajevo, which should be condemned strongly. This deserves a re-examining of
the overall security system.

[Idrizovic] We engaged our special unit. The SIPA [State Information and
Protection Agency] came, as securing the US Embassy was within their
jurisdiction. These units acted jointly and managed to neutralize, in line with
legislation, the person who was shooting at the embassy and the citizens of
Sarajevo.

Source: Bosnia-Hercegovina Federation TV, Sarajevo, in Bosnian/Croatian/Serbian
1730 gmt 28 Oct 11

LOAD-DATE: October 30, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2011 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              176 of 331 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring Middle East - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                            October 31, 2011 Monday

Syrian "terrorists" attack ambulances in Homs - state news agency

LENGTH: 147 words


Text of report in English by state-run Syrian news agency SANA website

["Armed terrorist groups attack ambulances and medical crews" - SANA headline]

Homs, (SANA) - Armed terrorist groups on Sunday [30 October] attacked ambulances
and assaulted medical crews in Homs to prevent them from transporting injured
people.

Ambulance driver Raafat Musa told the Syrian TV that while he was transporting
injured people from Bab Amru area along with Chief Warrant Officer Mahmud
Qmairu, they came under heavy gunfire from armed terrorist groups, martyring
Qmairu.

In turn, ambulance driver Ahed Nemra said that while carrying out his duties,
gunmen opened fire on his ambulance before reaching the Health Directorate
traffic light, adding that the attackers were in a Kia Rio that had been
pursuing them since they were in al-Qusur area.

Source: SANA news agency website, Damascus in English 31 Oct 11

LOAD-DATE: October 31, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2011 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              177 of 331 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring South Asia - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                           November 2, 2011 Wednesday

Recent terrorist attack in Kabul reveals weaknesses of US, Afghan troops - paper

LENGTH: 436 words


Text of editorial entitled: "Kabul attack and depth of security flaws" by
independent Afghan newspaper Cheragh on 31 October

At least 13 US troops were killed in a suicide attack in the capital city of
Afghanistan precisely a day after the US Defence Department's report assessing
the ability of terrorists to conduct operations in different parts of
Afghanistan.

The US forces were attacked by a suicide bomber using a simple method on
Saturday [29 October]. If we take a look at the nature of the attack and
security precautions taken by foreign forces, it will become apparent that
compared to the attack on the US embassy and the NATO headquarters in Kabul, the
terrorists used a very simple method to attack the US forces. The attack was a
bouquet of flowers for the head of the CIA and the US defence secretary. While
the US is deploying its forces in the borders areas between Afghanistan and
Pakistan, its forces are being killed in groups by terrorists in Kabul and its
surroundings. This calls into question the security precautions by these two
institutions.

The United States accused Pakistan's ISI of supporting the Haqqani network
during the attack on the US embassy by a group of terrorists.

There is no doubt that Pakistan and especially the ISI are main supporters of
terrorism and they use terrorism as a key policy instrument. However, in order
to cover and justify their own weaknesses, the Americans are also blaming others
and holding others responsible. Instead of identifying their own weaknesses and
ensuring better security for themselves and the citizens of Afghanistan, they
portray the enemy as important to hide their own weaknesses. The US secretary of
state said last week that the attack on the US embassy in Kabul was a response
by the Haqqani network to Washington's peace talks with this group. We shall
have to wait and see as to what this attack was a response to. US officials may
reveal this later.

No matter how they justify this attack and who they hold responsible, the
Americans can no longer cover their security weaknesses and the weakness of
Afghanistan's intelligence agency. This attack showed that despite the passage
of more than a decade of the war on terror, military apparatuses and commanders
continue to make major mistakes and open the gate for terrorists to stage bloody
manoeuvres.

Such successful brutal incidents also expose the weakness of the large
intelligence agency of the country. They reveal its inability to penetrate
terrorist decision-making and command circles and foil attacks before they are
carried out.

Source: Cheragh, Kabul, in Dari 31 Oct 11 p 2

LOAD-DATE: November 2, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2011 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              178 of 331 DOCUMENTS


                       BBC Monitoring Europe - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                           November 3, 2011 Thursday

Norwegian premier thanks Nordic states for support following terror attacks

LENGTH: 383 words


Text of report by Danish leading privately-owned independent newspaper Politiken
website, on 31 October

[Report by Marie Hjortdal: "Stoltenberg in Denmark: thank you for the
consideration"]

The support from Denmark and the rest of the Nordic countries made a difference
to Norway after the massacre in Utoya in the summer of 2011.

So said Norwegian Prime Minister Jens Stoltenberg at a joint news conference
with Danish Prime Minister Helle Thorning-Schmidt (Social Democrats).

"The sympathy and consideration that came from Denmark, Sweden, Finland and the
remaining Nordic countries were very strong - and I would very much like to give
thanks for the warm consideration that we have received from many Nordic
countries," Stoltenberg said.

The Utoya Massacre Will Mark Meetings

Thorning-Schmidt today received Stoltenberg as the first Nordic government
leader she has received. The two had a working lunch ahead of the Nordic
Council's meeting in Copenhagen in the next few days [ 1-3 November].

The massacre in Utoya is also having an effect on the meetings, Stoltenberg
says.

"It (shooting by Anders Breivik in Utoya - editor) will be a part of our
identity and of our history. It is therefore an important part of Nordic
cooperation too."

Among other things, the prime ministers from the Nordic countries will discuss
how the countries can cooperate on threats against society.

Glad of Thorning-Schmidt as Prime Minister

"It is entirely possible to unite the wish for openness in society with the wish
for safety. To have considered combating terror and creating security in society
is not the opposite of creating freedom and openness - on the contrary.

One of the topics that we will discuss at the meeting of the Nordic Council of
Ministers is therefore whether we can cooperate, for example, on combating
terror and at the same time preserve our open and safe society," Stoltenberg
says.

He himself comes from the Norwegian counterpart to the Social Democrats - the
Labour Party - and he is happy that a Social Democrat has now moved into the
Danish Prime Minister's Office.

"Thorning-Schmidt and I have contact and cooperation as Social Democratic party
leaders. That brings an extra dimension to the cooperation, which I value,"
Stoltenberg says.

Source: Politiken website, Copenhagen, in Danish 31 Oct 11

LOAD-DATE: November 3, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2011 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              179 of 331 DOCUMENTS


                       BBC Monitoring Europe - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                           November 3, 2011 Thursday

Bosnian police arrest third man for links with terror attack on US embassy

LENGTH: 233 words


Text of report by Bosnian wide-circulation privately-owned daily Dnevni avaz, on
3 November

[By M. Dedic: "Seherzad Saric arrested in Bihac for links with terrorists"]

Members of the unit for support of the Una-Sana Canton [USK] Interior Ministry,
together with investigators from the Federal Police Administration, today raided
an apartment in the Harmani Street No 9 in Bihac, which is the residence of
Seherzad Saric (25) and his mother Aseda.

This man is linked to already detained Dino Pecenkovic, who together with Munib
Ahmetspahic on Friday, 28 October, drove Mevlid Jasarevic from Gornja Maoca to
Sarajevo.

We have learnt that the police confiscated the hard disc from Saric's home
computer, and he was then taken for interrogation to the USK Interior Ministry.

This operation by the Federal Police Administration in Bihac is part of the
comprehensive investigation into the terrorist attack on the US Embassy in
Sarajevo.

Aseda, the mother of arrested Seherzad Saric, told us that her son's "only
mistake" was to be in a photograph "he should not have been in."

A year and a half ago, after the big police operation in Gornja Maoca, police
officers also came to see Saric, most likely for the same reason - photographs
of Seherzad Saric together with Dino Pecenkovic - but they only conducted an
interview with him at that time.

Source: Dnevni avaz, Sarajevo, in Bosnian/Croatian/Serbian 3 Nov 11

LOAD-DATE: November 3, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2011 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              180 of 331 DOCUMENTS


                            Manchester Evening News

                           November 3, 2011 Thursday

Baby's pram rolls over in park attack terror

BYLINE: Paul Britton

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 253 words


With CCTV.

By Paul Britton.

A PRAM with a three-month-old baby boy inside toppled over as masked robbers
snatched his grandmother's handbag while they walked through a park.

Police have released shocking CCTV footage of the attack.

The little boy, who was strapped into the pram, escaped unhurt.

The boy's mother, aged 33, was carrying shopping bags while his 56-year-old
grandmother was pushing the pram.

They were returning home from Bolton town centre and in Bobby Heywood's Park at
the time.

Two teenage thugs ran up behind them before the grandmother felt a sharp blow to
the back of her head.

Police said she screamed and fell to the floor, causing the pram to topple over
onto its side, as the men grabbed at her handbag before running off.

The robbery occurred at 4pm on October 15 but police have only just released
details.

The men are white, around 6ft 2, thin and aged in their late teens.

Both had their faces covered with hoods.

Det Insp Stuart Wilkinson said: These were the actions of two desperate
individuals who had no regard whatsoever for these two women or the young baby
they were with.

As you can see from the CCTV, it is lucky that the baby was strapped into the
pram and wasn't injured during this robbery.

It was late afternoon and there would have been people out and about at this
time. If you saw anyone running away from the area, or if you saw two men
hanging around this area that fit the descriptions given, please give us a call.

Call police in Bolton on 0161 856 5599 or Crimestoppers on 0800 555 111.

LOAD-DATE: November 3, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2011 Manchester Evening News
                              All Rights Reserved

                              181 of 331 DOCUMENTS


                            Manchester Evening News

                           November 3, 2011 Thursday

Baby's pram rolls over in park attack terror

BYLINE: Paul Britton

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 253 words


With CCTV.

By Paul Britton.

A PRAM with a three-month-old baby boy inside toppled over as masked robbers
snatched his grandmother's handbag while they walked through a park.

Police have released shocking CCTV footage of the attack.

The little boy, who was strapped into the pram, escaped unhurt.

The boy's mother, aged 33, was carrying shopping bags while his 56-year-old
grandmother was pushing the pram.

They were returning home from Bolton town centre and in Bobby Heywood's Park at
the time.

Two teenage thugs ran up behind them before the grandmother felt a sharp blow to
the back of her head.

Police said she screamed and fell to the floor, causing the pram to topple over
onto its side, as the men grabbed at her handbag before running off.

The robbery occurred at 4pm on October 15 but police have only just released
details.

The men are white, around 6ft 2, thin and aged in their late teens.

Both had their faces covered with hoods.

Det Insp Stuart Wilkinson said: These were the actions of two desperate
individuals who had no regard whatsoever for these two women or the young baby
they were with.

As you can see from the CCTV, it is lucky that the baby was strapped into the
pram and wasn't injured during this robbery.

It was late afternoon and there would have been people out and about at this
time. If you saw anyone running away from the area, or if you saw two men
hanging around this area that fit the descriptions given, please give us a call.

Call police in Bolton on 0161 856 5599 or Crimestoppers on 0800 555 111.

LOAD-DATE: November 15, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2011 Manchester Evening News
                              All Rights Reserved

                              182 of 331 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                      November 4, 2011 Friday 6:30 AM GMT

Algerian refugee 'in first global flying ban to UK over terror plot fears';
An Algerian man granted refugee status in Britain has been banned from flying
over its airspace because of concerns that he was plotting a terrorist attack,
it has emerged.

BYLINE: By Andrew Hough

LENGTH: 397 words


In an unprecedented move, Whitehall officials ordered airlines across the world
to prevent Reda Taher Nasouf from boarding any aircraft bound for Britain.

It is believed to be the first time such a draconian global ban has been invoked
in order to prevent a terrorist suspect from flying to this country.

The suspect has reportedly already lived in Britain as a refugee but it is
alleged he returned to North Africa to plot an alleged atrocity. It is said he
was preparing to return to Britain imminently.

The exact details of his refugee status remains unclear and it was not known
when or where he resided in this country.

But newspaper reports on Friday suggested intelligence chiefs had been
investigating the suspect for several months.

Amid fears he was plotting a terrorist attack over Britain, Department of
Transport officials issued the emergency ban under the Aviation Security Act
1982.

It was approved by the UK Border Agency, which will on Friday launch a bid to
revoke his refugee visa. Officials confirmed to The Daily Telegraph that such a
ban had been placed on Nasouf.

A Home Office spokesman would not "comment on individual cases" but he added:
"We make no apologies for refusing people access to the UK if we believe they
represent a threat.

"Coming here is a privilege we refuse to extend to those who seek to subvert our
values."

Another security source told the Daily Mirror: "This is the first time a global
ban has been issued on the strength of a suspicion a plot might take place.

"It is about disrupting something in the planning stages before it becomes a
risk to British citizens and it was not done without careful consideration."

Under section 14 (3) of the Act, ministers are able to direct any airline
operating in Britain to implement "any measure necessary to counter any threat
to aviation".

It adds that such a direction "may be either of a general or of a specific
character, and may require any measures specified in the direction to be taken
at such time or within such period as may be so specified".

A Transport Department spokesman also declined to comment. British airline
bosses have been told not to discuss the ban.

The security alert threat level remains at "substantial" meaning a terror attack
in the UK was a "strong possibility".

It is not known where in Nigeria Nasouf is currently residing. He could not be
reached for comment.

LOAD-DATE: December 21, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTNS


                  Copyright 2011 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              183 of 331 DOCUMENTS


                                 Sunday Express

                                November 6, 2011
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

The forgotten victims of Lockerbie atrocity;
As a new television drama about Pan Am and its glamorous air hostesses hits our
screens, Ben Borland talks to some of the families of the crew who perished in
the terrorist attack

BYLINE: Ben Borland

SECTION: FEATURES; Pg. 64,65

LENGTH: 1249 words


THEY ARE the tragic men and women whose life stories have rarely been told. Well
educated and impeccably trained, they included an aspiring actress, a former
Miss France, a painter and sculptor, a gourmet cook and a woman who had
dedicated her life to children's charities.

Brought together by their love of the skies and the prospect of a glamorous
career with Pan American Airways, they all dreamed of seeing the world but,
ultimately, they were united in death.

The BBC is about to screen a racy new drama about Pan Am pilots and
stewardesses, starring Christina Ricci, but this is the little-known story of
the 16 cabin crew who were killed in the Lockerbie crash, along with all 243
passengers on board the doomed Boeing 747 and 11 people on the ground.

They were a diverse group, including seven Americans, two French women and
others from England, Germany, Spain, Sweden, Finland, the Dominican Republic and
the Philippines.

But despite their international backgrounds, most of the Pan Am employees on the
tiring, but highly sought-after, transatlantic route had homes in either London
or New York. On the evening of December 21, 1988, many were going home to spend
Christmas with their families, while others were planning some last-minute
festive shopping in Manhattan.

Among the victims was pretty Jocelyn Reina, 26, who was in some ways the perfect
example of a Pan 'Jocelyn only wanted to work for Pan Am. She wanted to be the
best and to work for the best' Am stewardess. An academic high-achiever and a
Shakespearean actress from a middle-class family in California, she had yearned
to work for America's flagship airline since she was a little girl.

Speaking from his home in Orange County, in the southern suburbs of Los Angeles,
brother John says that Jocelyn, who also trained at the Vidal Sassoon Academy,
at least "died doing the job she loved".

"It's an amazing story," he says. "We have a tape recording from Jocelyn's 10th
birthday party. She was opening her presents and somebody asked her: 'Now you're
all grown up, what job do you want to do?' Without hesitation, she replied: 'I
want to be a stewardess for Pan Am.' We had forgotten about that tape, it was
just a passing moment in her life but 16 years later she actually went and
joined Pan Am.

"After the bombing we were going through her things and we found the tape. When
we heard her little voice speaking to us from that party everybody just froze,
it was an unbelievable moment."

Jocelyn spent two years learning French in order to get the job with Pan Am, as
all cabin crew had to be fluent in at least two languages.

"She only ever wanted to work for Pan Am," says her brother. "She even took
interviews with other airlines just for the experience. It was America's premier
air carrier and had been since the Thirties when they introduced worldwide
travel. Jocelyn wanted to be the best, so she wanted to work for the best.

"Everybody who worked for the airline regarded each other as family, and
although Jocelyn had only been doing the job for a little over a year when she
died she absolutely loved it. She met a lot of wonderful people in England and
she wanted to live in London. She also loved Scotland and visited there several
times. It was a cruel irony that she died in the skies above Scotland."

John, now 56 and a father-of-six, believes that his sister may have been
bringing him an unusual Scottish Christmas gift when she was murdered.

He says: "I would get postcards from all over the world, usually with one liners
from Monty Python written on them. She had a tremendous sense of humour. When
Jocelyn died she was coming home for Christmas and as we are an Italian family,
we always had an Italian dish as well as our turkey dinner. She was always
teasing me that she was going to bring me a haggis."

John believes the Pan Am television drama, with plotlines featuring numerous
affairs and CIA intrigue, has "sensationalised" the reality. "It was nothing
like that in the Eighties when Jocelyn was there," he says. "There were very
strict rules on conduct and fraternisation, Pan Am was an incredibly strict
organisation.

"It doesn't show how hard it was to get up at 4am, arrive at the airport looking
absolutely pristine, serve people for 12 hours on a flight and then get off the
plane looking as nice and crisp and fresh as when you stepped on board."

Five thousand miles away, in Norway's capital Oslo, another brother reflects on
how the loss of his own sister devastated an entire family.

Irja Skabo, 38, was an experienced stewardess and often worked in the first
class cabin. A former international cross country skier, she was a ski
instructor to disabled children in her spare time and had been planning to quit
to spend more time with her husband, Bjoern, and their son Kevin, seven.

"She was very glamorous but very down to earth," says Jorgen Skabo, 62. "She
took her younger sister, Ingerid, on flights all around the world when she was a
child. That was fantastic for her.

"I remember she took me to New York one time and we went for dinner with all
these high society people, including an Olympic medal-winning speed skater. The
way she died was awful. She was going 'My father was devastated. He never got
over Irja's murder and died eight years later' to New York to buy Christmas
presents. I was in Brussels the same night and I was called in my motel by my
youngest sister. I was able to watch it on the BBC. The family has never got
over her death, really. My father was devastated. He never got over her murder
and he died eight years later."

OTHER CREW members on Flight 103 included Captain James MacQuarrie, the
55-year-old pilot, who had thousands of hours' flying experience; flight
attendant Paul Garret, 41, from California, a gourmet cook, oil painter and
free-form sculptor; Swede Siv Engstrom, 51, fluent in five languages and a
student of Chinese philosophy; Noelle Berti, 41, a former Miss France from
Paris; and Stacie Franklin, the youngest crew member to die, at 20.

Also on board were Elisabeth Avoyone, 44, who was known as Babette and described
by colleagues as a "chic and charming Frenchwoman"; Elke Kuhne, 43, from
Germany, who was an 18-year Pan Am veteran; Spaniard Maria Larrocoechea, 39,
from Madrid, who was a four-time winner of the Inflight Service Recognition
Award and Lilibeth Macalolooy, 27, from the Philippines, a former make-up
consultant and aerobics instructor.

Making up the rest of the crew that fateful night were Myra Royal, 30, who
joined Pan Am a few months before Lockerbie, and Junior Purser Milutin
Velimirovich, 35, who was training to become a Pan Am pilot. Ray Wagner, 52, and
Jerry Avritt, 46, were also on the flight deck, and the Senior Purser was Mary
Murphy, 51, from Twickenham, with degrees in grief counselling and social
psychology.

Robert Martin, a former Pan Am colleague, said in a moving tribute that she had
been a mentor, teacher and friend to the younger crew members.

He said: "Mary taught me everything there was to know about being a flight
attendant. Always a smile, always a kind word and never failed with her British
sense of humour as well.

"I also knew Stacie Franklin very well, and it broke my heart to lose two dear
friends on that flight. To this day, I cannot look at pictures of what happened.
I am still in shock after all these years."

'My father was devastated. He never got over Irja's murder and died eight years
later'

'Jocelyn only wanted to work for Pan Am. She wanted to be the best and to work
for the best'

LOAD-DATE: November 6, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: HORROR: The remains of Pan Am 103's flight deck
IRJA: Had been planning to quit the airline
SIV: Fluent in five languages and aged 51
NOELLE: Miss France d'Amerique in 1968
JOCELYN: Told her family she wanted to be an air hostess when she was 10

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: SXP


                       Copyright 2011 Express Newspapers
                              All Rights Reserved

                              184 of 331 DOCUMENTS



                         The Evening Standard (London)

                            November 7, 2011 Monday

OPERATION BLACK CHARIOT TO SIMULATE TERRORIST ATTACK

BYLINE: MATTHEW BEARD AND JUSTIN DAVENPORT

LENGTH: 197 words


OLYMPICS chiefs will simulate emergencies at the Games in a three-day training
exercise next month.

"Operation Black Chariot" will involve hundreds of people from government
departments, City Hall, police, security agencies, transport chiefs and the
emergency services.

Key staff will be put on alert at Olympic venues and will spring into action
when informed of an "emergency". The table-top exercise will attempt to recreate
the conditions inside the Olympic control rooms in the event of a major security
threat. It is understood the exercise does not involve a bomb plot, raising the
possibility it will focus on another major terror threat such as a Mumbai-style
attack.

The exercise is designed to test the National Olympic Coordination Centre which
will oversee security during the Games. It is one of several to examine possible
scenarios ranging from suicide bombings to truck bombs and multiple terror
attacks by men armed with automatic weapons.

Full scale "live" exercises involving police and Special Forces on the ground
will take place next spring. The first test, carried out at the August road
cycling test event, was dogged by road congestion and poor radio communication.

LOAD-DATE: November 7, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright  2011   Evening Standard Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              185 of 331 DOCUMENTS



                               Independent.co.uk

                      November 7, 2011 Monday 2:24 AM GMT

'Carlos the Jackal' faces new trial over terrorist attacks in France;
Already serving life for murder, the Venezuelan-born 'revolutionary' will face
court over the 1980s killings

BYLINE: John Lichfield

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 701 words


The "celebrity terrorist" Ilich Ramirez Sanchez - known as "Carlos the Jackal" -
will go on trial for terrorist activities for the first time in Paris today.

The Venezuelan-born Sanchez, 62, who became a symbol of the "cruel but cool"
international terrorism of the 1970s, is already serving life sentences in
France for murdering two policemen and an informer.

Now, for six weeks from today, he will be tried for his alleged role in
organising four terror attacks in France in 1982 and 1983, including an
explosion aboard an express train in which five people died. It will be the
first time that Sanchez, a self-styled "professional international
revolutionary", has been tried for terror activities in an alleged 20-year
career that began with the wounding of the Marks & Spencer boss, Joseph Sieff,
in London in December 1973.

Sanchez was kidnapped from Sudan in 1994 by French intelligence agents and
jailed for life in 1997 for three murders committed in Paris in 1975. The trial
beginning today is the result of a ponderous investigation by French
anti-terrorism magistrates, which included getting hard-won access to the
archives of former Soviet bloc intelligence agencies.

A special assize court in Paris, with seven judges sitting instead of a jury,
will hear evidence that Sanchez planned four terrorist attacks on French soil in
1982-83 in which 11 people were killed.

Prosecutors will say that Sanchez masterminded the four attacks as part of an
attempt to blackmail France into releasing his German wife, Magdalena Kopp, and
a Swiss associate, Bruno Bréguet, who were arrested in Paris in 1982 for
possessing weapons and explosives. The hearings are expected to reveal publicly
for the first time evidence of links between Sanchez and Soviet bloc
intelligence.

The round face and the Che Guevara beret of Carlos the Jackal became the symbol
of a kind of rootless, international terrorism linked to the Palestinian cause
from the mid-1970s. On 21 December, 1975, he led the attack on a meeting in
Vienna of the oil producing cartel Opec in which 70 senior politicians and
officials were taken hostage. This operation is now believed to have been
sponsored by the Libyan leader, Muammar Gaddafi. An attempt by Austria to
extradite Sanchez from France to face charges for the Opec attack was refused by
a French court of appeal in 1999.

The true motivation and ideology of "Carlos" has always been open to doubt - a
confusion encouraged by Sanchez himself. Leaders of the radical Palestinian
cause are reported to have lost patience with his jet-set lifestyle in the late
1980s. He spent some years in the eastern bloc before taking refuge in Syria and
then Sudan.

Even from prison in France over the past 17 years, he has managed to keep alive
his image as an enigmatic charmer. In 2001 he "married" his lawyer Isabelle
Coutant-Peyre, 58, in an Islamic ceremony which has no status under French law.
Ms Coutant-Peyre will be one of two defence lawyers at his trial. His lawyers
are expected to argue that evidence of his involvement in the French attacks is
sparse and based on "unreliable" archives of Soviet intelligence.

Sanchez: his crimes

1970 Takes up the Palestinian cause and joins the Popular Front for the
Liberation of Palestine. He is suspected in several attacks in the early 1970s,
including an attempt on the life of Joseph Sieff, the Jewish chairman of Marks &
Spencer in London.



June 1975 Guns down two French investigators and his former partner - whom he
suspects of being a turncoat - when his Paris apartment is raided. Flees the
scene. He is convicted of the murders in 1997.



December 1975 He leads the six-strong team that storms an Opec conference in
Vienna, taking about 70 hostages and killing three people.



1982 An attack on a train travelling from Toulouse to Paris, killing five
people, is followed by a car bombing outside the Paris offices of an Arab
newspaper, Al-Watan al-Arabi.



1983 Two bomb attacks shake France on New Year's Eve. The first, on a high-speed
train in eastern France, kills three people. Another, in Marseille, kills two.



1994 Ramirez is captured in Sudan by French agents who spirit him back to Paris
in a sack, an episode he refers to as his "kidnapping".

LOAD-DATE: November 10, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication


                  Copyright 2011 Independent News & Media plc
                              All Rights Reserved

                              186 of 331 DOCUMENTS



                            The Independent (London)

                            November 7, 2011 Monday
                                 First Edition

'Carlos the Jackal' faces new trial over terrorist attacks in France;
Already serving life for murder, the Venezuelan-born 'revolutionary' will face
court over 1980s killings

BYLINE: JOHN LICHFIELD in Paris

SECTION: WORLD; Pg. 32

LENGTH: 700 words


The "celebrity terrorist" Ilich Ramirez Sanchez - known as "Carlos the Jackal" -
will go on trial for terrorist activities for the first time in Paris today.

The Venezuelan-born Sanchez, 62, who became a symbol of the "cruel but cool"
international terrorism of the 1970s, is already serving life sentences in
France for murdering two policemen and an informer.

Now, for six weeks from today, he will be tried for his alleged role in
organising four terror attacks in France in 1982 and 1983, including an
explosion aboard an express train in which five people died. It will be the
first time that Sanchez, a self-styled "professional international
revolutionary", has been tried for terror activities in an alleged 20-year
career that began with the wounding of the Marks & Spencer boss, Joseph Sieff,
in London in December 1973.

Sanchez was kidnapped from Sudan in 1994 by French intelligence agents and
jailed for life in 1997 for three murders committed in Paris in 1975. The trial
beginning today is the result of a ponderous investigation by French
anti-terrorism magistrates, which included getting hard-won access to the
archives of former Soviet bloc intelligence agencies.

A special assize court in Paris, with seven judges sitting instead of a jury,
will hear evidence that Sanchez planned four terrorist attacks on French soil in
1982-83 in which 11 people were killed.

Prosecutors will say that Sanchez masterminded the four attacks as part of an
attempt to blackmail France into releasing his German wife, Magdalena Kopp, and
a Swiss associate, Bruno Bréguet, who were arrested in Paris in 1982 for
possessing weapons and explosives. The hearings are expected to reveal publicly
for the first time evidence of links between Sanchez and Soviet bloc
intelligence.

The round face and the Che Guevara beret of Carlos the Jackal became the symbol
of a kind of rootless, international terrorism linked to the Palestinian cause
from the mid-1970s. On 21 December, 1975, he led the attack on a meeting in
Vienna of the oil producing cartel Opec in which 70 senior politicians and
officials were taken hostage. This operation is now believed to have been
sponsored by the Libyan leader, Muammar Gaddafi. An attempt by Austria to
extradite Sanchez from France to face charges for the Opec attack was refused by
a French court of appeal in 1999.

The true motivation and ideology of "Carlos" has always been open to doubt - a
confusion encouraged by Sanchez himself. Leaders of the radical Palestinian
cause are reported to have lost patience with his jet-set lifestyle in the late
1980s. He spent some years in the eastern bloc before taking refuge in Syria and
then Sudan.

Even from prison in France over the past 17 years, he has managed to keep alive
his image as an enigmatic charmer. In 2001 he "married" his lawyer Isabelle
Coutant-Peyre, 58, in an Islamic ceremony which has no status under French law.
Ms Coutant-Peyre will be one of two defence lawyers at his trial. His lawyers
are expected to argue that evidence of his involvement in the French attacks is
sparse and based on "unreliable" archives of Soviet intelligence.

SANCHEZ

HIS CRIMES

1970

Takes up the Palestinian cause and joins the Popular Front for the Liberation of
Palestine. He is suspected in several attacks in the early 1970s, including an
attempt on the life of Joseph Sieff, right, the Jewish chairman of Marks &
Spencer in London.

June 1975

Guns down two French investigators and his former partner - whom he suspects of
being a turncoat - when his Paris apartment is raided. Flees the scene. He is
convicted of the murders in 1997.

December 1975

He leads the six-strong team that storms an Opec conference in Vienna, taking
about 70 hostages and killing three people.

1982

An attack on a train travelling from Toulouse to Paris, killing five people, is
followed by a car bombing outside the Paris offices of an Arab newspaper,
Al-Watan al-Arabi.

1983

Two bomb attacks shake France on New Year's Eve. The first, on a high-speed
train in eastern France, kills three people. Another, in Marseille, kills two.

1994

Ramirez is captured in Sudan by French agents who spirit him back to Paris in a
sack, an episode he refers to as his "kidnapping".

LOAD-DATE: November 6, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: IA


                      Copyright 2011 Independent Print Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                              187 of 331 DOCUMENTS


                      Western Morning News (Plymouth, UK)

                            November 7, 2011 Monday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

Carlos the Jackal to face new trial over terrorist attacks

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 70 words


Venezuelan international terrorist Carlos the Jackal, whose real name is Ilich
Ramirez Sanchez, is pictured in a Paris courtroom. Once among the world''s most
feared masterminds of terror, the man known as Carlos the Jackal is now a
greying convict serving out a life sentence that may get longer after he meets
his judges in a new trial over the deaths of 11 people in four attacks on French
soil nearly three decades ago.

LOAD-DATE: November 7, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: WMN


                 Copyright 2011 Western Morning News (Plymouth)
                              All Rights Reserved

                              188 of 331 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring Middle East - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                            November 8, 2011 Tuesday

"Terrorist armed group" attacks state offices in Syria's Idlib

LENGTH: 177 words


Text of report in English by state-run Syrian news agency SANA website

["Terrorist Armed Group in Kafar Takharim Storms into State Offices" - SANA
headline]

Idlib, Homs,11 Nov (SANA) - A terrorist armed group in Kafar Takharim City in
Idlib on Tuesday stormed into several state offices, destroyed their furniture
and stole them.

A source at Idlib Police Command said that the terrorist group stormed into the
police station, the recruitment centre, the bakery in addition to Emran and
fodder institutions, as they destroyed the furniture and stole the computers.

Terrorist gangs have been committing different sorts of crimes in Kafar Takharim
for four weeks including blocking roads, burning tires and forcing residents to
close markets.

In Homs, SANA correspondent refuted the news broadcast by the misleading TV
channels about opening fire in Tal Kalakh town in Homs.

"The news items broadcast are untrue and fabricated, as they aim at spreading
chaos and horrifying residents," the correspondent said.

Source: SANA news agency website, Damascus in English 8 Nov 11

LOAD-DATE: November 8, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2011 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              189 of 331 DOCUMENTS



                               Belfast Telegraph

                            November 8, 2011 Tuesday
                                 First Edition

Court is shown graphic footage of terrorist attack on soldiers who died in hail
of bullets

BYLINE: DEBORAH McALEESE, CRIME CORRESPONDENT, dmcaleese@belfasttelegraph.co.uk

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 629 words


GRAPHIC footage of the terrorist attack at Massereene Army barracks, during
which two soldiers were shot dead by masked gunmen, has been played during the
trial of the men accused of their murders.

Prominent republicans Colin Duffy and Brian Shivers went on trial yesterday for
the murders of Sappers Patrick Azimkar (21) and Mark Quinsey (23) on March 7,
2009. The court was told while evidence was not being presented to say that
Duffy (43), of Forest Glade in Lurgan, or Shivers (46), of Sperrin Mews,
Magherafelt, had fired the shots, they had been willingly involved in a joint
enterprise to murder members of the security forces.

Sappers Azimkar and Quinsey were shot dead by real IRA gunmen just hours before
they were due to fly to Afghanistan for a tour of duty.

Around 65 shots were fired during the ambush at the Antrim Army base. Two pizza
delivery men, three other soldiers and a civilian MOD security guard were also
injured during the attack.

The families of Sappers Azimkar and Quinsey travelled from England to attend the
first day of the trial yesterday at Antrim Crown Court, just a short distance
from the scene of the shooting.

As the non-jury trial opened before Judge Mr Justice Hart, prosecution barrister
Terence Mooney QC played CCTV footage showing a group of soldiers dressed in
desert combat gear, walk out of the base to collect pizzas they had ordered from
a pizza delivery in the town.

Two masked men appeared and opened fire on the soldiers and pizza delivery men,
before speeding away in a green Vauxhall car.

A clip of a voice message said to have been accidentally left on a mobile phone
found in the alleged getaway vehicle, was also played to the court.

In the clip, a male voice can be heard saying: "There were a few dead alright."
Another male voice says: "Have to say boys you were as cool as f***."

Mr Mooney told the court this was a "surprising and murderous attack carried out
by terrorists using automatic assault rifles".

He added that the attack was planned in advance and that the conspirators
observed the movements of the soldiers over a period of time.

The court was told that DNA evidence linked Duffy and Shivers to the getaway car
which had been found abandoned seven miles away from the scene of the murders.

Mr Mooney said that an attempt to destroy the car by burning it out was
"bungled" and that the pair had left traces of DNA behind.

Duffy's DNA was allegedly found on the tip of a latex glove and on a seat belt.

Shiver's DNA is claimed to have been discovered on a mobile phone found inside
the car and on two matches found outside the vehicle.

A coffee jar filled with ammunition, two mobile phones and a "terrorist-kit"
made up of camouflage trousers, jackets and balaclavas were discovered in the
car.

A firearms expert linked the ammunition discovered in the car with the bullets
found at the scene, Mr Mooney told the court.

The two guns used in the attack have not been recovered.

Mr Mooney said that Duffy's and Shivers' presence in the get-away car means that
they "either assisted in the attack or they joined that enterprise knowing that
an attack was planned".

He said this was a case of "joint enterprise", where Duffy and Shivers knew that
the "principals" in the attack were planning to kill or cause serious injury to
victims.

"The object of the conspiracy was to kill members of the security forces.

"Those linked to the car must have knowingly participated in the plan to murder
soldiers," he added.

The case is expected to last for at least five weeks.

BACKGROUND

Soldiers Patrick Azimkar, from London, and Mark Quinsey, from Birmingham, were
ambushed by the Real IRA outside Massereene Army barracks on March 7, 2009.
High-profile republicans Colin Duffy and Brian Shivers are on trial for murder
and attempted murder.

LOAD-DATE: November 8, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: BT


                Copyright 2011 Belfast Telegraph Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              190 of 331 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring Middle East - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                           November 9, 2011 Wednesday

Three killed in terrorist attack on Iranian pilgrims in Iraq

LENGTH: 82 words


Text of report in English by Iranian conservative news agency Mehr

Tehran, 9 November: In a terrorist attack on a bus carrying Iranian pilgrims in
Samarra, Iraq, three Iranian pilgrims were martyred and seven others injured, an
official from Iran's Shahid (Martyr) Foundation announced on Wednesday.

"In a bomb explosion which targeted the bus of Iranian pilgrims, three Iranians
were martyred and seven injured," Nader Nasiri told IRNA.

Source: Mehr news agency, Tehran, in English 1605 gmt 9 Nov 11

LOAD-DATE: November 9, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2011 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              191 of 331 DOCUMENTS


                                  Daily Record

                          November 9, 2011, Wednesday

I TRIED TO GRAB HIS BALACLAVA ..THEN FELT BLOOD ON MY NECK;
LAW CHIEF TELLS COURT OF TERROR KNIFE ATTACK IN LANE

BYLINE: Dave Finlay

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 23

LENGTH: 286 words


A TOP law chief told a jury yesterday how he struggled with a masked knifeman
who attacked him in a darkened lane.

Leslie Cumming, 68, said he grabbed the man's balaclava and tried to pull it
off.

He said he then felt "warm blood" running down his neck - and realised he was
being struck with a blade.

Leslie was deputy chief executive of the Law Society of Scotland at the time.

He was giving evidence at the trial of Robert Graham, 46, who denies attempted
murder.

Leslie told how he was confronted by a dark-clad man near his Edinburgh home
after returning from a training day and parking his car.

He said he saw "a circle of pale face" coming at him.

"Nothing was said," he added.

"As he reached towards me I tried to knock his hand away with my right hand and
grasped the balaclava with my left hand."

Leslie said he was struck on side of the face and lost his on the balaclava,
then felt blood on his neck.

He went on:"I could feel the warm blood. I realised this was a very serious
matter, dangerous and life-threatening goodness knows how it was going to turn
out." Leslie said he lost his balance and then felt a pounding on his back - a
"tattoo of blows".

He went home after the attack, thinking "what was that about?" and told his wife
to call police and an ambulance.

There was "blood everywhere", he recalled. Medics told him he would have two
teams of surgeons - one for the wounds on his body and one for his facial scars.

Leslie said that at the time of the attack in January 2006, he ran a Law Society
team who checked that solicitors were obeying rules on accounts.

He agreed his job sometimes involved taking disciplinary measures or giving
information to police. The trial at the High Court in Edinburgh continues.

LOAD-DATE: November 9, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: co.uk SCARRED J Leslie said 'blood was everywhere' after the attack

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


            Copyright 2011 Scottish Daily Record & Sunday Mail Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              192 of 331 DOCUMENTS


                       BBC Monitoring Africa - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                           November 10, 2011 Thursday

AU condemns terrorist attacks in Nigeria

LENGTH: 204 words


Text of report in English by state-owned Ethiopian news agency ENA website

Addis Ababa, 9 November: The African Union Commission chairperson, Dr Jean Ping,
was shocked and deeply disturbed to learn of the bomb and gun attacks carried
out by terrorists in the northeastern Nigerian town of Damaturu, leaving over
one hundred people dead and dozens wounded, in one of the bloodiest terrorist
act witnessed in the country to date.

The Chairperson condemns in the strongest terms these mindless criminal acts and
senseless violence, which cannot be justified under any circumstances, according
to press release AU sent to ENA [Ethiopian News Agency] on Wednesday [9
November].

The chairperson expresses his most sincere condolences to the families of the
victims and to the government of Nigeria, and wishes those wounded a speedy
recovery.

Once again, the chairperson reaffirms the African Union's total rejection of
terrorism, and its determination to combat its scourge in accordance with the
relevant AU and international instruments.

In this respect, he called on the government of Nigeria to spare no efforts in
bringing those responsible for this horrific attack to justice.

Source: ENA website, Addis Ababa, in English 9 Nov 11

LOAD-DATE: November 10, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2011 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              193 of 331 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring South Asia - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                           November 10, 2011 Thursday

Bangladesh on alert after reports of possible terror attacks in capital - paper

LENGTH: 241 words


Text of unattributed report headlined "High Alert on LeT Threat" published by
Bangladesh newspaper The Daily Star website on 10 November

Law enforcers are on high alert after the government received information that
Pakistan-based militant outfit Lashkar-i-Toiba may attack Dhaka and Chittagong
today.

Sources said security agencies are on high alert across the country since
Tuesday [8 November] after an intelligence agency forwarded to other agencies
information about possible bomb attacks.

Talking to The Daily Star, at least three deputy commissioners [DC] of Dhaka
Metropolitan Police and a top official of Rapid Action Battalion said they
received alert messages from their high-ups on Tuesday.

According to the DCs, they were asked to be alert and keep intense vigilance as
the militant organisation might carry out bomb attacks in the capital and the
port city.

Inspector General of Police Hassan Mahmood Khandker, however, denied any
militant threat as well as the country being on high alert. He said his law
enforcers and intelligence units are always alert and are capable of handling
any situation.

Lt Col Ziaul Ahsan, director of Intelligence of Rab, said he heard about the
threat but he himself did not receive any alarming messages.

However, Ziaul said, "We often receive information regarding threats or attacks
but we have to verify whether the information is right or wrong."

Source: The Daily Star website, Dhaka, in English 10 Nov 11

LOAD-DATE: November 10, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2011 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              194 of 331 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring Middle East - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                           November 10, 2011 Thursday

Bodies of Iranians killed in "terrorist attack" in Iraq to arrive 10 November

LENGTH: 245 words


Text of report in English by Iranian official government news agency IRNA
website

Qasr-e-Shirian, 10 November: Commander General of Qasr-e-Shirin said here
Wednesday [9 November] pure bodies of three Iranian martyrs of Tuesday [8
November] Samarra city terrorist attack would arrive In Iran through Khosravi
border Thursday [10 November].

Hoseyn Parvin added in an interview with IRNA, "Due to the explosion of a bomb
planted by terrorists in the return way of one of a Hajj and Pilgrimage
Organization caravan of pilgrims of Iraq holy shrines from Gilan Province in
Al-Musahidah region near Samarra district of Baghdad, three pilgrims of Imam
Hussain (P) were unfortunately martyred. He further informed IRNA, "In that
terrorist attack totally seven pilgrims were wounded, three of whom were
martyred, and the other four were transferred to the operation rooms of a
Baghdad hospital."

Parvin added, "The wounded victims were later on the same day transferred to
Tehran by plane." He said that the names of the names of the martyrs who would
arrive in through Khosravi border on Thursday are Seyyed Mohammad Ali
Fallah-Abbasi, Zahra Daqiqi, and Hedayat Rowshanvand, all from a caravan from
Iran's Gialn Province. Iran's Qasr-e-Shirin border city has 168 kilometres of
shared border with Iraq, a 25,000 strong population, and two official borders of
International Khosravi and Parviz Khan.

Source: Islamic Republic News Agency website, Tehran, in English 0315 gmt 10 Nov
11

LOAD-DATE: November 10, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2011 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              195 of 331 DOCUMENTS


                            Manchester Evening News

                            November 11, 2011 Friday

Residents' terror as arson attack wrecks buildings

BYLINE: WFnode

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 1412 words


Jonathan Macpherson

pics taken on Wednesday morning

with video uploaded to youtube

http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=FQkk82sn4Nk

told Lee to get screen grabs of 5sec, 15sec and 46sec

ARSONISTS are being blamed for a major blaze which engulfed four derelict houses
and a disused shop.

Around 40 firefighters spent nearly four hours tackling the fire on Blackburn
Road, Accrington which started around 8pm on Tuesday, November 6.

The empty Kit's off-licence and convenience store was also damaged as six crews
battled to put out the flames.

Neighbours have now called for the houses to be demolished to prevent further
arson attacks.

The fire is believed to have started in the first floor of one of the
mid-terraced properties before spreading to the roof.

The fire service said nobody was in the properties at the time and no-one needed
to be evacuated.

Watch manager Gary Hargreaves said they are treating the fire as suspicious and
said there are signs of forced entry.

He said: When we arrived the fire was fully developed on the first floor of one
of the properties and had spread to the roof.

The fire started in one of the empty properties and caused severe damage to both
the first floor and roofs of several of the properties.

There was some damage to the ground floor of the shop which was connected to the
properties. The fire is being treated as suspicious and will be investigated by
ourselves and police. We will check with nearby CCTV cameras to see if there is
any evidence.

Blackburn Road was closed in both directions overnight as a fire crews used an
aerial ladder and hose reels to contain the fire.

As the fire spread to the roof a large number of slates slid onto the street.

Firefighters continued to dampen down the scene throughout the night and the
road was reopened after several hours.

A police spokesperson said the fire is now under investigation.

Neighbour Mohammed Saleem, 40, who lives with his wife and two children, said: I
had just come back from work and there was a little bit of smoke coming out of
the houses and then I saw big flames coming out of the middle house.

I was scared as it was very close to my house. They should knock those houses
down as they are not safe. Anybody could get in and set it on fire. If that
happens and I am not home then something could happen to my house or family.

The arson comes only a month after an inferno tore through Barnes Furniture
warehouse in Accrington.

The Observer reported how landlords were being warned to tighten up security at
their empty properties or risk becoming the next target for arsonists.

Councillor Tony Dobson said: This is another good example of the dangers of
empty properties because whoever owns them will need to spend a lot of money on
them to get them back up to scratch.

It's a warning to all owners not to leave properties derelict and if not then at
least make it look like it's occupied with curtains and lights.

To view video of the fire visit www.accringtonobserver.co.uk.   Jonathan
Macpherson pics taken on Wednesday morning with video uploaded to youtube
http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=FQkk82sn4Nk told Lee to get screen grabs of 5sec,
15sec and 46sec ARSONISTS are being blamed for a major blaze which engulfed four
derelict houses and a disused shop. Around 40 firefighters spent nearly four
hours tackling the fire on Blackburn Road, Accrington which started around 8pm
on Tuesday, November 6. The empty Kit's off-licence and convenience store was
also damaged as six crews battled to put out the flames. Neighbours have now
called for the houses to be demolished to prevent further arson attacks. The
fire is believed to have started in the first floor of one of the mid-terraced
properties before spreading to the roof. The fire service said nobody was in the
properties at the time and no-one needed to be evacuated. Watch manager Gary
Hargreaves said they are treating the fire as suspicious and said there are
signs of forced entry. He said: When we arrived the fire was fully developed on
the first floor of one of the properties and had spread to the roof. The fire
started in one of the empty properties and caused severe damage to both the
first floor and roofs of several of the properties. There was some damage to the
ground floor of the shop which was connected to the properties. The fire is
being treated as suspicious and will be investigated by ourselves and police. We
will check with nearby CCTV cameras to see if there is any evidence. Blackburn
Road was closed in both directions overnight as a fire crews used an aerial
ladder and hose reels to contain the fire. As the fire spread to the roof a
large number of slates slid onto the street. Firefighters continued to dampen
down the scene throughout the night and the road was reopened after several
hours. A police spokesperson said the fire is now under investigation. Neighbour
Mohammed Saleem, 40, who lives with his wife and two children, said: I had just
come back from work and there was a little bit of smoke coming out of the houses
and then I saw big flames coming out of the middle house. I was scared as it was
very close to my house. They should knock those houses down as they are not
safe. Anybody could get in and set it on fire. If that happens and I am not home
then something could happen to my house or family. The arson comes only a month
after an inferno tore through Barnes Furniture warehouse in Accrington. The
Observer reported how landlords were being warned to tighten up security at
their empty properties or risk becoming the next target for arsonists.
Councillor Tony Dobson said: This is another good example of the dangers of
empty properties because whoever owns them will need to spend a lot of money on
them to get them back up to scratch. It's a warning to all owners not to leave
properties derelict and if not then at least make it look like it's occupied
with curtains and lights. To view video of the fire visit
www.accringtonobserver.co.uk.   ARSONISTS are being blamed for a major blaze
which engulfed four derelict houses and a disused shop. Around 40 firefighters
spent nearly four hours tackling the fire on Blackburn Road, Accrington, which
started at around 8pm on Tuesday, November 8. The empty Kit's Off-Licence and
Convenience Store was also damaged as six crews battled to put out the flames.
Neighbours have now called for the houses to be demolished to prevent further
arson attacks. The fire is believed to have started in the first floor of one of
the mid-terraced properties before spreading to the roof. Watch manager Gary
Hargreaves said they were treating the fire as suspicious' and that there were
signs of forced entry. They are now checking CCTV. He said: When we arrived the
fire was fully developed on the first floor of one of the properties and had
spread to the roof. The fire started in one of the empty properties and caused
severe damage to both the first floor and roofs of several of the properties.
There was some damage to the ground floor of the shop which was connected to the
properties. The fire is being treated as suspicious and will be investigated by
ourselves and police. Blackburn Road was closed in both directions on Tuesday
night as a fire crews attempted to contain the fire. As it spread to the roof a
large number of slates slid onto the street. Firefighters continued to dampen
down the scene throughout the night. Neighbour Mohammed Saleem, 40, who lives
with his wife and two children, said: I had just come back from work and there
was a little bit of smoke coming out of the houses and then I saw big flames
coming out of the middle house. I was scared as it was very close to my house.
They should knock those houses down as they are not safe. Anybody could get in
and set it on fire. If that happens and I am not home then something could
happen to my house or family. The arson comes only a month after an inferno tore
through Barnes Furniture warehouse in Accrington. The Observer reported how
landlords were warned to tighten up security at empty properties or risk
becoming the target for arsonists. Coun Tony Dobson said: This is another good
example of the dangers of empty properties because whoever owns them will need
to spend a lot of money on them to get them back up to scratch. It's a warning
to all owners not to leave properties derelict and if not then at least make it
look like it's occupied with curtains and lights. n To view a video of the fire
visit www.accringtonobserver. co.uk

LOAD-DATE: November 11, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: by Jonathan Macpherson
AFTERMATH... The former Kit's off-licence and houses which were ravaged by fire
on Tuesday night
ENGULFED... Video footage of the blaze as 40 firefighters battled to extinguish
the flames on Blackburn Road

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2011 Manchester Evening News
                              All Rights Reserved

                              196 of 331 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring Middle East - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                            November 13, 2011 Sunday

Algeria: "Terrorists" attack National Gendarmerie barracks

LENGTH: 183 words


Text of report by privately-owned Algerian newspaper El-Khabar website

Text of report by A. Radwan entitled "Terrorists open fire on a National
Gendarmerie barracks in Tazmalt, Bejaia Province" published on Algerian
newspaper El-Khabar website in Arabic 12 Nov 11

A terrorist group at 2200 on Thursday evening attempted to storm a National
Gendarmerie barracks in the town of Tazmalt [Bejaia Province]. The terrorist
opened fire towards the main gate and then fled when the National Gendarmerie
personnel retaliated. Sources in the region said that the terrorists arrived in
a Toyota Hilux and their aim was to provoke the gendarmes.

In another development, local sources said that a suicidal woman on Friday
morning was able to go through a National Gendarmerie security barrier at the
Kherata town exit. Security officers shot at her but missed. The sources said
that the security services launched a combing operation and a search for the
suicidal woman. We have not had the opportunity to get an official confirmation
from the security services.

Source: El-Khabar website, Algiers, in Arabic 12 Nov 11

LOAD-DATE: November 14, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2011 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              197 of 331 DOCUMENTS



                                  Sunday Life

                               November 13, 2011
                                  Main Edition

HOLIDAY HORROR ambulance ATTACK CLAIMS;
TURKISH TERROR

BYLINE: Tony Allen

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 24

LENGTH: 468 words


A HOLIDAYMAKER who called an ambulance for help says she ended up being brutally
assaulted by the paramedic sent to save her.

Carmel Kelly's frightening ordeal occurred in the sunshine Turkish resort of
Marmaris last month.

She is now fighting to have her alleged attacker prosecuted.

The harrowing incident occurred just months after best friends Marion Graham and
Kathy Dinsmore from Newry were murdered while on holiday in Turkey.

Reliving the agony, which left her with bruising to her breast, arm and leg,
Carmel said: "As I begged him to stop, he came down right to my face and growled
'no'.

"I will never forget that," said Carmel.

The Omagh woman, who was on a break with her young family, needed the ambulance
after she took a severe allergic reaction to a bee sting.

It was while on the way to hospital that Carmel, who was dressed in a bikini,
says she was attacked.

"I was strapped so tightly onto the gurney I still feel the pain in my chest
from the straps today," she said.

"I couldn't move, I was completely vulnerable. I was fully conscious by this
stage.

"The paramedic then started to physically assault me. He was grabbing and
nipping my upper arm so hard I was left with bruises right across my arm and
down my left breast," explained Carmel.

"I was screaming at him to stop hurting me, repeating over and over 'stop
hurting me, why are you hurting me?'

"He then grabbed my inner leg and did the same before brushing his hand across
my bikini line. Thankfully the hospital was only about five minutes away,
otherwise I dread to think what would have happened. I was so scared, absolutely
petrified."

Carmel says once she arrived at what she thought was the safety of the hospital
her nightmare continued.

"I tried to report the paramedic but no-one cared," she said.

"I was just thrown in a room and left with no treatment. I was in hysterics but
they did nothing. I was still in a wet bikini as I was stung just after getting
out of the pool.

"They wouldn't give me anything to cover myself and I was told I had to pay for
a glass of water."

The hospital, which had Carmel's passport, demanded a £500 payment for its
return when she tried to discharge herself.

"All they cared about was cash, not treatment," she said.

"I discharged myself anyway and contacted the British Embassy who drove to the
hospital to get my passport back for me."

The Tyrone woman revealed that she is attempting to take legal action against
the paramedic and hospital. A witness has provided her solicitors with a
detailed statement backing up her claims. Carmel has also made a formal
statement to the PSNI.

CAPTION: PAINFUL INJURIES: Carmel Kelly's deep bruisingBEAUTIFUL DESTINATION:
But Carmel says her trip to Marmaris in Turkey turned into a total
nightmareHARROWING ORDEAL: Carmel Kelly says she was attacked by a paramedic

LOAD-DATE: November 13, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: SL


                  Copyright 2011 Belfast Telegraph Newspapers
                              All Rights Reserved

                              198 of 331 DOCUMENTS


                        BBC Monitoring Central Asia Unit
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                            November 14, 2011 Monday

Kazakh president calls for vigilance over terror attack in south

LENGTH: 183 words


Text of report by privately-owned Interfax-Kazakhstan news agency

Astana, 14 November: Kazakhstan has every opportunity to suppress any
manifestation of terrorism, Kazakh President Nursultan Nazarbayev has said.

"The [Kazakh] state has all the features, power, professionalism and ability to
suppress any manifestation of terrorism, which is committed against Kazakhstan.
I also urge all Kazakhs to be vigilant. [I urge them] to immediately inform
relevant law-enforcement agencies in case of noticing such incidents. We will
sort out the incident and step up efforts in all areas," the president said at
today's meeting on the fight against religious extremism and terrorism.

The presidential press service said that during the meeting, Nazarbayev said
that terrorism was taking place in many countries, including prosperous Europe,
and Kazakhstan was not an exception.

[Monitor's note: on 12 November, five police officers and two locals were killed
in the terrorist attack took place in Kazakhstan's southern city of Taraz]

Source: Interfax-Kazakhstan news agency, Almaty, in Russian 1208 gmt 14 Nov 11

LOAD-DATE: November 14, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2011 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              199 of 331 DOCUMENTS


                        BBC Monitoring Central Asia Unit
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                            November 14, 2011 Monday

Kazakh leader offers condolence to families of victims of terror attack in south

LENGTH: 148 words


Text of report by privately-owned Interfax-Kazakhstan news agency

Astana, 14 November: Kazakh President Nursultan Nazarbayev has expressed his
condolences to the families of the officers of law-enforcement agencies, who
were killed by terrorists in Taraz (administrative centre of [Kazakhstan's
southern] Zhambyl Region).

"Above all, I want to express my deepest condolences to the kith and kin of the
victims. We share their grief," Nazarbayev said at today's meeting on the fight
against religious extremism and terrorism.

Quotes from the president's speech are given in the statement published by his
press service.

"I instruct the interior minister and local executive bodies of the region to
create all necessary conditions for the families and children of the victims and
give them full support," Nazarbayev said.

Source: Interfax-Kazakhstan news agency, Almaty, in Russian 1209 gmt 14 Nov 11

LOAD-DATE: November 14, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2011 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              200 of 331 DOCUMENTS


                        BBC Monitoring Central Asia Unit
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                            November 14, 2011 Monday

Kazakh interior minister chairs probe into recent terror attack in south

LENGTH: 146 words


Excerpt from report by privately-owned Interfax-Kazakhstan news agency

Astana, 14 November: Kazakh Interior Minister Kalmukhanbet Kasymov has led a
group to investigate the terrorist attack in Taraz (administrative centre of
[Kazakhstan's southern] Zhambyl Region).

"A criminal case under articles 'terrorism' and 'murder' has been launched to
this effect.

"The special interagency rapid-investigation group led by Kazakh Interior
Minister Kalmukhanbet Kasymov was set up to investigate all the facts of the
incident," the presidential press service reported today following a meeting on
the fight against religious extremism and terrorism, which was attended by
[Kazakh] President Nursultan Nazarbayev.

The group should conduct a thorough investigation, the report said.

[Passage omitted: known details]

Source: Interfax-Kazakhstan news agency, Almaty, in Russian 1211 gmt 14 Nov 11

LOAD-DATE: November 14, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2011 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              201 of 331 DOCUMENTS


                            South Wales Evening Post

                            November 14, 2011 Monday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

'MY HOLIDAY ATTACK HELL';
Rugby player left fighting for his life tells of his terror ; Holiday attack
hell for victim

BYLINE: JULIA BOSNYAK

SECTION: NEWS; FRONT PAGE; Pg. 1,2

LENGTH: 402 words


AN Amman United rugby player savagely attacked in Ibiza has spoken of the
"terrifying" ordeal that left him fighting for his life and only able to move
his eyes.

Chris Gregory, 22, who works at Ffos Las racecourse, was only three hours into
his summer holiday when he was knocked unconscious during a nightclub brawl.

He was airlifted to hospital in Majorca suffering bleeding on the brain.

Now, in an interview to be broadcast tonight on S4C's Y Byd Ar Bedwar programme
(9.30pm), Mr Gregory, of Vicarage Road, Garnant, tells of his anger that his
attacker is yet to be brought to justice.

He said he recalled his flight, getting to the hotel and then heading out on the
Spanish island "to Delilah's bar with the boys".

"But then it's just blank," he said.

"I remember seeing the helicopter blades and my parents in intensive care but
then nothing. Then three days later I woke up in the ward.

"It was terrifying. I couldn't move anything other than my eyes, I didn't even
know if I could move my hands.

Police "I am really, really lucky not to be in a wheelchair. I feel lucky to be
alive.

"The police phoned me once when I was in Majorca and I haven't heard a word from
them since. If something like this happened over here, you'd expect someone to
be in the nick for it by now."

The S4C show took its investigation out to the Balearic island and said the
Spanish police were refusing to comment. Parents Trevor and Ann found out what
had happened shortly after the August incident from the mother of one of Chris's
friends, who he was on holiday with. They flew out straight away to be at
Chris's side at the hospital on the island. At the time, Mr Gregory's dad Trevor
said: "It was a real shock. "He just went on holiday with his friends and some
bloke came along and beat him up for no reason."

The assault happened in the same town and on the same day as Sam Perrott, a
19-year-old soldier who lives five miles away from Chris in Trap, was drugged,
beaten and robbed. They did not know each other. The programme also includes an
update on Mr Perrott, who lived for weeks with the terrifying prospect he might
have been infected by a dirty needle used in the attack. "As I turned around I
suddenly felt something like a bag being pulled over my head," he said. "At
first I thought it was friends messing around but then I heard the strange
accents and voices I didn't recognise," he said. ? julia.bosnyak@swwmedia.co.uk

LOAD-DATE: November 14, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: RECOVERY Attack victim Chris Gregory in hospital.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: SWP


                    Copyright 2011 South Wales Evening Post
                              All Rights Reserved

                              202 of 331 DOCUMENTS


                        BBC Monitoring Central Asia Unit
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                           November 15, 2011 Tuesday

Kazakh police establish possible associates of suspect in recent terror attack

LENGTH: 147 words


Text of report by privately-owned Interfax-Kazakhstan news agency

Astana, 15 November: The investigation has established accomplices of the
terrorist who killed seven people and blew himself up in Taraz [administrative
centre of Zhambyl Region in southern Kazakhstan], Interior Minister Kalmukhanbet
Kasymov has said. He is the head of an interdepartmental group investigating the
crime.

"We are now checking all his contacts. He was a living person and communicated
with someone. That is now being clarified. We have already established
(accomplices), but this information will not be released in the interests of the
investigation," he told journalists today.

The minister said that investigators were also checking whether the terrorist
had any links with the radical organization Soldiers of the Caliphate.

Source: Interfax-Kazakhstan news agency, Almaty, in Russian 0505 gmt 15 Nov 11

LOAD-DATE: November 15, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2011 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              203 of 331 DOCUMENTS


                    BBC Monitoring Asia Pacific - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                           November 15, 2011 Tuesday

Arrested terror suspects planned to attack Indonesian police station - official

LENGTH: 262 words


Text of report in English by Indonesian government-owned news agency Antara
website

Jakarta (ANTARA News) - Police have obtained proof that six terror suspects they
arrested on Sunday [13 November] had planned to attack a police station in West
Jakarta.

"A number of documents belonging to them showed they planned to attack a police
station," the head of the National Police's public information service, Senior
Commissioner Boy Rafli Amar, said here on Monday.

He said the terror suspects had a general plan to attack community leaders who
had views which were different from theirs.

He said the police had not received any information if they also planned to
attack foreign embassies or the 26th SEA Games venues in Palembang, South
Sumatra or Jakarta and the ASEAN Summit in Bali.

Police anti-terror unit Densus 88 arrested six terror suspects in Tangerang in
Banten Province and in East Jakarta as well as Bekasi in West Java on Saturday
(Nov 12) and on Sunday (Nov 13).

The six from the Abu Omar terror cell were identified by their initials as DAP
(34), BHD (35) and A (32) who were caught in Cipondoh and Karawaci, Tangerang,
Banten, and D alias M who was nabbed in East Jakarta, S alias S who was arrested
in Bekasi, and S who was taken into custody in Tangerang.

From them. the police also confiscated various documents on attack plans and
four firearms and a quantity of ammunition.

Boy said the police were now still trying to find another arms cache believed to
have been hidden by them in Depok, West Java.

Source: Antara news agency, Jakarta, in English 0000gmt 14 Nov 11

LOAD-DATE: November 15, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2011 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              204 of 331 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring South Asia - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                           November 15, 2011 Tuesday

Afghan security arrests 10 terrorists planning to attack parliament

LENGTH: 475 words


Text of report by Afghan privately-owned Shamshad TV on 14 November

[Presenter] The National Directorate of Security (NDS) has said that they have
arrested a 10-member group of terrorists, who were equipped with weapons and
suicide vests, and wanted to raid the National Assembly building. Spokesman of
the NDS, Lotfollah Mashal has said that the group had placed its weapons and
suicide vests in cartons full of Koran and wanted to bring the items to Kabul
city.

[Correspondent] While the traditional loya jerga [grand assembly] is going to
commence in a day, spokesman of the NDS told reporters Monday [14 November] that
they had arrested a 10-member group which wanted to attack the National Assembly
building.

[Mashal in Dari] In a special operation, the NDS officers arrested a 10-member
terrorist group of organizers of suicide and explosive attacks, which wanted to
organize armed and suicide attacks on the building of the National Assembly or
the parliament of Afghanistan, and seized four suicide vests, four Kalashnikov
[assault rifles], 30 magazines full of bullets and arrested four would-be
suicide attackers, who are citizens of Pakistan, in the Pol-e Charkhi and
Microrayan areas which are parts of district No 9 of Kabul city.

[Correspondent] Mashal added that the attackers had placed their weapons and
suicide vests in cartons of Koran in the Kacha Gari area in Peshawar, Pakistan
and wanted to transport the items to Kabul by a transportation company called
Mama Khel, but the items were seized in the Pol-e Charkhi area by the NDS.

[Mashal in Dari] This time, they acted in the most calamitous and non-Islamic
way, because they placed explosive vests in Koran cartons. We have filmed the
cartons and copied it on to CDs for you to show to the people that they abused
the holy book of the Muslims, which they claimed they were fighting for, in
order to transport explosives. They put Koran beneath and on top of the vests
inside the cartons. In my opinion, even the infidels respect the Koran.

[Correspondent] Meanwhile, political analyst, Azizollah Aziz, said that this was
an activity of the intelligence networks of the regional countries, because
Koran is the holy book of all the Muslims and the intelligence networks try to
create distrust and distance among the people this way.

[Aziz] The war in Afghanistan was an intelligence war from the beginning, but it
has now been clear to the Afghan and people in the world that the war is of
intelligence networks and that the regional countries such as Iran, Pakistan and
other countries with nuclear weapons in the region are involved in the war.

[Correspondent] Mashal said as in the past the plan of these attacks was plotted
in the Peshawar and Quetta Councils, but the Pakistani officials have always
denied such accusations.

Source: Shamshad TV, Kabul, in Pashto 1430 gmt 14 Nov 11

LOAD-DATE: November 15, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2011 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              205 of 331 DOCUMENTS



                          The Daily Telegraph (London)

                           November 15, 2011 Tuesday
                                   Edition 2;
                                National Edition

Missiles will be ready to protect Olympics from terrorist attack

BYLINE: Tim Ross

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 513 words


MISSILES could be fired in London to protect the Olympic Games from terrorist
attack, Philip Hammond, the Defence Secretary, announced yesterday.

Mr Hammond said "all necessary measures" would be taken to ensure security at
the Games, including "appropriate ground to air defences", if such action is
recommended by the military.

The announcement came as it emerged that America had repeatedly raised concerns
about security at the Games and was preparing to send 1,000 agents to protect
American citizens. Mr Hammond was pressed on the subject of Olympics security in
the House of Commons by his predecessor, Dr Liam Fox.

Dr Fox, who resigned following allegations about his links to Adam Werritty, his
self-styled adviser, said surface-to-air missiles had been used at Olympic Games
since Atlanta in 1996.

He asked Mr Hammond to confirm that "there will be a full level of multilayered
defence and deterrence for the London Games, including ground-to-air based
missiles in London".

The Defence Secretary replied: "All necessary measures to ensure the security
and safety of the London Olympic Games will be taken, including, if the advice
of the military is that it is required, appropriate ground-to-air defences."

As Dr Fox was Defence Secretary until last month, he would have been aware that
the security plans would include the potential deployment of missiles.

The Commons exchange followed reports of concerns among US officials that the
British security operation may not be rigorous enough to protect American
diplomats and competitors. American fears were said to have been heightened by
last summer's London riots, the arrest of a security guard at the Olympic site,
the arrest of six suspected terrorists before the visit of the Pope to the UK
last year, and the curbs to stop-and-search powers. Hundreds of FBI agents are
expected to be among the American security personnel.

A budget of £600million has been allocated for safety and security at the Games,
but Olympics officials believe savings of £125million can be made. The Home
Office insisted that security planning for London 2012 was "on track".

Chris Allison, the Metropolitan Police Assistant Commissioner in charge of
security at the Games, played down reports of American concerns. He denied
security talks were suffering from interference from American diplomats,
insisting that the US had given "great support".

However, he said the security operation would remain British. "The Games will be
delivered by the British police service working with the event organisers Locog.

"We will have support from colleagues up and down the country but it is the
British police who will be doing it," he told the BBC. "There will be a small
number of liaison officers whose job will be quite properly to act as a conduit
with the police service here and the foreign teams. We will be working with all
the countries who may be bringing such teams."

The official security plan includes deploying 12,000 officers to police the
event with up to 15,000 more private security staff stationed at the 32 Olympic
sites around the country.

LOAD-DATE: November 15, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DTL


                  Copyright 2011 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              206 of 331 DOCUMENTS



                                  ENP Newswire

                           November 15, 2011 Tuesday

-Aon Benfield launches UK terrorism catastrophe model with updated attack
scenarios and probabilities

LENGTH: 1233 words


ENP Newswire - 15 November 2011

Release date- 14112011 - Aon Benfield, the global reinsurance intermediary and
capital advisor of Aon Corporation (NYSE:AON), has updated its UK terrorism
catastrophe model.

The model estimates the financial loss to life insurers from potential terrorist
events and helps to satisfy the requirements of the proposed European Union
Solvency II regulation, which requires insurers to gain a better understanding
of their exposures and consequently their reinsurance buying strategy.



The model simulates attacks on more than 2,000 potential UK targets, including
places of worship, financial centres, infrastructure, government and military
locations. For each simulated event, it forecasts the consequent impact on an
insurer's exposures which can be used to assess potential financial losses from
injuries and deaths.

The model has been developed through a unique collaboration of Impact
Forecasting - Aon Benfield's catastrophe model development centre of excellence
- and counter-terrorism experts from Aon Risk Solution's Crisis Management team,
who have provided input on event frequency, credible attack types and damage
profiles for various scenarios. The model's real-world approach highlights:

The likelihood and probable impact of unconventional attack types - such as
chemical, biological and nuclear terrorism - accounts for 2% of modelled
scenarios, consistent with the historical record, both globally and in the UK

Damage impact is calculated by modelling dispersion of chemical and radioactive
particles, amongst other effects, in addition to blast and thermal impacts

An innovative approach assesses the expected effect of state mitigation on
frequency in the aftermath of a major attack, in addition to accounting for the
dynamic interaction between terrorist groups and prevention agencies.

Adam Podlaha, international head of Impact Forecasting, commented: 'Working with
ex-military and security professionals with real-life experience of the impact
of terror attacks means we have been able to build a model based on a set of
practical and realistic scenarios. For example, we have incorporated expert
knowledge about the technical complexity of mounting material non-conventional
attacks and the relative probability of such events.'

Andy Cox, Group Protection Actuary from Legal and General, added: 'We required a
model that provided a more experience-based view of UK terrorism risk and would
enable us to gain an even better understanding of our Group Life and Income
Protection exposures. The advent of Solvency II means this is more important
than ever, as we work to embed the modelling process into our firm and make
important business decisions based on the results. As we grow our Group
Protection business by working in partnership with Aon Benfield, we have been
able to access expert opinion and create a model that meets the needs of the
industry as a whole.'

Scott Reid, Life Actuary and reinsurance broker at Aon Benfield, said: 'Closer
examination of terrorism risk is being driven by upcoming European Union
regulatory changes. Solvency II has been the catalyst to the further development
of our terrorism loss model. Using expert judgment, we help insurers understand
their exposures and optimise the transfer of their risks to the reinsurance
market.'

Ends

About Impact Forecasting

Impact Forecasting LLC is a catastrophe model development center of excellence
within Aon Benfield whose seismologists, meteorologists, hydrologists,
engineers, mathematicians, GIS experts, finance, risk management and insurance
professionals analyze the financial implications of natural and man-made
catastrophes around the world. Impact Forecasting's experts develop software
tools and models that help clients understand underlying risks from hurricanes,
tornadoes, earthquakes, floods, wildfires and terrorist attacks on property,
casualty and crop insurers and reinsurers. Impact Forecasting is the only
catastrophe model development firm integrated into a reinsurance intermediary.
To find out more about Impact Forecasting LLC, visit impactforecasting.com

About Aon Benfield

Aon Benfield, a division of Aon Corporation (NYSE: AON), is the world's leading
reinsurance intermediary and full-service capital advisor. We empower our
clients to better understand, manage and transfer risk through innovative
solutions and personalized access to all forms of global reinsurance capital
across treaty, facultative and capital markets. As a trusted advocate, we
deliver local reach to the world's markets, an unparalleled investment in
innovative analytics, including catastrophe management, actuarial and rating
agency advisory. Through our professionals' expertise and experience, we advise
clients in making optimal capital choices that will empower results and improve
operational effectiveness for their business. With more than 80 offices in 50
countries, our worldwide client base has access to the broadest portfolio of
integrated capital solutions and services. To learn how Aon Benfield helps
empower results, please visit aonbenfield.com.

About Aon Crisis Management

Aon Risk Solutions' Crisis Management practice helps clients quantify and
qualify their exposure to the threats of terrorism, kidnap, extortion, product
contamination, product recall, piracy and political risk - ensuring they have
the most appropriate and cost effective risk management strategy. Aon's unique
consulting approach helps clients quantify and qualify their exposure, ensuring
they have a robust and comprehensive strategy around risk retention, mitigation,
transfer and management. Crisis Management creates innovative, bespoke
solutions, delivered through a combination of insurance market expertise and
risk management strategy to help clients protect their people, assets and brand.


About Aon

Aon Corporation (NYSE: AON) is the leading global provider of risk management
services, insurance and reinsurance brokerage, and human resources solutions and
outsourcing. Through its more than 60,000 colleagues worldwide, Aon unites to
deliver distinctive client value via innovative and effective risk management
and workforce productivity solutions. Aon's industry-leading global resources
and technical expertise are delivered locally in over 120 countries. Named the
world's best broker by Euromoney magazine's 2008, 2009 and 2010 Insurance
Survey, Aon also ranked highest on Business Insurance's listing of the world's
insurance brokers based on commercial retail, wholesale, reinsurance and
personal lines brokerage revenues in 2008 and 2009. A.M. Best deemed Aon the
number one insurance broker based on revenues in 2007, 2008 and 2009, and Aon
was voted best insurance intermediary 2007-2010, best reinsurance intermediary
2006-2010, best captives manager 2009-2010, and best employee benefits
consulting firm 2007-2009 by the readers of Business Insurance. Visit
http://www.aon.com for more information on Aon and
http://www.aon.com/manchesterunited to learn about Aon's global partnership and
shirt sponsorship with Manchester United.

Media contacts

David Bogg

Aon Benfield

t: +44 (0)20 7522 4016

e: david.bogg@aonbenfield.com

Andrew Wragg

Aon Benfield

t: +44 (0)20 7522 8183

e: andrew.wragg@aonbenfield.com

Alexandra Lewis

Aon Benfield

t: +44 (0)20 7882 0541

e: alexandra.lewis@aonbenfield.com

[Editorial queries for this story should be sent to newswire@enpublishing.co.uk
]

LOAD-DATE: November 15, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newswire

JOURNAL-CODE: ENPN


                      Copyright 2011 Normans Media Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              207 of 331 DOCUMENTS


                              Liverpool Daily Echo

                           November 15, 2011 Tuesday
                                  1st Edition

MY ATTACK TERROR IN ISLAND HOME;
Tees woman feared for life Tees woman's Caribbean attack terror

BYLINE: NAOMI CORRIGAN

SECTION: NEWS; FRONT PAGE; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 341 words


A TEESSIDE expat spoke of her terror after being attacked by a masked robber in
her paradise island home.

Louise Laverick was hit in the face, then bound with tape and had a pillowcase
put over her face by an intruder whom she feared was going to kill her.

But the tourism executive, who moved to the Dominican Republic from Stockton
four years ago, had already pressed an alarm linked to police after arriving at
her home and realising something was wrong.

The robber was shot by officers in a gun battle as he tried to flee. His two
suspected accomplices were also shot dead in another part of the Caribbean isle.
Louise, 39, said: "I have three dogs but I noticed two had got in the house.
Something wasn't right so I pressed the panic button that alerted police. "The
man jumped on me, hit me and started pushing me to the bedroom. "I was screaming
but he grabbed my arm and told me if I didn't shut up he would break it. "He
tied up my arms and legs and put tape over my mouth and a pillowcase over my
head. "He kept hitting me and telling me to be quiet. He left me in the bedroom
- I was too scared to move. I thought he was going to kill me. "I heard him
rummaging around. He even turned the TV on. I think he must have been waiting
for it to get dark to escape. "I was lying there in agony." Louise said the
intruder filled a suitcase with her belongings but did not take it when he fled.
"He must have heard the police outside because he only took some money and the
keys for the Jeep," she said. "The police shot him when he tried to run." Police
killed 23-year-old Ferando Bonillo after he fired at officers from bushes
outside the four-bedroom house, on a private estate. The dead man reportedly had
cash, a mobile phone and car keys belonging to Louise on him. Two knives thought
to be his were also found at the scene. Police killed his suspected accomplices
as they were being chased in a stolen truck. Louise, who was treated for shock
as well as cuts and bruises after Wednesday's attack, said: "I'm shook-up but I
won't move."

LOAD-DATE: November 15, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:  ASSAULTED: Louise Laverick, left, who originally comes from Stockton,
suffered a terrifying attack in her home in the Dominican Republic but an alarm
led to her rescue by police

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: le


               Copyright 2011 The Liverpool Daily Post & Echo Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                              208 of 331 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                     November 15, 2011 Tuesday 6:33 AM GMT

Missiles 'could be fired to protect Olympics from terrorist attack';
Missiles could be fired in London to protect the Olympic Games from terrorist
attack, Philip Hammond, the Defence Secretary, announced yesterday.

BYLINE: By Tim Ross Political Correspondent

LENGTH: 490 words


Mr Hammond said "all necessary measures" would be taken to ensure security at
the games, including "appropriate ground to air defences", if such action is
recommended by the military.

The announcement came as it emerged that America had repeatedly raised concerns
about security at the Games and was preparing to send 1,000 agents to protect
American citizens. Mr Hammond was pressed on the subject of Olympics security in
the House of Commons by his predecessor, Dr Liam Fox.

Dr Fox, who resigned following allegations about his links to Adam Werritty, his
self-styled adviser, said surface-to-air missiles had been used at Olympic Games
since Atlanta in 1996.

He asked Mr Hammond to confirm that "there will be a full level of multi-layered
defence and deterrence for the London Games, including ground-to-air based
missiles in London".

The Defence Secretary replied: "All necessary measures to ensure the security
and safety of the London Olympic Games will be taken, including, if the advice
of the military is that it is required, appropriate ground-to-air defences."

As Dr Fox was Defence Secretary until last month, he would have been aware that
the security plans would include the potential deployment of missiles.

The Commons exchange followed reports of concerns among US officials that the
British security operation may not be rigorous enough to protect American
diplomats and competitors. American fears were said to have been heightened by
last summer's London riots, the arrest of a security guard at the Olympic site,
the arrest of six suspected terrorists before the visit of the Pope to the UK
last year, and the curbs to stop-and-search powers. Hundreds of FBI agents are
expected to be among the American security personnel.

A budget of £600 million has been allocated for safety and security at the
Games, but Olympics officials believe savings of £125 million can be made. The
Home Office insisted that security planning for London 2012 was "on track".

Chris Allison, the Metropolitan Police Assistant Commissioner in charge of
security at the Games, played down reports of American concerns. He denied
security talks were suffering from interference from American diplomats,
insisting that the US had given "great support".

However, he said the security operation would remain British. "The Games will be
delivered by the British police service working with the event organisers Locog.

"We will have support from colleagues up and down the country but it is the
British police who will be doing it," he told the BBC. "There will be a small
number of liaison officers whose job will be quite properly to act as a conduit
with the police service here and the foreign teams. We will be working with all
the countries who may be bringing such teams."

The official security plan includes deploying 12,000 officers to police the
event with up to 15,000 more private security staff stationed at the 32 Olympic
sites around the country.

LOAD-DATE: December 29, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTNS


                  Copyright 2011 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              209 of 331 DOCUMENTS


                        BBC Monitoring Central Asia Unit
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                          November 16, 2011 Wednesday

Kazakh police put on high alert after recent terror attack

LENGTH: 153 words


Excerpt from report by privately-owned Interfax-Kazakhstan news agency

Astana, 16 November: Kazakh police have been put on high alert following a
terrorist attack in Taraz (administrative centre of [Kazakhstan's southern]
Zhambyl Region), the Kazakh Interior Ministry's spokesperson, Nurdilda Oraz, has
said.

"Due to the reinforcement after the Taraz events, all the bodies of the Kazakh
Interior Ministry were put on the heightened state of alert, and the police will
also be on high alert ahead of the 20th anniversary of the country's
Independence Day to ensure public order," Oraz said at today's briefing in
Astana.

He said that there was "no reason" for expecting a repetition of the attacks on
Independence Day.

"The leadership of the Interior Ministry is fully controlling the situation with
crime", he said.

[Passage omitted: known details]

Source: Interfax-Kazakhstan news agency, Almaty, in Russian 0801 gmt 16 Nov 11

LOAD-DATE: November 16, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2011 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              210 of 331 DOCUMENTS


                 BBC Monitoring Former Soviet Union - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                          November 16, 2011 Wednesday

Russian minister says over 50 terrorist attacks prevented in N Caucasus in 2011

LENGTH: 320 words


Text of report by Russian state news agency RIA Novosti

Stavropol, 16 November: In the first 10 months of this year, the law-enforcement
agencies prevented more than 50 terrorist attacks in the North Caucasus.
However, the operational situation in the region remains tense, Russian Interior
Minister Rashid Nurgaliyev has said.

"From January to October this year, law-enforcement officers prevented over 50
terrorism-related crimes. The operational situation in the North Caucasus
Federal District can be described as tense but stable," Nurgaliyev said today,
speaking at an operational meeting with the heads of police departments of the
constituent parts of the Russian Federation included in the North Caucasus
Federal District.

The minister said that "in 10 months alone, 350 terrorism-related crimes were
committed in the North Caucasus Federal District, including 213 shooting attacks
and 137 explosions". He said that during their search activities, policemen had
involved in 65 armed clashes.

The interior minister also said that during this period 313 insurgents had been
neutralized and 399 members of illegal armed groups arrested.

The law-enforcement agencies achieved significant results in eliminating the
militants' strongholds. "During this period, 100 bases and 318 caches with
terrorist equipment were eliminated," he said.

Nurgaliyev said that two improvised unguided rocket launchers, eight flame
throwers, 124 grenade launchers and over 1,100 pieces of small arms had been
seized.

Speaking about the effectiveness of the security forces' counter-terrorism
activities in the region, the interior minister said that many of them were
preventive. However, according to the interior minister, "the criminal
underground sometimes gets active in Karachay-Cherkessia, and the situation in
the Republic of Dagestan still remains difficult".

Source: RIA Novosti news agency, Moscow, in Russian 1545 gmt 16 Nov 11

LOAD-DATE: November 16, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2011 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              211 of 331 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                    November 16, 2011 Wednesday 6:26 AM GMT

MI6 spies died in battle against al-Qaeda, William Hague to say;
MI6 agents have died in the fight against al-Qaeda over the past decade to
protect Britain from terrorist attacks, William Hague is to say.

BYLINE: By Robert Winnett Political Editor

LENGTH: 598 words


In the first speech by a Foreign Secretary about the work of the secret
intelligence services, Mr Hague will say that terrorists would have had "free
rein" to harm British people at home and abroad were it not for their
intervention.

His comments come following accusations that the intelligence services were
involved in torture and providing questionable information about Iraq. It
represents the first official acknowledgement that fatalities have occurred
recently.

Mr Hague will say that after working closely with the spies he believes they
represent "the finest values of the UK".

"Many agents and sources risk their lives - some lose their lives - to give us
the vital information to keep us safe," he will say. "We have a duty to protect
them.

"The reason that the agencies operate in secret is so that we can protect the
lives and identities of those who we rely on to carry out this dangerous work
for us, and so that we do not reveal details of how they do it.

"As Foreign Secretary, I see operational proposals from the agencies every day
... They are often not easy decisions ... I take ultimate responsibility for
these operations, and I do not approve them all."

Mr Hague will add that intelligence "throws up some of the most difficult
ethical and legal questions" that he encounters as Foreign Secretary.

"Some of them relate to the proper use of intelligence in reaching and
justifying decisions in foreign policy - the most controversial instance of
this, the Iraq war, is currently the subject of an inquiry," he will say.

Last night, discussions were continuing over how much detail Mr Hague would
disclose in his speech at the Foreign Office.

However, extracts released last night disclosed that he will say: "Properly
used, secret intelligence saves both military and civilian lives, protects our
economy, stops serious crime and makes a critical contribution to our diplomatic
and military success.

"We use our intelligence agencies for specific needs which only they in
government are equipped to address, such as countering particular forms of
crime, terrorism or state espionage. They provide an early warning against
states which take actions which are hostile to us."

He will also say that intelligence "informs the making of foreign policy".

"They have the capabilities to find out things that are beyond the reach of
everyday diplomacy, filling in some of the blanks in our understanding of other
countries," the Foreign Secretary will say. "Our agencies' ability to derive
secret intelligence from human sources, from defectors, from intercepted
communications is a vital asset for our national objectives."

Mr Hague has decided to make the speech as the police continue their
investigation into allegations that MI5 and MI6 were complicit in torture. David
Cameron has also set up an inquiry - chaired by Sir Peter Gibson, a high court
judge - to study whether Britain was aware, or involved, in the improper
treatment of detainees abroad.

Last month, new safeguards were introduced that would allow intelligence
evidence to be heard in secret in British courts for the first time.

Mr Hague will today defend this "secret" justice, by saying: "A blend of people,
technology and partnerships gives us an intelligence edge. If our techniques
come to light, adversaries benefit and are able to switch techniques and
communications, resulting in a loss of knowledge about their plans."

Aides to Mr Hague said he had decided to make the speech as the agencies "can't
speak for themselves" and he was increasingly convinced that the public should
be told more about their work.

LOAD-DATE: December 29, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTNS


                  Copyright 2011 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              212 of 331 DOCUMENTS


                            BBC Monitoring Kiev Unit
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                           November 17, 2011 Thursday

Law-enforcers fear "terrorist attack" in Ukraine's eastern city

LENGTH: 243 words


Text of report by Interfax-Ukraine news agency

Donetsk. 17 November: A criminal case has been opened over a threat to stage a
terrorist attack in Donetsk (Article 258 Part 1 of the Criminal Code of Ukraine,
a terrorist attack), the press service of the Donetsk regional prosecutor's
office reported on Thursday (17 November).

"In order to carry out operational investigative tasks, an investigation
operational group was created. It includes members of the SBU [Security Service
of Ukraine] regional directorate and the directorate of the Ukrainian Interior
Ministry in Donetsk Region. The supervision over the investigation of the
criminal case is carried out by the prosecutor's office of the Donetsk Region,"
the press service said in the statement.

As reported earlier, a bomb exploded in a rubbish bin in the centre of
Dnipropetrovsk on 16 November, killing one man. A criminal case under Article
115 Part 2 Paragraph 5 of the Criminal Code of Ukraine (wilful murder) was
opened following the blast.

However, after the launch of investigation, the prosecutor of the Dnipropetrovsk
Region decided to revise the case in line with Article 258 Part 3 of the
Criminal Code of Ukraine (terrorist attack).

[An Internet user called "Unabomber" has posted an entry saying that blasts
similar to the one in Dnipropetrovsk would be carried out in Ukraine's other
eastern cities, including Donetsk.]

Source: Interfax-Ukraine news agency, Kiev, in Russian 0857 gmt 17 Nov 11

LOAD-DATE: November 17, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2011 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              213 of 331 DOCUMENTS



                          Press Association Mediapoint

                      November 18, 2011 Friday 2:44 PM BST

UK TERROR SUSPECTS KILLED IN ATTACK

BYLINE: Ahmed Khan, Sam Marsden and Wesley Johnson, Press Association

SECTION: HOME NEWS

LENGTH: 533 words


Two British nationals are believed to have been killed in a US drone attack in
Pakistan, family and friends of the men said today.

Terror suspects Ibrahim Adam and Mohammed Azmir are thought to have died in a
CIA missile strike on Waziristan, a remote and lawless mountainous region along
the border with Afghanistan.

Adam's father confirmed that his son was killed by an American unmanned
aircraft.

A close friend of Azmir's family, who did not want to be named, said: ``They
have taken it very badly - this is the second son who has been killed in a drone
strike.''

It is not known precisely when the men died, but it is thought to have been at
least three months ago, according to a source with personal connections in
Pakistan.

Adam, 24, from Barkingside, east London, had been on the run from the UK
authorities since absconding from a control order in May 2007.

His brother, Anthony Garcia, was jailed for life in April 2007 for his part in a
major fertiliser bomb plot to attack targets in London and across the UK.

Adam was made subject to a control order after being stopped while en route to
Syria after the British authorities claimed he was planning to travel to Iraq or
Afghanistan for jihadist training or to fight Western forces.

Father-of-three Azmir, 37, who was born in Sheffield and lived in Ilford, Essex,
was made subject to a Treasury order freezing his assets in February 2010 in
response to concerns he was involved in funding terrorism.

He is not currently on the Treasury's list of people and organisations subject
to financial sanctions.

It is believed that Azmir's brother, Abdul Jabbar, 32, was killed in an earlier
CIA unmanned drone attack in Pakistan in September last year.

The Foreign and Commonwealth Office could not confirm Adam and Azmir's deaths
but said it was investigating the reports.

A spokesman said: ``We are aware of reports and are looking into them further.''

The Home Office declined to comment.

The CIA's drone programme in Pakistan, which is not publicly acknowledged by the
US, is hugely controversial.

The Pakistani authorities have criticised the attacks as violations of their
country's sovereignty and international human rights campaigners have condemned
reports of innocent civilian casualties.

American officials have privately said that the strikes have killed many Taliban
and al Qaida commanders.

Cori Crider, legal director of campaign group Reprieve, said: ``As with all of
the CIA's drone campaign in Pakistan, these deaths are shrouded in mystery.

``What we need to know is what role the British Government may have played in
the killing of two of its own nationals.

``Did UK officials provide the US with information which helped them to target
their attack on these two people?

``If so, is Britain now complicit in the CIA's illegal campaign of drone
attacks, which has resulted in hundreds of civilian deaths?

``We also need to remember that, while it is unusual to hear of British
casualties, these strikes are an all too frequent reality for the people of
north-west Pakistan.

``We need to do everything that we can to shine a light on this murky and
counter-productive CIA campaign, which is killing civilians and fuelling
instability in the region.''

LOAD-DATE: November 19, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newswire


                  Copyright 2011 The Press Association Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              214 of 331 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                      November 18, 2011 Friday 8:35 PM GMT

Britain's 'most wanted' killed in drone attack;
One of Britain's most wanted terrorists has been killed by a CIA drone attack in
Pakistan, along with another Briton.

BYLINE: By Duncan Gardham Security Correspondent

LENGTH: 566 words


An international alert was issued last year warning that Ibrahim Adam was trying
to secure a passport and might be trying to return to Britain to launch attacks.

He was killed in the tribal region of Waziristan alongside Mohammed Azmir Khan,
37.

Both men and their brothers were believed to be part of an established network
of radicals from Ilford, East London with connections to al-Qaeda.

Adam's father confirmed that his son had been killed and a close friend of
Khan's family, who did not want to be named, said: "They have taken it very
badly - this is the second son who has been killed in a drone strike."

Adam, 24, was the younger brother of Anthony Garcia, 28, one of the men jailed
for life for plotting to blow up the Ministry of Sound night club or the
Bluewater Shopping Centre with a fertiliser bomb in 2004.

Adam disappeared along with his older brother Lamine, 30, in May 2007 despite
being put under a control order after previously being stopped while en route to
Syria.

Lamine, who had a job as a tube driver had allegedly wanted to carry out an
attack on a nightclub in Britain. He appears to have survived the drone attack.

Garcia wrote a letter to Adam from an al-Qaeda training camp in 2003, when he
was still a teenager, telling him: "You have been gifted OK with the people you
know but never think you are OK, always think you are nothing.

"Only when you believe this will you be able to sell your life....We will meet
either in this life or the hereafter.

"Study hard in Islamic matters, don't let them know you have future plans,
better that they think you are a fool than someone good."

His passport photographs were found in an al-Qaeda safe house in Oslo showing
Adam with four different hairstyles and clothing and were circulated to law
enforcement agencies across the world.

The photographs were discovered after MI5 and MI6 unraveled a global network
controlled by Rashid Rauf, a British al-Qaeda commander behind the July 7, July
21 and trans-Atlantic airlines plots.

The Adam brothers had been part of a group of militants in Ilford, East London
that also included the other dead man, Mohammed Azmir Khan, 37, a father of
three.

Khan's brother, Mohammed Jabar Ahmed, 34, also known as Abdul Jabber, was killed
by a missile from an unmanned drone in Datta Khel, near Miranshah in North
Waziristan on September 8 last year.

The whereabouts of a third brother, Mohammed Tunveer Ahmed, 39, is unknown. All
three were born in Sheffield and moved to London.

Tunveer and Jabar were members of the radical group al-Muhajiroun and travelled
to Afghanistan around the time of the September 11 attacks to fight with the
Taliban.

Like their associates in the fertiliser gang, the brothers returned to Britain
but were not arrested and at some point returned to Pakistan to rejoin the
militants.

Sources told the Daily Telegraph that two individuals associated with the group
tried to travel to Pakistan through Cairo and Dubai but were turned back at
Heathrow airport and put under control orders.

Another associate, tube driver Amir Ali, was acquitted of trying to travel to
Pakistan after telling a jury he was set up by MI5.

The Adam brothers' father, Elias, told the Daily Telegraph last year that he
feared he would never see his other two sons alive again.

"I am heartbroken. I am worried that I will never see them again. I just want
them to come back home," he said.

LOAD-DATE: December 29, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTNS


                  Copyright 2011 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              215 of 331 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                      November 18, 2011 Friday 7:42 PM GMT

Two British terrorism suspects killed in CIA drone attack;
Two Britons with suspected links to terrorism have been killed in a US drone
strike on the Pakistan-Afghanistan border, their families have said.

BYLINE: By Duncan Gardham, Gordon Rayner and Andy Bloxham

LENGTH: 454 words


Ibrahim Adam, who was one of Britain's most wanted al-Qaeda suspects after
fleeing from a control order four years ago, and Mohammed Azmir Khan were killed
in the CIA strike. It comes after concerns that Adam was plotting an attack on
the UK.

Adam, 24, was the brother of Anthony Garcia, who is currently serving a life
sentence for his part in a plot to blow up a nightclub or shopping centre with a
fertiliser bomb.

Khan, 37, was the brother of Abdul Jabbar, who was killed in another US drone
attack on Pakistan in September last year.

Their deaths will be seen by security agencies as a success in their attempts to
break up one of the biggest terrorist networks discovered since the September 11
attacks.

Adam is thought to have been part of a wider terrorist network assembled by the
British-born al-Qaeda commander Rashid Rauf, who was behind the plot to blow up
airliners using liquid bombs, and who was himself killed in a drone attack in
2008.

Adam, of Barkingside, east London, had been on the run with his older brother
Lamine since May 2007, when they both disappeared despite being electronically
tagged and put under a control order.

Adam had been put under the control order after being stopped en route to Syria,
because of intelligence that he was planning to travel to Iraq or Afghanistan
for jihadist training.

Last year passport photographs of Adam were circulated to law enforcement
agencies around the world after they were found in an apartment in Oslo,
prompting fears that he was trying to obtain a passport to return to the UK and
carry out attacks.

His brother, Garcia, 28, who changed his name from Abdulrahman Adam, attended a
training camp in Pakistan with two of the July 7 suicide bombers and wrote to
Ibrahim Adam telling him to "sell your life" and to hide the fact that he had
"future plans".

Last year his father, Elias, told The Daily Telegraph: "I am heartbroken. I am
worried that I will never see them again. I just want them to come back home."

Khan, a father of three who was born in Sheffield and lived in Ilford, Essex,
was made the subject of a Treasury order freezing his assets in February last
year following concerns he was involved in funding terrorism.

A friend of his family said: "They have taken it very badly - this is the second
son who has been killed in a drone strike."

The two men are understood to have been killed in Waziristan, the remote and
lawless region on Pakistan's border with Afghanistan, at least three months ago,
but news of their deaths has only now reached their families.

The Foreign Office said it could not confirm their deaths but a spokesman said:
"We are aware of reports and are looking into them further."

The Home Office declined to comment.

LOAD-DATE: December 29, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTNS


                  Copyright 2011 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              216 of 331 DOCUMENTS



                               Belfast Telegraph

                           November 19, 2011 Saturday
                                 First Edition

British terror suspects killed in drone attack

BYLINE: KIM SENGUPTA

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 129 words


TWO British terror suspects have been killed in a US drone strike on bases used
by al-Qaida and allied Islamist insurgents in Pakistan.

Ibrahim Adam and Mohammed Azmir were believed to have been killed around three
months ago when US forces intensified raids using unmanned planes in Pakistan.

Adam (24), from Barkingside in east London, was the subject of a control order
while en route to Syria from where, MI5 and Scotland Yard claimed, he had
planned to travel to jihadist training camps in Afghanistan or Pakistan.

Azmir (37), who lived in Ilford, Essex, had a Treasury order imposed freezing
his assets after he was allegedly involved in funding terrorism.

The raids focused on the Haqqani network, a terrorist group connected to
al-Qaida and the Pakistani secret police, ISI.

LOAD-DATE: November 19, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: BT


                Copyright 2011 Belfast Telegraph Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              217 of 331 DOCUMENTS


                              DAILY MAIL (London)

                           November 19, 2011 Saturday

UK TERROR SUSPECTS ARE KILLED IN DRONE ATTACK

LENGTH: 333 words


Daily Mail Reporter

TWO British terror suspects are believed to have been killed in a U.S. drone
attack in Pakistan, according to their family and friends.

Ibrahim Adam and Mohammed Azmir are thought to have died in a CIA missile strike
in Waziristan, a remote and lawless region bordering Afghanistan.

Adama€[TM]s father confirmed that his son was killed by an American unmanned
aircraft.

A close friend of Azmira€[TM]s family, who did not want to be named, said:
a€˜They have taken it very badly a€" this is the second son who has been killed
in a drone strike.a€[TM]

It is not known precisely when the men died, but it is thought to have been at
least three months ago, according to a source with links to Pakistan. Adam, 24,
from Barkingside, east London, had been on the run from UK authorities since
absconding from a control order in May 2007.

His brother, Anthony Garcia, was jailed for life in April 2007 for his part in a
fertiliser bomb plot to attack targets in London and across the UK.

Adam was made the subject of a control order after being stopped while en route
to Syria after the British authorities claimed he was planning to travel to Iraq
or Afghanistan for terrorist training or to fight Western forces.

Father-of-three Azmir, 37, who was born in Sheffield and lived in Ilford, Essex,
was made the subject of a Treasury order freezing his assets in February 2010 in
response to concerns that he was involved in funding terrorism.

He is not currently on the Treasurya€[TM]s list of people and organisations
subject to fin-ancial sanctions.

It is believed that Azmira€[TM]s brother, Abdul Jabbar, 32, was killed in a CIA
unmanned drone attack in Pakistan in September last year.

The Foreign and Commonwealth Office could not confirm Adam and Azmira€[TM]s
deaths but said it was investigating the reports.

The Home Office declined to comment.

The Pakistani authorities have criticised the CIAa€[TM]s drone programme, which
is not pub-licly acknowledged by the U.S., as a violation of their
countrya€[TM]s sovereignty.

LOAD-DATE: November 18, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Papers


                   Copyright 2011 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              218 of 331 DOCUMENTS


                               Leicester Mercury

                           November 19, 2011 Saturday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

Terror suspects killed in attack;
NEWS IN BRIEF

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 109 words


TWO British nationals are believed to have been killed in a US drone attack in
Pakistan, family and friends of the men have said.

Terror suspects Ibrahim Adam and Mohammed Azmir are thought to have died in a
CIA missile strike on Waziristan, a remote and lawless mountainous region along
the border with Afghanistan.

Adam's father confirmed his son was killed by an American unmanned aircraft. It
is not known precisely when the men died.

Adam, 24, from Barkingside, east London, had been on the run from the UK
authorities.

Azmir, 37, who was born in Sheffield, and had lived in Essex, was made subject
to a Treasury order freezing his assets in February 2010.

LOAD-DATE: November 19, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: LEM


                        Copyright 2011 Leicester Mercury
                              All Rights Reserved

                              219 of 331 DOCUMENTS



                                 thetimes.co.uk

                    November 19, 2011 Saturday 12:04 AM GMT

Two Britons killed 'in US drone attacks' were suspected homegrown terrorists

BYLINE: Francis Elliott and Ben Macintyre

SECTION: ASIA

LENGTH: 584 words


Two British citizens have been killed in Pakistan by missiles fired from US
drones, according to the men's friends and families. They are the latest
reported casualties in America's growing campaign against suspected militants.

Ibrahim Adam and Mohammed Azmir, who had both been suspected of terrorist
activities, are believed to have died in a single strike in Waziristan at least
three months ago. Adam appears to have been able to leave Britain and enter
Pakistan despite absconding from a control order. Azmir's assets were frozen by
the Treasury last year.

The deaths of two Britons raises questions about the possible involvement of
British Intelligence in the CIA'"targeted killing" programme, according to the
British human rights group Reprieve, which is campaigning for more transparency
over drone strikes

"What we need to know is what role the British Government may have played in the
killing of two of its own nationals," said Cori Crider, legal director of
Reprieve. "Did UK officials provide the US with information which helped them to
target their attack on these two people? If so, is Britain now complicit in the
CIA's illegal campaign of drone attacks?"

The US is reported to have launched more than 300 drone strikes since 2004,
killing at least 2,000 people, including a disputed number of civilians.

Both men had brothers involved in terrorist activity, one of whom was killed in
an earlier drone attack. Azmir's brother, Abdul Jabbar, who died in September
last year, was reported to have been targeted because he was being groomed to
head an al-Qaeda splinter group planning terrorist attacks in Europe.

The CIA-run drone programme is not officially acknowledged by the White House,
and accurate records of those killed are all but impossible to collect in the
remote and mountainous border region used by insurgents.

The rate of missile strikes has sharply increased over the past year despite
objections by Pakistan to what it claims is a breach of its national
sovereignty. US officials have said that no civilians have been killed in recent
drone attacks, a claim disputed by tribal leaders and rights groups.

Azmir, 37, who was born in Sheffield and lived in Ilford, East London, was made
subject to a Treasury order freezing his assets in February last year in
response to concerns that he was involved in funding terrorism. He was the
father of three children. A close friend, who did not wish to be named, said
that Azmir's family had taken news of his death very badly. "This is the second
son who has been killed in a drone strike."

Adam, whose father said he believed that his son was killed by a drone, had been
on the run from the British authorities since absconding from a control order in
May 2007. He had been stopped in Syria because it was believed that he was
trying to get to terrorist training camps in Afghanistan or Iraq. Adam's
brother, Anthony Garcia, was jailed for life in 2007 for his part in a major
fertiliser bomb plot against Britain.

The Foreign and Commonwealth Office could not confirm the deaths but said that
it was investigating the reports. A Pakistan military official said that it was
impossible to verify the claim and that the country's intelligence service was
not aware of any British casualties. "We are not told of the targets of these
strikes, still less who might be collateral damage," the official said.

Two white British Muslim converts were killed by drones in December last year.
They were named as Gerry Smith, 25, and Mansoor Ahmed, 48.

LOAD-DATE: November 23, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication


                     Copyright 2011 News International Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                              220 of 331 DOCUMENTS


                              Western Daily Press

                           November 19, 2011 Saturday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

Brit terror suspects 'killed in US attack'

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 74 words


Two British nationals are believed to have been killed in a US drone attack in
Pakistan, family and friends of the men said yesterday. Terror suspects Ibrahim
Adam and Mohammed Azmir are thought to have died in a CIA missile strike on
Waziristan, a mountainous region along the border with Afghanistan. Adam's
father confirmed that his son was killed by an American unmanned aircraft. The
men are thought to have died at least three months ago.

LOAD-DATE: November 19, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: WDP


                    Copyright 2011 Northcliffe Media Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              221 of 331 DOCUMENTS


                       BBC Monitoring Europe - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                            November 20, 2011 Sunday

Bosnian court releases two suspects in terrorist attack

LENGTH: 263 words


Text of report by Bosnian Croat Mostar-based daily Dnevni list, on 17 November

[Unattributed report: "Scandalous - B-H Court Releases Terrorist Attack
Accomplices From Custody"]

Sarajevo - Acting on a proposal by which the defence attorneys for Haris Spago
and Emin Osmanagic sought release from detention of their clients and the
imposition of a restriction order, the Court of Bosnia-Hercegovina issued a
ruling in the case of Haris Causevic and others lifting the detention order
against detainees Spago and Osmanagic. At the same time, the court issued a
restriction notice which includes a ban on leaving their place of abode,
temporary confiscation of travel documents and a ban on obtaining news ones, as
well as a ban on using their ID cards to cross Bosnia-Hercegovina's state
borders. In addition, the defendants were also issued with a ban on assembly
with certain individuals and were ordered to report to a designated police
station once a week. If the defendants were to breach any of the orders, they
will be issued with a detention order again. Spago and Osmanagic were detained
on suspicion of a criminal act of aiding and abetting a perpetrator of a
criminal act after the act had been committed.

The indictment in the case of Haris Causevic and others charged Haris Causevic,
Adnan Haracic and Naser Palislamovic with a terrorist act in Bugojno which
caused extensive damage on a facility that belonged to the state of
Bosnia-Hercegovina, and resulting in the premeditated murder of one person.

Source: Dnevni list, Mostar, in Bosnian/Croatian/Serbian 17 Nov 11 p 7

LOAD-DATE: November 20, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2011 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              222 of 331 DOCUMENTS


                        BBC Monitoring Central Asia Unit
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                            November 20, 2011 Sunday

Kazakh leader compares recent terror acts with Breivik attacks in Norway

LENGTH: 142 words


Excerpt from report by corporate-owned Russian news agency Interfax

Moscow, 19 November: Kazakh President Nursultan Nazarbayev does not see
"organized roots" in terrorist manifestations [terrorist attacks in southern
town of Taraz] in Kazakhstan, and compares the recent tragic events in his a
country with no less tragic events in Norway, where a single terrorist Breivik
shot tens of innocent people.

"Terrorism is developing all over the world. Similar events have taken place in
Kazakhstan as well. However, they do not have some kind of organized roots. We
have got a type of Norwegian case when one person, say a bandit, just took it
and decided to kill people and himself," Nazarbayev said in an interview to the
Interfax and RIA Novosti news agencies in Moscow. [Passage omitted]

Source: Interfax news agency, Moscow, in Russian 0604 gmt 19 Nov 11

LOAD-DATE: November 20, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2011 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              223 of 331 DOCUMENTS


                                   The People

                               November 20, 2011
                                 3 Star Edition

GRIM GRAN;
Boozy Joan, 71 in weedkiller attack on her neighbours & sustained terror reign

BYLINE: Harry Miller

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 689 words


SHE screams at children, blasts out Queen all night and has even mocked a
suicide attempt, now a gran from hell has sprayed toxic weedkiller in a
neighbour's face.

Widow Joan Nisbet, 71, has been hit with a restraining order and served time
behind bars during a booze-fuelled campaign. But despite being threatened with a
longer sentence, the defiant OAP has refused to change - laughing that even when
she dies she'll be back to haunt the street.

Neighbours Paul and Lorraine Crawley moved in next door four years ago - and are
now desperate to get away.

Lorraine, 54, said: "We took her under our wing at first because she was old and
vulnerable. Little did we know she was the neighbour from hell.

"I started filming her because she was shouting at us again. As I walked past
her fence she started squirting the weedkiller at me and threatened to kill me.

"It was horrible - it started burning and my face all swelled up."

It was the culmination of a reign of terror.

When a previous barney ended with Lorraine severing a toe, Nisbet found it
hilarious.

Lorraine said: "I was mowing the lawn when she started at me from over the
fence. I shouted at her to leave us alone. As I turned around I dropped the
lawnmower and it sliced through my big toe and the two next to it.

"I managed to stagger to the house where my daughter started screaming. I could
hear Joan laughing from the garden."

Sleepless nights from Nisbet loudly playing Eminem, David Bowie and Queen made
Paul, 57, so depressed that he took an overdose of booze and pills.

Yard worker Paul, who is off with stress, said: "I just wanted it to end. We've
been living like this for years, day in day out. She's up all night, she doesn't
sleep. In one night we called the police 26 times but they didn't turn up until
6am."

Nisbet, of Kenley, Surrey, was given two suspended 26-week jail terms and a
restraining order in September after admitting harassment and common assault.
But she was back in court again last week. Croydon magistrates heard just five
days after the order was issued Nisbet was in the garden and laughing about
Paul's failed suicide bid.

Lorraine said: "She was shouting, 'Shame he couldn't get it VICTIM: right,' and
'Why don't you give it another go'?" Paul told the court: "It was like she was
celebrating. I had to go inside, it just felt like everything was closing in on
me. She has totally ruined my life."

PC Rory Burchett told the court Nisbet flashed her knickers at him and fellow
officers when he arrested her and was so drunk she couldn't get her coat on.

Nisbet denied breaching the order and said she had formally complained about PC
Burchett. She said: "He is a bigot and a bully and has always taken their side.
I haven't done these things."

Lorraine She was found guilty but she escaped jail. Magistrates reissued the
restraining order and gave her an 18-month community order to attend alcohol
counselling and victim awareness sessions.

Nisbet, a widow who no longer sees her daughter or granddaughter, has spent time
in prison on remand this year - and said she did not fear a return.

She declared: "Quite honestly I didn't find it that bad in jail. I kept asking
them to turn the water into vodka. When I die I'm coming back as a wicked spirit
and they'll know all about Nana."

Nisbet claimed the weedkiller incident was an accident. She added: "I am not
victimising anyone. It's jealousy - my house is a darn sight better than anyone
else's."

In 2004, she was fined pounds 150 and bound over for 18 months after being
convicted of harassment in a dispute with another neighbour, Maria Gunner.

Mum-of-four Maria, 40, said: "I'm scared to let my children play in the garden.
Joan will lean out of the window screaming and shouting at them. It's horrible.

"My eight-year-old is terrified of her. When we leave the house we always check
to make sure she isn't there."

A spokesman for Croydon Council said yesterday: "There has been a catalogue of
complaints about this woman. "We have been supporting her neighbours and the
police in attempting to get something done to restore the peace."

peoplenews@mgn.co.uk

LOAD-DATE: November 20, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:  VICTIM: Lorraine IN YER FACE: Spraying weedkiller NICKED: Police
officers arrest Nisbet OLD ENEMY Locals have been left terrified of Nisbet

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: tp


                           Copyright 2011 MGN Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              224 of 331 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                      November 21, 2011 Monday 1:37 PM GMT

Missiles will be ready to protect Olympics from terrorist attack

BYLINE: By Tim Ross

LENGTH: 408 words


MISSILES could be fired in London to protect the Olympic Games from terrorist
attack, Philip Hammond, the Defence Secretary, announced on Monday last week.

Mr Hammond said "all necessary measures" would be taken to ensure security at
the Games, including "appropriate ground-to-air defences", if such action is
recommended by the military.

The announcement came as it emerged that America had repeatedly raised concerns
about security at the Games and was preparing to send 1,000 agents to protect US
citizens. Mr Hammond was pressed on the subject of Olympics security in the
House of Commons by his predecessor, Dr Liam Fox.

Dr Fox, who resigned following allegations about his links to Adam Werritty, his
self-styled adviser, said surface-to-air missiles had been used at Olympic Games
since Atlanta in 1996.

He asked Mr Hammond to confirm that "there will be a full level of multi-layered
defence and deterrence for the London Games, including ground-to-air based
missiles in London".

The Defence Secretary replied: "All necessary measures to ensure the security
and safety of the London Olympic Games will be taken, including, if the advice
of the military is that it is required, appropriate ground-to-air defences."

As Dr Fox was Defence Secretary until last month, he would have been aware that
the security plans would include the potential deployment of missiles.

The Commons exchange followed reports of concerns among US officials that the
British security operation may not be rigorous enough to protect American
diplomats and competitors. American fears were said to have been heightened by
the summer riots, the arrest of a security guard at the Olympic site, the arrest
of six suspected terrorists before the visit of the Pope to the UK last year,
and the curbs to stop-and-search powers. Hundreds of FBI agents are expected to
be among the American security personnel.

A budget of £600 million has been allocated for safety and security at the
Games, but Olympics officials believe savings of £125 million can be made. The
Home Office insisted security planning for London 2012 was "on track".

Chris Allison, the Metropolitan Police Assistant Commissioner in charge of
security at the Games, played down reports of American concerns. He denied
security talks were suffering from interference from American diplomats,
insisting that the US had given "great support".

However, he told the BBC that the security operation would remain British.

LOAD-DATE: December 29, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTNS


                  Copyright 2011 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              225 of 331 DOCUMENTS



                               Belfast Telegraph

                           November 22, 2011 Tuesday
                                 Derry Edition

Terror of boy (8) as gunmen attack

BYLINE: DONNA DEENEY, ddeeney@belfasttelegraph.co.uk

SECTION: FRONT PAGE; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 110 words


THE Children's Commissioner has expressed her concern after a terrified
eight-year-old boy witnessed two armed and masked men force their way into a
house where they shot a man up to six times.

As children played on the streets, gunmen emerged from a laneway opposite the
house in the Creggan Road area of Rosemount in Londonderry.

Seeing the men with their faces covered, the little boy innocently asked them if
they were robbers -- only to be threatened.

The boy's mother said that her son was left badly traumatised.

She said: "My wee boy asked, 'Are you robbers?' and they said, 'Aye we are --
now get the hell out of here or we will kill you'."

CONTINUED ON PAGE 2

LOAD-DATE: November 22, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: BT


                Copyright 2011 Belfast Telegraph Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              226 of 331 DOCUMENTS



                               Belfast Telegraph

                           November 22, 2011 Tuesday
                                 Derry Edition

Boy's terror at gun attack;
Outrage at threat made to eight-year-old in shooting

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 410 words


"This is the first time he saw anything like this in his life and he was
terrified.

"He stuck beside me all evening with his arm in mine and was very quiet. He just
went into himself."

Northern Ireland's Children's Commissioner Patricia Lewsley-Mooney, who was in
Derry yesterday, said: "Although I do not know the exact circumstances behind
this incident, for me as Commissioner for Children and Young people the safety
and protection of children is always paramount, so reports of situations like
this when young people may have been put at risk are very concerning."

The 22-year-old shooting victim is recovering in Altnagelvin after he was shot
up to six times on Sunday evening.

The man was in his rented property when two men wearing balaclavas forced him to
the ground and fired three bullets into each ankle.

This attack comes less than a week after a 61-year-old man was shot several
times in the legs at his home in Ballyarnett.

Foyle MLA Pat Ramsey described Sunday's attack as "a despicable act that has
left the community of the Creggan Hill area in fear".

He said: "There is absolutely no place for guns, punishment shootings or
kangaroo courts in our society. I totally condemn this brutal attack."

Derry District Policing Partnership member, councillor Maeve McLaughlin, said:
"This is a very worrying incident and is the second time in just a few days that
guns have been used in our city. People do not want these actions taking place
on their streets and those behind them need to stop."

In the past six months, Rosemount Resource Centre has dealt with 60 cases where
people had been under threat of either expulsion or violence with 50 of the
cases being successfully resolved.

Tommy McCourt, from the centre, said efforts to establish why this young man was
targeted were continuing.

"We would normally be aware of over 95% of the cases where people are under
threat but I did not know this young man at all and I am still trying to find
out why he was targeted," he said.

"It certainly seems to have been a very serious incident if he was shot three
times in each ankle."

Detectives are appealing for anyone who witnessed the incident, or is able to
provide any information to contact them at Strand Road CID on 0845 600 8000.

Alternatively, if someone would prefer to provide information without giving
their details, they can contact the independent charity Crimestoppers and speak
to them on 0800 555 111.

CAPTION: Pat Ramsay: Condemned 'brutal attack'

LOAD-DATE: November 22, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: BT


                Copyright 2011 Belfast Telegraph Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              227 of 331 DOCUMENTS


                                  The Citizen

                           November 22, 2011 Tuesday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

MUM'S TERROR IN DRUG FUELLED ATTACK;
Girl, 13, hid in car

BYLINE: Dan Charles

SECTION: NEWS; FRONT PAGE; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 94 words


THUGS believed to be high on drink and drugs targeted a 13-year-old girl,
forcing her to flee Gloucester city centre. The youngster, from Hempsted, was
shopping with mum Yvette when the duo leapt from an alleyway off Brunswick Road
and started screaming at them.

The youngster had to run and lock herself in Yvette's car because they were
fearing a physical attack. The incident, described as "terrifying", has led to
claims Gloucester is not as safe as it used to be.

It happened in broad daylight. Yvette, 49, said: "We could not believe what was
going on."

¦ Page4

LOAD-DATE: November 22, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: ¦ FRIGHTENED: Yvette Wordsworth.
Picture: Robert Davis GLRD20111119E-003_C

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: CIT


                           Copyright 2011 The Citizen
                              All Rights Reserved

                              228 of 331 DOCUMENTS



                                   Metro (UK)

                           November 22, 2011 Tuesday
                                   Edition 1;
                                    Scotland

Arrested terror suspect 'ready' to attack the US

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 19

LENGTH: 132 words


AN 'al-Qaeda sympathiser' has been arrested over an alleged plot to bomb police,
post offices and returning US troops in New York.

José Pimentel, 27, was ready to carry out an attack when he was held on
Saturday, police said. 'We had to act quickly yesterday because he was in fact
putting this bomb together,' said Comm Raymond Kelly.

'He was drilling holes and it would not have been appropriate for us to let him
walk out the door with that bomb.' Pimentel, an American citizen originally from
the Dominican Republic, was motivated by terrorist propaganda and the killing of
al-Qaeda's US-born cleric Anwar al-Awlaki in September, it was claimed.

He was under surveillance for at least a year and 'appears to be a total lone
wolf', mayor Michael Bloomberg said. He was refused bail yesterday.

LOAD-DATE: November 22, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Dangerous: The effects of a pipe bomb are shown
Ready to attack: A pipe bomb allegedly made by terror suspect José Pimentel is
shown in court PICTURES: GETTY/REUTERS

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: MTRscot


                   Copyright 2011 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              229 of 331 DOCUMENTS


                        BBC Monitoring Central Asia Unit
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                          November 23, 2011 Wednesday

Nearly half of Kazakh people concerned over terror attacks - poll

LENGTH: 362 words


Excerpt from report by privately-owned Interfax-Kazakhstan news agency

Almaty, 22 November: Experts from the Kazakh Institute of Political Solutions
(IPS) have found out how [recent] terrorist attacks affected the social mood of
the Kazakh people.

"More than half of respondents - 58.1 per cent - expressed concern that the
attacks would recur. It should be noted that questions of the poll were prepared
before the Taraz events.

"Nearly half of the respondents - 46.5 per cent - felt a threat to the security
of their kith and kin. Thirty-seven per cent of urban dwellers did not express
such worries," the head of the IPS expert and applied department, Madina
Nurgaliyeva, said while presenting the findings of the social poll in Almaty
today.

[Passage omitted: on 12 November, a terrorist attack killed five police officers
and two locals - covered; two explosions occurred and a man blew himself up in
Atyrau on 31 October - covered]

Nurgaliyeva said that the respondents most often mentioned foreign and regional
(23.9 per cent) and Kazakh extremist groups (23.1 per cent) while assuming that
who was behind the terrorist attacks carried out in the country.

"One in five [of the respondents] (21 per cent), have difficulty to say who was
the masterminds of the terrorist attacks carried out in Kazakhstan," she said.

Nurgaliyeva said when asked "whether the government is capable of protecting the
population if need be", 46.2 per cent of the respondents were confident in this
partially, 27.5 per cent of them did not believe in the power of the state at
all and 14.5 per cent fully trusted the government.

"Overall, despite the recent events and the manifestation of various concerns,
the Kazakh people show quite a strong margin of resilience. Depression and
discontent were expressed by 8.7 per cent of urban dwellers, while 53.8 per cent
of the respondents were positive (calm and optimistic) about tomorrow,"
Nurgaliyeva concluded.

The IPS conducted the public opinion poll among the 2,294 respondents in the
country's 14 regional centres and in the cities of Astana and Almaty on 9-13
November.

Source: Interfax-Kazakhstan news agency, Almaty, in Russian 0716 gmt 22 Nov 11

LOAD-DATE: November 23, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2011 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              230 of 331 DOCUMENTS


                       BBC Monitoring Europe - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                          November 23, 2011 Wednesday

German parliament condemns neo-Nazi terror as "attack on democracy"

LENGTH: 869 words


Excerpt from report in English by independent German Spiegel Online website on
22 November

[Report by "dgs": "'An attack on democracy': German parliament condemns neo-Nazi
terror"]

"We are deeply ashamed," the German parliament declared in a joint statement
issued on Tuesday [22 November] condemning the crimes committed by a neo-Nazi
terror cell. Bundestag President Norbert Lammert apologized to the families of
the victims, who may now receive compensation from the German government.

In recent days, some observers have criticized the German government for not
taking a strong enough stand in reaction to revelations that a trio of neo-Nazis
apparently killed at least 10 people in a seven-year murder series. But on
Tuesday Germany's political class sent a strong signal that the country was
determined to fight right-wing extremism.

In a rare show of unity, members of the German parliament from across the
political spectrum issued a joint declaration condemning the murders. "We are
deeply ashamed that, following the monstrous crimes of the Nazi regime,
right-wing extremist ideology has spawned a bloody trail of unimaginable acts of
murder in our country," the statement read. "Right-wing extremists, racists and
anti-constitutional parties have no place in our democratic Germany," the text
continued, adding that steps should be taken to strengthen all democratic groups
committed to combating extremism, xenophobia and anti-Semitism. The declaration
also called for the structure of Germany's law enforcement agencies - which are
widely perceived to have failed in the case - to be reviewed.

It is very unusual for all the parties represented in the Bundestag to issue a
joint statement of this kind. The parliamentary group of Angela Merkel's
conservatives generally refuses to pass resolutions in conjunction with the
far-left Left Party, which it shuns because it is considered the partial
successor to the former East German communist party.

Apology for Suspicion

In a plenary session, the members of the Bundestag also debated what action
should be taken in response to the murders. Bundestag President Norbert Lammert,
a member of Merkel's conservative Christian Democratic Union, emphasized the
parliament's grief, shock and dismay at the murders. "We are ashamed that the
federal and state law enforcement authorities were unable to uncover or prevent
the crimes that were committed over a period of years," Lammert said. He added
that everyone in Germany had the right to live in safety, regardless of origin,
beliefs or sexual orientation.

Lammert also apologized to the families of the deceased for the "suspicion" that
had been placed on the murder victims. Investigators have been accused of
disregarding the possibility that the murder series, which targeted mainly small
businessmen of Turkish origin, might have had a right-wing extremist motive.
Instead, police focused on the theory that the murders were related to organized
crime, such as protection rackets, betting rings or money laundering - a
position that is now being criticized as racist in retrospect.

On Tuesday, Interior Minister Hans-Peter Friedrich, who has been at the centre
of the current debate on how to fight right-wing extremism, said that around 300
federal and state investigators were now working on the case. He told the
Bundestag that the killings were an "attack on our society ... and our
democracy."

"We are filled with horror and grief as day by day we learn more about the
murder series," Friedrich said. He promised that the crimes would be thoroughly
investigated and that everything would be done to "dry out ... the intellectual
swamp" that had inspired the crimes, a reference to the far-right milieu that
the terrorists had belonged to.

'Attack on Democracy'

Frank-Walter Steinmeier, the floor leader for the opposition centre-left Social
Democrats, said that the murders were "an attack on us all and on democracy
itself." Federal Justice Minister Sabine Leutheusser-Schnarrenberger called for
vigilance against all threats to democracy, "no matter what part of society they
come from." She played down criticism that the German state had been oblivious
to the threat from the far-right. "We are not blind in either eye," she said.

Other parliamentarians called for the role of the domestic intelligence agency,
the Office for the Protection of the Constitution, which is responsible for
monitoring political extremism, to be examined. There has been criticism of the
fact that the different state-level branches of the agency appear not to have
shared information with each other and with other authorities. Germany currently
has 16 state-level domestic intelligence services, as well as the national
agency, and there have been calls for some of those agencies to be merged.

On Monday, a spokesman for the German Justice Ministry confirmed that the German
government was considering paying compensation to the families of the murder
victims. The compensation would be set at around 10,000 euros per victim. The
spokesman said that the ministry was currently trying to get in direct contact
with the relatives of the deceased. [passage omitted]

Source: Spiegel Online website, Hamburg, in English 22 Nov 11

LOAD-DATE: November 23, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2011 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              231 of 331 DOCUMENTS


                            Manchester Evening News

                          November 23, 2011 Wednesday

Our horror at petrol bomb arson attack ... and we've no idea why ; Terror as
thieves try to smash door

BYLINE: WFnode

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 232 words


A MAN has told of the terrifying moment a petrol bomb was hurled through his
living room window, in what police say could be a case of mistaken identity.

Mike Barber, 65, said his wife Margaret, 64, had been so traumatised she has
been unable to eat since the attack.

Yobs targeted the couple's home in Serin Close, Offerton, at 9.15pm on Saturday
hurling a rock through the window, then a milk bottle full of a liquid believed
to be white spirit.

The crude device had a lit piece of paper in the top. It smashed, but luckily it
did not explode.

Bank cashier Margaret was in an upstairs bedroom. She rushed downstairs after
hearing a bang and phoned 999 when she realised what had happened.

Mike said: I just can't explain who has done it and why. The people responsible
are very dangerous they are idiots.

Someone who would do this can't be left out on the streets. When it is your own
home it is traumatic. It makes you suspicious and frightened. My wife has
stopped eating and I am concerned about leaving her alone.

Police are investigating and a panic alarm has been installed.

Watch manager Steve Johnstone, from Offerton fire station, said: Fortunately the
wick was blown out so nothing caught fire but this could have been horrific. We
don't know why this house was targeted but it could be a case of mistaken
identity.

Anyone with information can contact Crimestoppers anonymously on 0800 555 111.

LOAD-DATE: November 23, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: FRIGHTENED Mike Barber outside his home, which was targeted by a petrol
bomb Photograph Dominic Salter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2011 Manchester Evening News
                              All Rights Reserved

                              232 of 331 DOCUMENTS


                            Manchester Evening News

                          November 23, 2011 Wednesday

Free gym or swim for every reader ; Petrol bomb terror attack at home

BYLINE: Steve Howarth

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 4 words


see page 15   see page 5

LOAD-DATE: November 23, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2011 Manchester Evening News
                              All Rights Reserved

                              233 of 331 DOCUMENTS


                            Manchester Evening News

                          November 23, 2011 Wednesday

Petrol bomb attack couple's terror

BYLINE: WFnode

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 316 words


Alex Scapens

A MAN has spoken of the terrifying moment a petrol bomb was hurled through his
living room window.

Mike Barber, 65, of Offerton, says he and his wife Margaret have been left
frightened and suspicious' by the attack.

Margaret was in the house alone when the attack was carried out on Saturday at
9.15pm.

First a rock was thrown through the window and then a milk bottle full of what
is believed to be white spirit followed. It had lit paper stuffed into the top.

Police are treating the attack as arson with intent to endanger life but why the
home was targeted remains a mystery.

Mike, a concierge at W3 apartments in Manchester, said: I just can't explain who
has done it and why, but the people who did this are very dangerous, they are
idiots. Someone who would do this can't be left out on the streets.

Anyone who knows something should come forward otherwise they are almost as bad,
it means these people win you can only fight them by coming forward.

When it's your own home it is traumatic. It makes you very suspicious and a
little frightened. My wife has stopped eating and I am concerned about leaving
her alone.

The petrol bomb smashed on the living room floor, leaving glass and its contents
all over the floor. But it failed to ignite and no damage was caused.

Mike and Margaret, a 64-year-old bank cashier, live at the home, on Serin Close,
with their two dogs Buster and Harry.

Police are investigating and sent scene of crime officers and CID.

Firefighters from Offerton station have refitted smoke alarms and sealed up the
home's letterbox.

A panic alarm has also been installed at the house.

Watch manager Steve Johnstone said: Fortunately the wick had blown out so
nothing caught fire, but this could have been horrific.

We don't know why this house was targeted it could be a case of mistaken
identity.

Anyone with information can contact Crimestoppers anonymously on 0800 555 111.

LOAD-DATE: November 23, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: FEARFUL Mike Barber outside the boarded up window of his Offerton home
after it was petrol bombed in an attack that has left him and his wife Margaret
frightened and suspicious'

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2011 Manchester Evening News
                              All Rights Reserved

                              234 of 331 DOCUMENTS


                              Western Daily Press

                           November 24, 2011 Thursday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

Terror of 150ft office attack;
Man threw equipment at staff below ; Firefighters injured in drama at office
building

BYLINE: DOMINIC HARRIS

SECTION: NEWS; FRONT PAGE; Pg. 1,2

LENGTH: 404 words


Workers had to run for cover when a man hurled fire extinguishers, computers,
office chairs and desks at them from 150ft up in one of the South West's tallest
buildings.

The man set off fire alarms in the Castlemead building in Bristol and then
launched office files, computer monitors and hard drives onto staff from the
tenth floor as they gathered at evacuation points below.

A number of firefighters who were called to the scene were injured, and other
people are understood to have been hit by falling debris and shattered glass.
Workers in the 17-storey tower said the man set off fire alarms at about 7.20pm
on Tuesday. As staff evacuated the building he made his way to the tenth and
11th floors.

There he is thought to have run amok, wrecking office equipment and smashing
doors before setting off fire extinguishers, using them to smash windows and
throwing them towards the people below.

Much of the debris landed on the building's canopy above the entrance, while
more ended up on the balcony of Castlemead's Terrace restaurant.

The emergency services were called and a 49-year-old man was arrested at the
scene after being restrained by a fireman and a security guard. Police refused
to name the man but it is thought he could be a former employee of one of the
companies in the building, though this was unconfirmed by Castlemead's
management company, Knight Frank. He is being held in custody on suspicion of
burglary, and a separate investigation will be held to see whether charges of
assault can be brought following the injuries to the firefighters. The tenth
floor of the building is home of Equiniti, a banking business, while the 11th
houses TMP Recruitment Worldwide. One member of staff from the 11th floor said
his colleagues had been on the ground when the man went berserk.

The man, who asked not to be named, said: "Everybody who comes in has to flash
their pass to get through a turnstile, but apparently a guy managed to breach
the security on the front desk. The first thing anyone knew about it was the
fire alarm going off. "Everyone got outside to the fire assembly point out the
front, and then a fire extinguisher came flying out through the window. There
was a lot of glass and over the next few minutes a computer, a printer, a desk
and a chair came out through the same window." A police spokesman said the
49-year-old man had been arrested on suspicion of burglary and is currently in
custody.

LOAD-DATE: November 24, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: The scene outside the offices

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: WDP


                    Copyright 2011 Northcliffe Media Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              235 of 331 DOCUMENTS



                          Future News - Media Planner

                            November 25, 2011 Friday

3rd anniversary of Mumbai terror attacks

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 134 words


3rd anniversary of terrorist attacks on Mumbai which killed 174 including nine
gunmen and injured nearly 300 when militants armed with grenades and assault
rifles targeted six sites across the city incl the five-star Taj Palace and
Oberoi Hotels, the main CST train station, and Leopolds cafe. Sieges at the
hotels were finally brought to a conclusion on 29 November with 10 militants
identified, but only one of them - Pakistani national Mohammad Ajmal Qasab -
captured alive. He was sentenced to death in May 2010 but he remains in
detention as his appeal is pending in the Supreme Court. At least 28 foreigners
were killed incl one Briton and nationals from the U.S., Australia, Canada,
France, Germany, Israel, Italy, Japan, Singapore and Thailand

Event Start Date: 2011-11-26

Event End Date: 2011-11-26

LOAD-DATE: November 25, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                             Copyright 2011 Precise
                              All Rights Reserved

                              236 of 331 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                      November 25, 2011 Friday 9:30 PM GMT

Britain prepares for cyber war;
GCHQ and the Ministry of Defence are developing a British capability to launch
cyber attacks against hostile states and terrorists, the government has admitted
for the first time.

BYLINE: By Duncan Gardham Security Correspondent

LENGTH: 733 words


Two separate units in the Defence Cyber Operations Group are working on an
offensive capability to strike back at enemies trying to launch electronic
attacks on Britain's critical national infrastructure.

They are also likely to come up with computer programmes that could disable the
conventional or nuclear capabilities of hostile nations.

The move is a recognition of the importance of using computer "viruses" as a
weapon of war - both to spy on an enemy by extracting information and to attack
their operations.

Launching the government's new "cyber security strategy", the Prime Minister
said: "While the internet is undoubtedly a force for social and political good,
as well as crucial to the growth of our economy, we need to protect against the
threats to our security.

"This strategy not only deals with the threat from terrorists to our national
security, but also with the criminals who threaten our prosperity."

The document says that a "joint cyber unit" based at a military facility near
the Cotswold town of Corsham "will develop and use a range of new techniques,
including proactive measures to disrupt threats to our information security."

Another "joint cyber unit" based at the Cheltenham headquarters of GCHQ will
"develop new tactics, techniques and plans to deliver military effects through
operations in cyberspace."

The opaque language hides a strategy to develop an offensive capability to deal
with cyber threats, agreed at the National Security Council, sources confirmed.

It will involve using top secret weapons such as the Stuxnet worm that attacked
Iranian nuclear facilities last year - believed to have been developed in Israel
- and a virus used by GCHQ to replace an online bomb-making manual with a
cupcake recipe.

The government does not publicly name China and Russia, the sources of an
undeclared cyber war on the West, but the document says: "Some of the most
sophisticated threats to the UK in cyberspace come from other states which seek
to conduct espionage with the aim of spying on or compromising our government,
military, industrial and economic assets as well as monitoring opponents of
their regime."

It also says there is a danger that terrorists will begin using cyber weapons to
attack infrastructure such as water, power or banking systems.

"Cyberspace is already used by terrorists to spread propaganda, radicalise
potential supporters, raise funds, communicate and plan," the document says.

"While terrorists can be expected to continue to favour high-profile physical
attacks, the threat that they might also use cyberspace to facilitate or to
mount attacks against the UK is growing. We judge that it will continue to do
so, especially if terrorists believe that our national infrastructure may be
vulnerable."

Other dangers are posed by politically-motivated "hacktivists" whose
orchestrated attacks are becoming more common and by criminals "from all corners
of the globe" committing fraud "on an industrial scale" amounting to £27bn a
year in Britain alone.

Around half of a £650m programme to strengthen Britain's cyber defences will be
spent at GCHQ in Cheltenham on a classified programme to detect and counter
cyber attacks.

One of the key measures involves raising the standard of security expected from
suppliers of sensitive defence equipment.

"We are doing this...to prevent key data on equipment performance being
compromised by a foreign intelligence service before the kit even enters
service," the document says.

More than 20,000 malicious emails are sent to Government networks each month,
1,000 of which are deliberately targeting them, according to the strategy.

At the same time around 6 per cent of Britain's GDP is generated by the internet
and it is set to grow, making it a larger sector than either utilities or
agriculture.

"We have a strong tradition in the UK of protecting our citizens in ways that
are guided by core values of liberty, fairness, transparency and the rule of
law. These values help define who we are, what we do and what it means to be
British," the document says.

The strategy also says that GCHQ will explore commercial applications for their
top secret expertise and that a new cyber crime unit of so-called "i-Plods" will
be set up within the National Crime Agency, Britain's FBI.

The unit will help deal with the most serious national-level cyber crime and be
part of the response to major national incidents.

LOAD-DATE: December 29, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTNS


                  Copyright 2011 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              237 of 331 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring South Asia - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                           November 26, 2011 Saturday

Pakistan opposition party leader terms NATO attack "act of terrorism"

LENGTH: 94 words


Text of report headlined "Nawaz Sharif condemns NATO attack" published by
Pakistani newspaper The News website on 26 November

Lahore: PML-N president Nawaz Sharif has condemned the NATO attack on a
Pakistani check post and called it an act of terrorism, Geo News reported.

Sharif said that this attack was unacceptable while his brother Punjab Chief
Minister Shahbaz Sharif also condemned it.

Early Saturday morning in an unprovoked attack, 20 Pakistani troops including
two officers were killed by NATO forces.

Source: The News website, Islamabad, in English 26 Nov 11

LOAD-DATE: November 26, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2011 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              238 of 331 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                     November 28, 2011 Monday 11:47 AM GMT

Britain prepares cyber attacks on rogue states;
GCHQ and the Ministry of Defence are developing a capability to launch cyber
attacks against hostile states and terrorists, the government has admitted.

BYLINE: By Duncan Gardham Security Correspondent

LENGTH: 332 words


Two separate units in the Defence Cyber Operations Group are working on an
offensive capability to strike back at enemies who are trying to start
electronic attacks on critical national infrastructure.

They are also likely to come up with computer programmes that could disable the
conventional or nuclear capabilities of hostile nations.

Unveiling the "cyber security strategy", David Cameron said: "While the internet
is undoubtedly a force for social and political good, as well as crucial to the
growth of our economy, we need to protect against the threats to our security."

The document says that a "joint cyber unit" based at a military facility near
the Cotswold town of Corsham "will develop and use a range of new techniques,
including proactive measures to disrupt threats to our information security."

Another unit, based at the Cheltenham headquarters of GCHQ, will "develop
tactics, techniques and plans to deliver military effects through operations in
cyberspace."

The opaque language hides a strategy to develop an offensive capability to deal
with cyber threats, agreed at the National Security Council, sources confirmed.
It will involve using weapons such as a virus used by GCHQ to replace an online
bomb-making manual with a cupcake recipe.

The Government does not name China and Russia, the sources of an undeclared
cyber war, but the document says: "Some of the most sophisticated threats to the
UK in cyberspace come from other states which seek to conduct espionage with the
aim of spying on or compromising our government, military, industrial and
economic assets as well as monitoring opponents of their regime."

Under the cyber security strategy criminals who commit offences online and cyber
bullies will be banned from the internet. Similar orders have been imposed on
those charged with involvement in a series of cyber attacks by the Anonymous and
LulzSec groups earlier this year, while they await trial.

Cyber sanctions were also used following the riots this summer.

LOAD-DATE: December 29, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTNS


                  Copyright 2011 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              239 of 331 DOCUMENTS


                            Manchester Evening News

                            December 2, 2011 Friday

Vicki's on a mission to tell truth about youth ; Terror as highway robbers
attack lone women drivers ; Where's Wallace? He's walking to beat cancer

BYLINE: WFnode

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 24

LENGTH: 200 words


Our one in a million miracle baby   Plus more news - from page 32   A MAN gave
up his job and flat on his 30th birthday to raise money for a Manchester charity
trying to cure cancer. Matt Wallace has left behind his family and friends to
walk the length and breadth of the country, promoting the life-saving work of
Cancer Research UK. He is nine weeks into his six-month Where's Wallace?'
challenge to walk a 1,500 mile route between John O'Groats and Land's End. Matt
will visit scientists at the Paterson Institute for Cancer Research in
Manchester on Monday to find out about its efforts to find new treatments. So
far he has raised more than  £6,000 for the charity, which spends more than
£16m a year. He was inspired to support the good cause after a close family
friend died from cancer in 2008. Matt said: The scientists in Manchester are
essentially striving to save lives, which is why I wanted to raise as much as I
could to help Cancer Research UK continue with work. Matt left his job as a
press officer at Nottingham Trent University on his 30th birthday and said
goodbye to his luxury apartment in the city. James Dunphy, of Cancer Research
UK, said: He is a total inspiration.

LOAD-DATE: December 2, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: INSPIRATION' Matt Wallace
ANEWLIFE Charity fundraiser Matt Wallace looking at some of the work carried out
by the Paterson Institute for Cancer Research in Manchester

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2011 Manchester Evening News
                              All Rights Reserved

                              240 of 331 DOCUMENTS



                PA Regional Newswire of English Regions: LONDON

                      December 2, 2011 Friday 3:57 PM BST

NINE DENY TERROR ATTACK PLOT

SECTION: PA Regional Newswire for English Regions

LENGTH: 281 words


Nine men have denied plotting terror attacks on major London targets.

The potential targets are understood to have included the Stock Exchange, the
Houses of Parliament and the US embassy, as well as religious and political
figures.

The suspects, aged between 20 and 29, from Cardiff, London and Stoke-on-Trent,
were arrested following a series of dawn raids by counter-terrorism officers on
December 21 last year.

At London's Woolwich Crown Court, they pleaded not guilty to conspiring to cause
explosions likely to endanger life or damage property between November 1 and
December 21.

They also denied the allegation that they were preparing for acts of terrorism
between the same dates.

They are accused of agreeing on targets, discussing materials and methods,
carrying out reconnaissance work, attending operational meetings and downloading
and researching files ``containing practical instruction for a terrorist
attack''.

Five of the men are also accused of possession of a document ``containing
information of a kind likely to be useful to a person committing or preparing
for an act of terrorism''.

The defendants from Cardiff are Gurukanth Desai, 29, of Albert Street, Omar
Sharif Latif, 27, of Neville Street, and Abdul Malik Miah, 25, of Ninian Park
Road.

The defendants from London are Mohammed Moksudur Rahman Chowdhury, 21, of
Stanliff House, Tower Hamlets, and Shah Mohammed Lutfar Rahman, 29, of St
Bernard's Road, Newham, both east London.

The defendants from Stoke-on-Trent are Nazam Hussain, 26, of Grove Street, Usman
Khan, 20, of Persia Walk, Mohibur Rahman, 27, of North Road, and Abdul Mohammed
Shahjahan, 27, of Burmarsh Walk. The men are due to stand trial on January 23.
end

LOAD-DATE: December 2, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newswire


                  Copyright 2011 The Press Association Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              241 of 331 DOCUMENTS



                          Press Association Mediapoint

                      December 2, 2011 Friday 12:09 PM BST

NINE DENY TERROR ATTACK PLOT

BYLINE: Ella Pickover, Press Association

SECTION: HOME NEWS

LENGTH: 340 words


Nine men have denied plotting terror attacks on major London targets.

The potential targets are understood to have included the Stock Exchange, the
Houses of Parliament and the US embassy, as well as religious and political
figures.

The suspects, aged between 20 and 29, from Cardiff, London and Stoke-on-Trent,
were arrested following a series of dawn raids by counter-terrorism officers on
December 21 last year.

Today at London's Woolwich Crown Court, they pleaded not guilty to conspiring to
cause explosions likely to endanger life or damage property between November 1
and December 21.

They also denied the allegation that they were preparing for acts of terrorism
between the same dates.

They are accused of agreeing on targets, discussing materials and methods,
carrying out reconnaissance work, attending operational meetings and downloading
and researching files ``containing practical instruction for a terrorist
attack''.

Five of the men are also accused of possession of a document ``containing
information of a kind likely to be useful to a person committing or preparing
for an act of terrorism''.

The defendants from Cardiff are Gurukanth Desai, 29, of Albert Street, Omar
Sharif Latif, 27, of Neville Street, and Abdul Malik Miah, 25, of Ninian Park
Road.

The defendants from London are Mohammed Moksudur Rahman Chowdhury, 21, of
Stanliff House, Tower Hamlets, and Shah Mohammed Lutfar Rahman, 29, of St
Bernard's Road, Newham, both east London.

The defendants from Stoke-on-Trent are Nazam Hussain, 26, of Grove Street, Usman
Khan, 20, of Persia Walk, Mohibur Rahman, 27, of North Road, and Abdul Mohammed
Shahjahan, 27, of Burmarsh Walk.

Chowdhury, Mohibur Rahman, Miah and Shah Rahman are each accused of being in
possession of two editions of the al Qaida magazine Inspire and a document
titled ``39 ways to serve and participate in jihad''.

It is alleged Latif was in possession of the same document and Desai had the
spring and summer editions of the magazine on December 20 last year.

The men are due to stand trial on January 23.

LOAD-DATE: December 3, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newswire


                  Copyright 2011 The Press Association Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              242 of 331 DOCUMENTS



                            i-Independent Print Ltd

                                December 3, 2011
                                 First Edition

Nine men deny plotting terror attacks on London;
COURTS

BYLINE: Ella Pickover

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 24

LENGTH: 219 words


Nine men have denied plotting London terror attacks on targets understood to
include the Stock Exchange, the Houses of Parliament, the US embassy, as well as
religious and political figures. The suspects, aged from 20 to 29, are from
Cardiff, London and Stoke-on-Trent and were arrested in dawn raids on 21
December last year.

At London's Woolwich Crown Court they pleaded not guilty to conspiring to cause
explosions likely to endanger life or damage property between 1 November and 21
December. They also denied preparing for acts of terrorism between the same
dates. The men are accused of agreeing on targets, discussing materials and
methods, carrying out reconnaissance work, attending operational meetings and
downloading and researching files "containing practical instruction for a
terrorist attack". Five of the men are also accused of possession of a document
"containing information of a kind likely to be useful to a person committing or
preparing for an act of terrorism". The defendants from Cardiff are Gurukanth
Desai, 29, Omar Sharif Latif, 27, and Abdul Malik Miah, 25. Those from London
are Mohammed Moksudur Rahman Chowdhury, 21, and Shah Mohammed Lutfar Rahman, 29.
The defendants from Stoke-on-Trent are Nazam Hussain, 26, Usman Khan, 20,
Mohibur Rahman, 27, and Abdul Mohammed Shahjahan, 27.

LOAD-DATE: December 2, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: III


                      Copyright 2011 Independent Print Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                              243 of 331 DOCUMENTS



                            The Independent (London)

                           December 3, 2011 Saturday
                                 First Edition

Nine men deny plotting terror attacks in London;
COURTS

BYLINE: ELLA PICKOVER

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 185 words


Nine men appeared in court yesterday to deny plotting terror attacks on major
landmarks in London.

The gang's alleged targets are understood to have included the Houses of
Parliament, the Stock Exchange and the US embassy, as well as religious and
political figures.

The suspects, aged between 20 and 29 and from Cardiff, London and
Stoke-on-Trent, were arrested after raids by counter-terrorism officers on 21
December last year.

Yesterday, they pleaded not guilty to conspiring to cause explosions likely to
endanger life or damage property, and denied claims that they were preparing for
acts of terrorism between the same dates. They are to stand trial in January.

The men agreed targets, discussed materials and methods, carried out
reconnaissance work, attended operational meetings and downloaded and researched
files "containing practical instructions for a terrorist attack", it was alleged
at Woolwich Crown Court in south-east London.

Five of the men are also accused of possessing a document "containing
information of a kind likely to be useful to a person committing or preparing
for an act of terrorism".

LOAD-DATE: December 2, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: IA


                      Copyright 2011 Independent Print Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                              244 of 331 DOCUMENTS



                               Independent.co.uk

                     December 3, 2011 Saturday 12:00 AM GMT

Nine men deny plotting terror attacks in London

BYLINE: Ella Pickover

SECTION: CRIME

LENGTH: 185 words


Nine men appeared in court yesterday to deny plotting terror attacks on major
landmarks in London.

The gang's alleged targets are understood to have included the Houses of
Parliament, the Stock Exchange and the US embassy, as well as religious and
political figures.

The suspects, aged between 20 and 29 and from Cardiff, London and
Stoke-on-Trent, were arrested after raids by counter-terrorism officers on 21
December last year.

Yesterday, they pleaded not guilty to conspiring to cause explosions likely to
endanger life or damage property, and denied claims that they were preparing for
acts of terrorism between the same dates. They are to stand trial in January.

The men agreed targets, discussed materials and methods, carried out
reconnaissance work, attended operational meetings and downloaded and researched
files "containing practical instructions for a terrorist attack", it was alleged
at Woolwich Crown Court in south-east London.

Five of the men are also accused of possessing a document "containing
information of a kind likely to be useful to a person committing or preparing
for an act of terrorism".

LOAD-DATE: December 9, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBI


                  Copyright 2011 Independent News & Media plc
                              All Rights Reserved

                              245 of 331 DOCUMENTS


                            Manchester Evening News

                           December 3, 2011 Saturday

Prize pony cheats death after dog attack terror

BYLINE: WFnode

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 294 words


AN eight-year-old boy's pony has cheated death after being savaged by a dog.

Jacob Butler's prize-winning pony Nibbles was mauled by the dog which tried to
rip its throat out and caused other bite injuries. The dog is believed to be a
type of Staffordshire bull terrier.

Nibbles suffered a deep wound to his throat, which narrowly missed a jugular
vein, and cuts to his neck and cheek.

The attack happened in fields at Schofield Farm at Wolstenholme Fold in Norden.

Jacob's mum Lesley arrived at the farm to find eight-year-old Nibbles in a
distressed state with the animal latched on to his throat.

It is believed that Nibbles could have been protecting a five-month-old foal, a
nine-year-old mare and a larger pony belonging to Jacob's brother Joshua, 14,
because they managed to get away unscathed.

Mrs Butler, from Further Field, Norden, said: I arrived at the farm to give
Nibbles his meal and he came running towards me with the dog on him. He was
running for his life.

He must have charged through two gates in his struggle to get away.

Mrs Butler and the dog's owner fought to get the animal off Nibbles in an ordeal
that lasted about two minutes.

The dog finally let go when Nibbles collapsed to the floor.

The dog and its owner left the scene. Mrs Butler said: I shouted to the owner of
the dog 'where are you going?' and he just replied 'I'm getting my dog out of
here'.

I have reported this to the police and they said there is nothing they can do
because it is a civil matter.

Nibbles, who was recently declared gymkhana champion at the Leigh and District
Championships and was the overall competition winner last year, needed seven
stitches to a 4in long throat wound.

Mrs Bulter said: The vet said the wound was close to his jugular vein and it
could have killed him.

LOAD-DATE: December 3, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: by Katie Fitzpatrick
PRIZED PONY â ¦ Little Jacob Butler cuddles Nibbles after his ordeal and (inset)
the pony's wounded throat and neck after the dog attack Picture by Vincent Cole

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2011 Manchester Evening News
                              All Rights Reserved

                              246 of 331 DOCUMENTS


                                South Wales Echo

                           December 3, 2011 Saturday
                                 First Edition

Cardiff men in court to deny plotting London terror attacks

BYLINE: Ella Pickover

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 352 words


THREE men from Cardiff were among nine yesterday who denied plotting terror
attacks on major London targets.

The potential targets are understood to have included the Stock Exchange, the
Houses of Parliament and the US embassy, as well as religious and political
figures.

The suspects, aged between 20 and 29, from London and Stoke-on-Trent as well as
Cardiff, were arrested following a series of dawn raids by counter-terrorism
officers on December 21 last year.

Yesterday, at London's Woolwich Crown Court, they pleaded not guilty to
conspiring to cause explosions likely to endanger life or damage property
between November 1 and December 21.

They also denied the allegation that they were preparing for acts of terrorism
between the same dates.

They are accused of agreeing on targets, discussing materials and methods,
carrying out reconnaissance work, attending operational meetings and downloading
and researching files "containing practical instruction for a terrorist attack".

Five of the men are also accused of possession of a document "containing
information of a kind likely to be useful to a person committing or preparing
for an act of terrorism".

The defendants from Cardiff are Gurukanth Desai, 29, of Albert Street, Omar
Sharif Latif, 27, of Neville Street, and Abdul Malik Miah, 25, of Ninian Park
Road.

The defendants from London are Mohammed Moksudur Rahman Chowdhury, 21, of
Stanliff House, Tower Hamlets, and Shah Mohammed Lutfar Rahman, 29, of St
Bernard's Road, Newham, both east London.

The defendants from Stoke-on-Trent are Nazam Hussain, 26, of Grove Street, Usman
Khan, 20, of Persia Walk, Mohibur Rahman, 27, of North Road, and Abdul Mohammed
Shahjahan, 27, of Burmarsh Walk.

Chowdhury, Mohibur Rahman, Miah and Shah Rahman are each accused of being in
possession of two editions of the al Qaida magazine Inspire and a document
titled "39 ways to serve and participate in jihad".

It is alleged Latif was in possession of the same document and Desai had the
spring and summer editions of the magazine on December 20 last year.

The men are due to stand trial on January 23.

LOAD-DATE: December 3, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: sw


                    Copyright 2011 Western Mail and Echo Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                              247 of 331 DOCUMENTS


                                The Western Mail

                           December 3, 2011 Saturday
                                 First Edition

Men deny plotting terror attacks

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 175 words


NINE men, included three from Wales, yesterday denied plotting terror attacks on
London targets. The potential targets are understood to have included the Stock
Exchange, Parliament and the US embassy, as well as religious and political
figures.

The suspects, aged between 20 and 29, from Cardiff, London and Stoke-on-Trent,
were arrested following a series of dawn raids by officers on December 21 last
year.

Yesterday at London's Woolwich Crown Court, they pleaded not guilty to
conspiring to cause explosions likely to endanger life or damage property
between November 1 and December 21.

They also denied the allegation that they were preparing for acts of terrorism
between the same dates.

They are accused of agreeing on targets, discussing materials and methods,
carrying out reconnaissance work and attending operational meetings.

The defendants from Cardiff are Gurukanth Desai, 29, of Albert Street, Omar
Sharif Latif, 27, of Neville Street, and Abdul Malik Miah, 25, of Ninian Park
Road. The men are due to stand trial on January 23.

LOAD-DATE: December 3, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: wm


                    Copyright 2011 Western Mail and Echo Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                              248 of 331 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring South Asia - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                            December 4, 2011 Sunday

Afghan paper welcomes condemnation of terror attacks by Islamic convention

LENGTH: 434 words


Text of article entitled "Will Taleban actions be defended again?" published by
private Afghan newspaper Arman-e Melli on 4 December

A large number of Muslim scholars from around the world including a delegation
of Afghan scholars participated in a three-day Islamic convention in Turkey. The
resolution of the convention condemns war in Afghanistan and emphasizes peace
and peaceful coexistence.

This was the first Islamic convention of its type on this issue. The convention
should have been held in 2001 to prevent the Al-Qa'idah organization from
encouraging Muslims to fight in Afghanistan. Anyway, how can those who view
suicide attacks in Afghanistan as martyrdom attacks defend this action by the
terrorist Taleban in the face of the convention's resolution which has the
authority of a religious decree?

Afghanistan needed such a convention, which should have been held in Kabul.
Suggestions were made to the government of Afghanistan, but the Turkish
government and several other international organizations seized the initiative.
A follow up conference is due to be held in Kabul soon.

Many Muslims believe that what the Taleban do under the banner of Jihad is
against the Sharia Law and that the religious text does not allow for suicide
attacks and the killing of Muslims. Extremists, however, use propaganda tactics
and provoke the religious feelings of the youth and teenagers to prepare them
for suicide attacks and to use them as human bombs.

Irrespective of whether the conference will help decrease war and violence in
our country and in the world, Muslims were waiting to hear from prominent
religious scholars on this issue. It is a duty of the government of Afghanistan
to organize such major Islamic conferences in Kabul and take advantage of the
religious decree of the scholars for the rightful war of the Afghan national
forces. Many young people, who have been brain-washed, die for terrorist
organizations. By killing themselves and other Muslims, they present a violent
image of Islam to the world. If we take a look at the statistics showing the
number of young people converting to Islam in the West prior to the Al-Qa'idah
terrorist acts, we will notice that their numbers fell significantly after the
attacks. Analysts of Islamic thought believe that Al-Qa'idah and the Taleban
have done the biggest service to anti-Islamic organizations and they have
presented Islam as violent and extreme. It is a duty of all prominent religious
scholars around the world to remove the stain of terrorism and fear from the
humane teachings of Islam.

Source: Arman-e Melli, Kabul, in Dari 4 Dec 11

LOAD-DATE: December 4, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2011 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              249 of 331 DOCUMENTS


                                 Sunday Mercury

                                December 4, 2011
                                 First Edition

KNIFE MANIAC'S TERROR ATTACK;
Gran and shopkeeper fight off raiders in crime spree

BYLINE: MIKE LOCKLEY

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 603 words


THIS is the chilling moment an armed robber stormed a corner shop and brutally
battered the owner around the head with a baseball bat.

The CCTV images show the crazed thug also threatening Muhammad Shabbir with an
eight-inch knife during the terrifying 90 second raid.

Eventually, the bleeding dad-of-four managed to fight off the masked robber with
a chair, as his terrified 16-year-old son, Atif, cowered in a backroom.

The raider then turned and fled empty-handed from Hadley's Crescent Store in
Telford, Shropshire.

Last night, Shabbir, 36, recalled the terrifying robbery, which took place two
weeks ago.

He said: "I thought I was going to be killed. I was terrified at first and
couldn't do anything. I wanted to fight but he was waving the knife and I
thought it might cut my throat.

''He was also hitting my head and shoulders with the bat, there was blood
everywhere.

''He was screaming, 'Open the till!' and I was telling him to open it himself,
but he couldn't.

''I have a panic button and the police came within minutes."

Police are hunting the robber, who was also captured on CCTV running from the
premises.

Plucky Shabbir was taken by ambulance to nearby Princess Royal Hospital, where
his deep head injury was sealed. "I was very dizzy,'' he said. ''I still have
pain in my shoulder."

The robbery is the latest violent crime incident in the area in recent weeks,
according to locals who claim they could be linked to a drugs gang.

But the thugs bit off more than they could chew when they confronted disabled
grandmother Lindy Deans.

The tattooed 49-year-old stood up to the two men who burst into her home,
crashing a wine bottle over the head of one.

Lindy said: "I hit him with the bottle of Lambrini and he just stood there for
two minutes.

Screaming ''His head was shaking as if he was having a fit. The other was
screaming, 'she's crazy, she's never going to give us the money'."

In the fight that followed, 17 stone Lindy was repeatedly punched in the face
and body, suffering black eyes and severe bruising to her legs.

She added: "I managed to push him into the kitchen, picked up another bottle and
smashed it over the back of his head. They ran after that."

Lindy, who suffers from epilepsy, has also previously been the victim of a
burglary in which pounds 2,900 was taken and also had her windows put through.

"We've paid pounds 500 for a security system, but I don't feel safe,'' she said.
''The police need to do more." Other alleged local crime victims include a
pregnant woman who had jewellery ripped from her fingers and neck by a hooded
attacker who had burst into her front room.

One resident said drugs have tainted what was once a quiet, respectable area.

"You can see the deals being done on the streets, in the alleyways,'' they said.

"But the dealers round here provide a delivery service, so the addicts they're
recruiting - the ones breaking into our homes - aren't local.

"But it is definitely the dealers behind it. The police are not doing enough -
that's the general perception."

But Chief Inspector Richard Langton, of West Mercia Police, said the number of
burglaries and robberies in the Crescent Road area was ''not out of the ordinary
when compared to crime figures historically.'' He added: "We have looked at the
data available to us and we believe that perception about crime in and around
Crescent Road is actually far worse than the reality experienced by most
residents.

"In relation to concerns about drug crime in the area, we have executed nine
drugs warrants across Hadley during the past year - including some on Crescent
Road.''

LOAD-DATE: December 5, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: my


               Copyright 2011 Midland Independent Newspapers plc
                              All Rights Reserved

                              250 of 331 DOCUMENTS


                        BBC Monitoring Central Asia Unit
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                            December 6, 2011 Tuesday

Internet video shows inmates repenting of terror attack in Kazakh west - agency

LENGTH: 390 words


Excerpt from report by privately-owned Interfax-Kazakhstan news agency

Almaty/Atyrau: Video, allegedly recorded in a cell of a remand centre in Atyrau
(administrative centre of Atyrau Region of [western] Kazakhstan), has appeared
on YouTube on the Internet.

The video, filmed on a mobile phone camera, shows several young people repenting
of their deeds and warning their "Muslim brothers" against making the mistakes
they have made.

One of them speaks to camera to admit that he had links with Mujaheds. Another
young man says that he had maintained contacts over the Internet with members of
the Soldiers of the Caliphate terrorist organization.

"I would like to speak to brothers (in faith - Interfax-Kazakhstan) so that our
mistakes should not be repeated (...[ellipsis as published]). What I did was
sinful. From there I was instructed to arrange the explosions because our
brothers are being oppressed here. They (those who ordered the explosions -
Interfax-Kazakhstan) do not even think that during these explosions your
parents, children and relatives may suffer. Do not jump to conclusions, do not
listen to anybody. Do not do anything in Kazakhstan; everything is okay in our
country - prayers are allowed, one can easily pray in mosques and nobody is
oppressed. Live your mind," one of them called on the viewers.

"I would like to refer to the so-called 'Soldiers of the Caliphate', who
allegedly want to save Islam, but they are failing to do this; they, on the
contrary, are against it. Your deeds are doubtful. It is unrealistic to commit a
jihad in Kazakhstan," continued another young person shot on the video.

"We were not just imprisoned for nothing, we were arrested for a good reason. We
have already given testimonies in the case," another young man admitted.

Meanwhile, the press secretary of the correctional system department in Atyrau
Region, Bakhytgul Marazbayeva, told the Interfax-Kazakhstan news agency that
"there will be no comments during the investigation into the criminal case".

"We can only say that the circumstances are being clarified over the fact of
placing the video on the Internet, which was allegedly made in a detention
facility in Atyrau," Marazbayeva said.

[Passage omitted: two explosions took place on 31 October in Atyrau]

Source: Interfax-Kazakhstan news agency, Almaty, in Russian 0757 gmt 6 Dec 11

LOAD-DATE: December 6, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2011 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              251 of 331 DOCUMENTS


                            BBC Monitoring Kiev Unit
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                            December 6, 2011 Tuesday

Ukraine to step up security against terror attacks ahead of Euro-2012

LENGTH: 174 words


Text of report by commercial, news-based 5 Kanal TV on 6 December

[Presenter] Rescuers in the capital [Kiev] are preparing for possible terror
attacks during Euro-2012 [football championship]. Petrol stations and chemical
enterprises can be possible targets for such attacks. It is easier to cause
man-made disasters at these objects, the experts said. It was said that a
brigade of rescuers would be assigned to all Kiev hotels, fan-zones, training
grounds and stadiums during the championship. All in all, over 400 objects in
Kiev were estimated to be potentially dangerous.

[Vasyl Kvashuk, captioned as head of the civil defence department at the
Emergencies Ministry] In the first place, these are fuel and lubrication
facilities, warehouses, storage bases, as well as petrol stations. A decision
was made to substantially enhance the Emergencies Ministry's main directorates
in the city of Kiev, Donetsk, Kharkiv and Lviv, especially in the areas of
radiation and chemical protection.

Source: 5 Kanal TV, Kiev, in Ukrainian 1400 gmt 6 Dec 11

LOAD-DATE: December 6, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2011 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              252 of 331 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                      December 6, 2011 Tuesday 7:00 PM GMT

Afghanistan attack: pitiless logic of terrorism for its own sake;
The bloodiest chapter in Iraq's recent history opened with bomb attacks on Shia
pilgrims during the festival of Ashura six years ago. The atrocities in
Afghanistan have obvious parallels with that deliberate bid to ignite a
sectarian civil war.

BYLINE: By David Blair Chief Foreign Correspondent

LENGTH: 297 words


Yet there are also important differences. Al-Qaeda's organisation in Iraq made
no attempt to hide its responsibility for attacking Shia worshippers and
destroying the golden dome of one of their holiest shrines in February 2006. On
the contrary, al-Qaeda set out to begin a cycle of retaliation and revenge, with
Sunni and Shia turning upon each other. In the process, it tried to exploit the
insecurity felt by Sunni Iraqis, who feared a future where the country's Shia
majority would inevitably govern.

In Afghanistan, by contrast, the Taliban were quick to denounce the bombings and
deny culpability. That does not mean they were innocent: the Taliban and its
allies have a history of executing attacks then deciding whether to disown them
or claim responsibility. Lashkar-e-Jhangvi, an extremist group which has
operated alongside the Taliban, later said it carried out the attack.

The Taliban's condemnation of the incident was significant, suggesting that in
Afghanistan, armed groups have nothing to gain from open association with
sectarian violence.

The country has been relatively free of sectarian bloodshed, at least since the
Taliban were driven from power in 2001. In Pakistan, where attacks on its Shia
minority are regular occurrences, such atrocities would have carried far less
shock.

So what was the motive? Heather Barr, Afghanistan researcher for Human Rights
Watch, said it may have been to "wipe away any optimism" from the Bonn
conference on the country's future.

If so, this would provide a rationale for almost any act of violence. The
Taliban might deny any sectarian motive, but they appear to regard sowing terror
as a worthwhile objective in itself. When this pitiless logic takes over, it is
only a matter of time before minorities find themselves targets.

LOAD-DATE: December 29, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTNS


                  Copyright 2011 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              253 of 331 DOCUMENTS


                       BBC Monitoring Europe - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                           December 7, 2011 Wednesday

Italian foreign minister condemns "cowardly" terrorist attacks in Afghanistan

LENGTH: 128 words


Text of report by Italian leading privately-owned centre-right daily Corriere
della Sera website, on 7 December

[Unattributed report: "Afghanistan: Terzi deplores terrorist attack"]

Rome - Italy "condemns with the utmost firmness" the "cowardly attacks" that
have struck Afghanistan, and it confirms its "commitment in support of the path
leading to democracy" in the country, [Italian] Foreign Minister Giulio Terzi
wrote in a message addressed to his Afghan counterpart Zalmay Rassoul. I condemn
"with the utmost firmness such a senseless act of violence, perpetrated by
forces which, flying in the face of the feelings most sacred to mankind, are
seeking to attack your country's stability and democracy".

Source: Corriere della Sera website, Milan, in Italian 7 Dec 11

LOAD-DATE: December 7, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2011 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              254 of 331 DOCUMENTS


                      Coventry Evening Telegraph (England)

                           December 7, 2011 Wednesday
                                Nuneaton Edition

TEENAGER IN SEX ATTACK TERROR

BYLINE: Emma Stone

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 311  words


POLICE are hunting a man who followed a teenager from the city centre to a park
before sexually assaulting her.

The 16-year-old was walking through Spencer Park in Earlsdon when she was
approached by a man who inappropriately touched her chest.

When she called out for help, the attacker fled the scene.

The man is described as short - less than 5ft 3in - dark skinned, possibly
Indian, aged between 40 and 50 with short black hair.

He had a wrinkled face and possible scarring on his cheeks. He wore a black
jacket, a beanietype hat, which was cream or white with a black band around the
bottom of it, and beige or light brown trousers.

The incident happened on November 26. Officers believe the victim was followed
from somewhere around the Bull Yard in the city centre, through the subways
towards the train station and along Warwick Road to Spencer Park.

Detective Constable Krystal Mundy, of Coventry police, said: "This was a
particularly frightening experience for the victim. "The city centre was busy
when the offence took place as it was late night shopping in Coventry, so
someone will have seen this man before or after the incident."

The incident took place at about 6.30pm. Anyone who saw anything is asked to
call 101 and ask for officers in Coventry Police's Public Protection Unit.

In a separate incident, police sealed off part of a Coventry street yesterday
after an attempted assault was reported to officers. The incident is alleged to
have taken place in Alma Street, Hillfields, at about 2.20am yesterday morning.

Part of the street was cordoned off and officers remained at the scene while
investigations took place.

A spokesman for Coventry Police said: "Police were called at around 2.20am to
reports of an attempted assault in Alma Street. A small area was cordoned off so
officers could conduct their inquiries.

Witnesses should contact 0345 113 5000.

LOAD-DATE: December 7, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2011 Coventry Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              255 of 331 DOCUMENTS



                                   The Mirror

                           December 7, 2011 Wednesday
                                 3 Star Edition

SIX CONCRETE ATTACKS ON TERROR NIGHT;
THUGS

BYLINE: TOM PETTIFOR; LOUIE SMITH

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 128 words


CONCRETE-throwing thugs dropped six deadly blocks in one night during a reign of
terror on the same road as recent attacks.

Two cars were hit last week, leaving one woman of 57 in hospital with severe
injuries.

The other victim, Lisa Horne, was so scared she said she would never again use
the A12, near Brentwood, in Essex.

Police are probing if Thursday's incidents are linked to six attacks on November
12, 2008, and two more 10 days later.

One of the victims at the time, trucker David Greenwood, 52, suffered a shoulder
injury when his lorry was hit, causing pounds 7,000 damage.

He accused police of being "flippant" after he reported the attack.

Det Chief Insp Keith Davies, from Essex Police, said he would speak to all of
the victims again as part of his investigation.

LOAD-DATE: December 9, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: HORROR J Bridge over A12

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                            Copyright 2011 MGN Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              256 of 331 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring South Asia - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                           December 8, 2011 Thursday

Pakistan condemns terror attacks in Afghanistan

LENGTH: 110 words


Text of report by official news agency Associated Press of Pakistan (APP)

Islamabad, 8 Dec: Pakistan has strongly condemned the terrorist incidents in
Kabul and Mazar-i-Sharif resulting loss of lives.

Foreign Office spokesman in a statement issued here Thursday [8 December] said:
"We strongly condemn the reprehensible terrorist actions in Kabul and
Mazar-i-Sharif resulting in the loss of over 60 innocent lives."

The foreign office spokesman said the government and the people of Pakistan are
grieved and stand by the brotherly people of Afghanistan at this difficult time.

Source: Associated Press of Pakistan news agency, Islamabad, in English 0731gmt
08 Dec 11

LOAD-DATE: December 8, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2011 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              257 of 331 DOCUMENTS


                       BBC Monitoring Europe - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                           December 8, 2011 Thursday

Turkey condemns recent terrorist attacks in Iraq

LENGTH: 161 words


Text of report in English by Turkish semi-official news agency Anatolia

["Turkey condemns terrorist attacks in Iraq" - AA headline]

Ankara: Turkey condemned terrorist attacks staged in Hilla and Baghdad cities of
Iraq the previous day, a statement by the Ministry of Foreign Affairs said on
Wednesday [7 December].

The statement said that at least 30 people including women and children were
killed and more than 100 people were injured in terrorist attacks during Ashura
ritual in Baghdad and Hilla.

Turkey offered its condolences to relatives of those who were killed in these
attacks, it said.

Turkey believed that Iraqi people would act with common sense and not allow a
spiral of violence in their country, it said.

The statement said that Turkey, which has done its utmost for peace and
stability in Iraq, would have cooperation and solidarity with Iraqi government
and people in combating terrorism."

Source: Anatolia news agency, Ankara, in English 1658 gmt 7 Dec 11

LOAD-DATE: December 8, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2011 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              258 of 331 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring Middle East - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                           December 8, 2011 Thursday

Kuwait renews condemnation of Kabul terrorist attacks

LENGTH: 178 words


Text of report in English by Kuwaiti government-owned news agency Kuna website

["Kuwait renews condemnation of Kabul terrorist attacks"]

Kuwait, 8 December - Deputy Prime Minister and Foreign Minister Shaykh Sabah
Al-Khalid Al-Hamad Al-Sabah on Thursday [8 December] renewed Kuwait's
condemnation of terrorist attacks that hit the Afghan capital, Kabul.

Voicing Kuwait's rejection of terrorism in all its shapes, Shaykh Sabah
Al-Khalid called on the international community to cooperate in order to combat
this dangerous phenomenon.

Kuwait's top diplomat sent a cable to his Afghan counterpart Zalmai Rassoul, in
which he expressed the Gulf country's strong condemnation to the latest
terrorist attacks that targeted innocent people in the religious shrines last
Tuesday and resulted in dozens of fatalities.

The cable was also enclosed with heartfelt condolences to families of the
victims and the injured, as well as the support of Kuwait to Afghanistan to
bring security and stability to the country.

Source: Kuna news agency website, Kuwait, in English 1150 gmt 8 Dec 11

LOAD-DATE: December 8, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2011 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              259 of 331 DOCUMENTS


                            Manchester Evening News

                           December 8, 2011 Thursday

City fan stabbed in knife attack terror

BYLINE: WFnode

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 338 words


A CITY fan has called on European football's governing body to investigate after
he was stabbed in Naples.

Chris Taggart, from Blackley, suffered a deep wound when an Italian thug plunged
a knife into his side following the Champions League match against Napoli.

Student Chris, 19, said he was stabbed as he tried to help his father when they
were set upon by blade-wielding hooligans.

He told of the terrifying moment scores of armed thugs emerged from the darkness
to ambush them. And he claimed they were only saved when an undercover police
officer armed with a gun intervened.

Italian police said there was no disorder at the match after they launched a
huge security operation. But Chris said their claim was 'nonsense' and
'dangerous'.

Now he wants UEFA to step in to make sure there is no repeat at future matches
involving the Italian club.

Worried City officials wrote to the 800 fans who made the trip after visiting
supporters were slashed on previous visits.

They asked Blues fans to gather at the port and to use coaches laid on to take
them to and from the ground.

But Chris said that when they were dropped off after the match, which City lost
2-1, their police escort abandoned them.

He said: None of us had any colours on show and we were keeping ourselves to
ourselves.

All of a sudden two blokes ran out of an alley with knives. One went to stab my
dad in the back so I've run over and hit him and as he was going down he has
stabbed me in my side.

Loads of them came out on moped waving knives, then shouting 'Manchester,
Manchester' and everyone tried to leg it. It was bizarre. A car then stopped in
the middle of this and a bloke got out of it with a gun in his hand. It turns
out he was an undercover police officer and all the Italians ran off.

I was taken to hospital and it was pretty deep and near my kidney but it was all
right.

Chris added: People need to know that this is what it's like when you go to
Napoli. If United or anyone else goes they need to know it's not what the
Italian police have been saying.

LOAD-DATE: December 19, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: STABBED ... Blues fan Chris Taggart
by Pamela Welsh

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2011 Manchester Evening News
                              All Rights Reserved

                              260 of 331 DOCUMENTS


                            Manchester Evening News

                           December 8, 2011 Thursday

City fan stabbed in knife attack terror

BYLINE: WFnode

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 338 words


A CITY fan has called on European football's governing body to investigate after
he was stabbed in Naples.

Chris Taggart, from Blackley, suffered a deep wound when an Italian thug plunged
a knife into his side following the Champions League match against Napoli.

Student Chris, 19, said he was stabbed as he tried to help his father when they
were set upon by blade-wielding hooligans.

He told of the terrifying moment scores of armed thugs emerged from the darkness
to ambush them. And he claimed they were only saved when an undercover police
officer armed with a gun intervened.

Italian police said there was no disorder at the match after they launched a
huge security operation. But Chris said their claim was 'nonsense' and
'dangerous'.

Now he wants UEFA to step in to make sure there is no repeat at future matches
involving the Italian club.

Worried City officials wrote to the 800 fans who made the trip after visiting
supporters were slashed on previous visits.

They asked Blues fans to gather at the port and to use coaches laid on to take
them to and from the ground.

But Chris said that when they were dropped off after the match, which City lost
2-1, their police escort abandoned them.

He said: None of us had any colours on show and we were keeping ourselves to
ourselves.

All of a sudden two blokes ran out of an alley with knives. One went to stab my
dad in the back so I've run over and hit him and as he was going down he has
stabbed me in my side.

Loads of them came out on moped waving knives, then shouting 'Manchester,
Manchester' and everyone tried to leg it. It was bizarre. A car then stopped in
the middle of this and a bloke got out of it with a gun in his hand. It turns
out he was an undercover police officer and all the Italians ran off.

I was taken to hospital and it was pretty deep and near my kidney but it was all
right.

Chris added: People need to know that this is what it's like when you go to
Napoli. If United or anyone else goes they need to know it's not what the
Italian police have been saying.

LOAD-DATE: December 29, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: STABBED ... Blues fan Chris Taggart
by Pamela Welsh

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2011 Manchester Evening News
                              All Rights Reserved

                              261 of 331 DOCUMENTS


                            Manchester Evening News

                           December 8, 2011 Thursday

City fan stabbed in knife attack terror

BYLINE: WFnode

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 338 words


A CITY fan has called on European football's governing body to investigate after
he was stabbed in Naples.

Chris Taggart, from Blackley, suffered a deep wound when an Italian thug plunged
a knife into his side following the Champions League match against Napoli.

Student Chris, 19, said he was stabbed as he tried to help his father when they
were set upon by blade-wielding hooligans.

He told of the terrifying moment scores of armed thugs emerged from the darkness
to ambush them. And he claimed they were only saved when an undercover police
officer armed with a gun intervened.

Italian police said there was no disorder at the match after they launched a
huge security operation. But Chris said their claim was 'nonsense' and
'dangerous'.

Now he wants UEFA to step in to make sure there is no repeat at future matches
involving the Italian club.

Worried City officials wrote to the 800 fans who made the trip after visiting
supporters were slashed on previous visits.

They asked Blues fans to gather at the port and to use coaches laid on to take
them to and from the ground.

But Chris said that when they were dropped off after the match, which City lost
2-1, their police escort abandoned them.

He said: None of us had any colours on show and we were keeping ourselves to
ourselves.

All of a sudden two blokes ran out of an alley with knives. One went to stab my
dad in the back so I've run over and hit him and as he was going down he has
stabbed me in my side.

Loads of them came out on moped waving knives, then shouting 'Manchester,
Manchester' and everyone tried to leg it. It was bizarre. A car then stopped in
the middle of this and a bloke got out of it with a gun in his hand. It turns
out he was an undercover police officer and all the Italians ran off.

I was taken to hospital and it was pretty deep and near my kidney but it was all
right.

Chris added: People need to know that this is what it's like when you go to
Napoli. If United or anyone else goes they need to know it's not what the
Italian police have been saying.

LOAD-DATE: January 6, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: STABBED ... Blues fan Chris Taggart
by Pamela Welsh

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2011 Manchester Evening News
                              All Rights Reserved

                              262 of 331 DOCUMENTS


                            Manchester Evening News

                           December 8, 2011 Thursday

City fan stabbed in knife attack terror

BYLINE: WFnode

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 338 words


A CITY fan has called on European football's governing body to investigate after
he was stabbed in Naples.

Chris Taggart, from Blackley, suffered a deep wound when an Italian thug plunged
a knife into his side following the Champions League match against Napoli.

Student Chris, 19, said he was stabbed as he tried to help his father when they
were set upon by blade-wielding hooligans.

He told of the terrifying moment scores of armed thugs emerged from the darkness
to ambush them. And he claimed they were only saved when an undercover police
officer armed with a gun intervened.

Italian police said there was no disorder at the match after they launched a
huge security operation. But Chris said their claim was 'nonsense' and
'dangerous'.

Now he wants UEFA to step in to make sure there is no repeat at future matches
involving the Italian club.

Worried City officials wrote to the 800 fans who made the trip after visiting
supporters were slashed on previous visits.

They asked Blues fans to gather at the port and to use coaches laid on to take
them to and from the ground.

But Chris said that when they were dropped off after the match, which City lost
2-1, their police escort abandoned them.

He said: None of us had any colours on show and we were keeping ourselves to
ourselves.

All of a sudden two blokes ran out of an alley with knives. One went to stab my
dad in the back so I've run over and hit him and as he was going down he has
stabbed me in my side.

Loads of them came out on moped waving knives, then shouting 'Manchester,
Manchester' and everyone tried to leg it. It was bizarre. A car then stopped in
the middle of this and a bloke got out of it with a gun in his hand. It turns
out he was an undercover police officer and all the Italians ran off.

I was taken to hospital and it was pretty deep and near my kidney but it was all
right.

Chris added: People need to know that this is what it's like when you go to
Napoli. If United or anyone else goes they need to know it's not what the
Italian police have been saying.

LOAD-DATE: January 16, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: STABBED ... Blues fan Chris Taggart
by Pamela Welsh

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2011 Manchester Evening News
                              All Rights Reserved

                              263 of 331 DOCUMENTS


                            Manchester Evening News

                           December 8, 2011 Thursday

City fan stabbed in knife attack terror

BYLINE: WFnode

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 338 words


A CITY fan has called on European football's governing body to investigate after
he was stabbed in Naples.

Chris Taggart, from Blackley, suffered a deep wound when an Italian thug plunged
a knife into his side following the Champions League match against Napoli.

Student Chris, 19, said he was stabbed as he tried to help his father when they
were set upon by blade-wielding hooligans.

He told of the terrifying moment scores of armed thugs emerged from the darkness
to ambush them. And he claimed they were only saved when an undercover police
officer armed with a gun intervened.

Italian police said there was no disorder at the match after they launched a
huge security operation. But Chris said their claim was 'nonsense' and
'dangerous'.

Now he wants UEFA to step in to make sure there is no repeat at future matches
involving the Italian club.

Worried City officials wrote to the 800 fans who made the trip after visiting
supporters were slashed on previous visits.

They asked Blues fans to gather at the port and to use coaches laid on to take
them to and from the ground.

But Chris said that when they were dropped off after the match, which City lost
2-1, their police escort abandoned them.

He said: None of us had any colours on show and we were keeping ourselves to
ourselves.

All of a sudden two blokes ran out of an alley with knives. One went to stab my
dad in the back so I've run over and hit him and as he was going down he has
stabbed me in my side.

Loads of them came out on moped waving knives, then shouting 'Manchester,
Manchester' and everyone tried to leg it. It was bizarre. A car then stopped in
the middle of this and a bloke got out of it with a gun in his hand. It turns
out he was an undercover police officer and all the Italians ran off.

I was taken to hospital and it was pretty deep and near my kidney but it was all
right.

Chris added: People need to know that this is what it's like when you go to
Napoli. If United or anyone else goes they need to know it's not what the
Italian police have been saying.

LOAD-DATE: February 1, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: STABBED ... Blues fan Chris Taggart
by Pamela Welsh

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2011 Manchester Evening News
                              All Rights Reserved

                              264 of 331 DOCUMENTS


                            Manchester Evening News

                           December 8, 2011 Thursday

City fan stabbed in knife attack terror

BYLINE: WFnode

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 338 words


A CITY fan has called on European football's governing body to investigate after
he was stabbed in Naples.

Chris Taggart, from Blackley, suffered a deep wound when an Italian thug plunged
a knife into his side following the Champions League match against Napoli.

Student Chris, 19, said he was stabbed as he tried to help his father when they
were set upon by blade-wielding hooligans.

He told of the terrifying moment scores of armed thugs emerged from the darkness
to ambush them. And he claimed they were only saved when an undercover police
officer armed with a gun intervened.

Italian police said there was no disorder at the match after they launched a
huge security operation. But Chris said their claim was 'nonsense' and
'dangerous'.

Now he wants UEFA to step in to make sure there is no repeat at future matches
involving the Italian club.

Worried City officials wrote to the 800 fans who made the trip after visiting
supporters were slashed on previous visits.

They asked Blues fans to gather at the port and to use coaches laid on to take
them to and from the ground.

But Chris said that when they were dropped off after the match, which City lost
2-1, their police escort abandoned them.

He said: None of us had any colours on show and we were keeping ourselves to
ourselves.

All of a sudden two blokes ran out of an alley with knives. One went to stab my
dad in the back so I've run over and hit him and as he was going down he has
stabbed me in my side.

Loads of them came out on moped waving knives, then shouting 'Manchester,
Manchester' and everyone tried to leg it. It was bizarre. A car then stopped in
the middle of this and a bloke got out of it with a gun in his hand. It turns
out he was an undercover police officer and all the Italians ran off.

I was taken to hospital and it was pretty deep and near my kidney but it was all
right.

Chris added: People need to know that this is what it's like when you go to
Napoli. If United or anyone else goes they need to know it's not what the
Italian police have been saying.

LOAD-DATE: February 13, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: STABBED ... Blues fan Chris Taggart
by Pamela Welsh

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2011 Manchester Evening News
                              All Rights Reserved

                              265 of 331 DOCUMENTS


                                South Wales Echo

                           December 8, 2011 Thursday
                                 First Edition

'Huge bang as brick hit car';
Mum describes moment of terror when yobs attacked Corsa

BYLINE: Clare Hutchinson

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 419 words


A MUM has described the moment her family car was hit by a brick as she drove
along a busy dual carriageway.

Michelle Brace, 47, her husband Keith, 64, and their son Lewis, 15, were driving
home to Caerphilly from an outing in Penarth when the brick hit the front
passenger door, narrowly missing the window.

The Vauxhall Corsa was one of two cars damaged on Sunday when concrete rubble
and other missiles - including a rug and a chair - were thrown on to the A4232
Cardiff link road near the Butetown tunnels.

The second car, a Mini Cooper, was left with a broken windscreen, while the
driver of a Ford Fiesta was forced to swerve to avoid hitting the items in the
road.

A shaken Michelle last night described the moment their car was hit. She said:
"I have never heard anything so loud. We were just coming off the slipway from
the roundabout by Asda and I was looking over my right shoulder to pull out when
all of a sudden we heard this huge bang and the car jolted.

"It was all I could do to keep the car on the road and in the right lane. We
knew we had been hit by something and we knew it must have done a lot of
damage."

When the family pulled off at the next junction, they discovered the missile had
made a deep dent in the door.

"If it had hit just a few millimetres higher it would have smashed the window,"
said Michelle. "At the time we were doing about 40 or 50mph. My husband could
have been seriously injured, not to mention my son and I if the car had
crashed."

She said the noise from the impact was so loud their border terrier Rufus, who
was in the car, was severely shaken.

She added: "These actions could very easily have killed someone and whoever did
this would have found themselves going to prison for many years.

"I would ask parents to consider sitting their children down to talk to them
about the dangers, especially if they think they are out on their own or with
groups.

"We are very, very fortunate - it could easily have been so much worse."

Sergeant Brian Allsopp, of South Wales Police, added: "We are appealing for
anyone who may have witnessed the objects being thrown from the side of the
carriageway, or who saw anyone in the vicinity carrying these objects, to call
police.

"This behaviour was totally reckless and we are committed to apprehending those
responsible."

Call 101 or Crimestoppers anonymously on 0800 555111.

¦ Two 13-year-old boys from the Grangetown area have been arrested in connection
with the incident and bailed pending further inquiries.

LOAD-DATE: December 8, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:  ¦ Wednesday's Echo when we first reported the incident ¦ Michelle,
Keith and Lewis Brace, from Caerphilly, whose car was struck by a missile as
they joined the A4232 Cardiff link road

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: sw


                    Copyright 2011 Western Mail and Echo Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                              266 of 331 DOCUMENTS


                       BBC Monitoring Europe - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                            December 9, 2011 Friday

Turkey condemns terrorist attack in Afghanistan

LENGTH: 131 words


Text of report in English by Turkish semi-official news agency Anatolia

["Turkish MFA condemns attack in Afghanistan" - AA headline]

Ankara: Turkish Ministry of Foreign Affairs (MFA) condemned Wednesday's [8
December] attack in Afghan province of Helmand that killed 19 people.

In a statement released on Thursday, the MFA condemned the terror act in
Afghanistan.

We wish God's mercy for those killed, offer condolences to the families of those
who died and wish speedy recovery to the injured individuals, the MFA said.

Those who staged the terrorist act on Wednesday have to understand that they can
not reach their aims by terror. Turkey will always be in solidarity with its
Afghan brothers and sisters, the MFA also said.

Source: Anatolia news agency, Ankara, in English 1603 gmt 8 Dec 11

LOAD-DATE: December 9, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2011 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              267 of 331 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring Middle East - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                            December 9, 2011 Friday

Syrian authorities blame "terrorist group" for oil pipeline attack

LENGTH: 316 words


Text of report in English by state-run Syrian news agency SANA website;
subheading as published

["Armed Terrorist Group Targets Crude Oil Transfer Pipeline in Homs" - SANA
headline.]

Armed Terrorist Group Targets Crude Oil Transfer Pipeline in Homs Dec 08, 2011

Homs, 8 December (SANA) - An armed terrorist group on Thursday [8 December]
opened fire on a crude oil transfer pipeline in Al-Sultaniyih area to the
northwest of the refinery of Homs [western Syria], causing a huge fire.

An official source at Ministry of Petroleum and Mineral Resources told SANA that
the damaged oil pipeline is 24-diameter and used to transport oil from Dir Izzur
to Baniyas.

Authorities rushed to the spot, extinguished the fire, stopped pumping oil into
the targeted pipeline and shifted it to alternative pipes. Last July, subversive
groups targeted an oil pipeline near Tal Hush Dam in Tal Kalakh with an
explosive bomb, leaving a hole of 15-meter in diameter and causing oil leak.
Last November, in Dir Izzur, al-Muhash oil pipeline transportation was also
targeted at the point of intersection of the pipeline that transports oil from
al-Kharata oil field to al-Teem one about 15 kilometres southwest of the city.

Weapons Seized, Terrorists Arrested, Citizen Released in Homs

In the same context, authorities in the central region on Thursday seized
anti-tank weapons and RPGs hidden in a field in Talkalakh area in Homs. SANA
correspondent said that citizens of Al-Arman neighbourhood in Homs City arrested
two terrorists and released the citizen kidnapped from the car they were driving
while shooting citizens in the neighbourhood.

Earlier, on Wednesday night, Homs customs patrol clashed with an armed terrorist
group in Sadad area, east of Homs. The clash resulted in injuring the customs
guard Thair Al-Ajuz and wounding a number of terrorists.

Source: SANA news agency website, Damascus in English 8 Dec 11

LOAD-DATE: December 9, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2011 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              268 of 331 DOCUMENTS


                            Manchester Evening News

                            December 9, 2011 Friday

Public debate on elected mayor ; Pub workers deny robbers ; Stalwart voted in as
First Citizen ; Sex attack terror of girl forced to go into field ; Three
charged after drugs raid

BYLINE: WFnode

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 99 words


SALFORD Residents can quiz the man behind the upcoming mayoral referendum during
a debate next Wednesday.

Campaigner Geoffrey Berg, who collected the 100,000 signatures which triggered
the referendum on an elected mayor, is taking part in a public debate at Salford
civic centre from 7pm.

He will sit on a panel alongside council leader John Merry, Coun Norman Owen,
leader of the Lib Dem group, and Stephen Morris from the English Democrats.

The referendum will be held on January 26.

If the vote is yes, a mayoral election is set to take place next May. The
referendum is expected to cost  £200,000.

LOAD-DATE: December 19, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2011 Manchester Evening News
                              All Rights Reserved

                              269 of 331 DOCUMENTS


                            Manchester Evening News

                            December 9, 2011 Friday

Public debate on elected mayor ; Pub workers deny robbers ; Stalwart voted in as
First Citizen ; Sex attack terror of girl forced to go into field ; Three
charged after drugs raid

BYLINE: WFnode

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 99 words


SALFORD Residents can quiz the man behind the upcoming mayoral referendum during
a debate next Wednesday.

Campaigner Geoffrey Berg, who collected the 100,000 signatures which triggered
the referendum on an elected mayor, is taking part in a public debate at Salford
civic centre from 7pm.

He will sit on a panel alongside council leader John Merry, Coun Norman Owen,
leader of the Lib Dem group, and Stephen Morris from the English Democrats.

The referendum will be held on January 26.

If the vote is yes, a mayoral election is set to take place next May. The
referendum is expected to cost  £200,000.

LOAD-DATE: December 26, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2011 Manchester Evening News
                              All Rights Reserved

                              270 of 331 DOCUMENTS


                            Manchester Evening News

                            December 9, 2011 Friday

Public debate on elected mayor ; Pub workers deny robbers ; Stalwart voted in as
First Citizen ; Sex attack terror of girl forced to go into field ; Three
charged after drugs raid

BYLINE: WFnode

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 99 words


SALFORD Residents can quiz the man behind the upcoming mayoral referendum during
a debate next Wednesday.

Campaigner Geoffrey Berg, who collected the 100,000 signatures which triggered
the referendum on an elected mayor, is taking part in a public debate at Salford
civic centre from 7pm.

He will sit on a panel alongside council leader John Merry, Coun Norman Owen,
leader of the Lib Dem group, and Stephen Morris from the English Democrats.

The referendum will be held on January 26.

If the vote is yes, a mayoral election is set to take place next May. The
referendum is expected to cost  £200,000.

LOAD-DATE: January 6, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2011 Manchester Evening News
                              All Rights Reserved

                              271 of 331 DOCUMENTS


                            Manchester Evening News

                            December 9, 2011 Friday

Public debate on elected mayor ; Pub workers deny robbers ; Stalwart voted in as
First Citizen ; Sex attack terror of girl forced to go into field ; Three
charged after drugs raid

BYLINE: WFnode

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 99 words


SALFORD Residents can quiz the man behind the upcoming mayoral referendum during
a debate next Wednesday.

Campaigner Geoffrey Berg, who collected the 100,000 signatures which triggered
the referendum on an elected mayor, is taking part in a public debate at Salford
civic centre from 7pm.

He will sit on a panel alongside council leader John Merry, Coun Norman Owen,
leader of the Lib Dem group, and Stephen Morris from the English Democrats.

The referendum will be held on January 26.

If the vote is yes, a mayoral election is set to take place next May. The
referendum is expected to cost  £200,000.

LOAD-DATE: January 16, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2011 Manchester Evening News
                              All Rights Reserved

                              272 of 331 DOCUMENTS


                            Manchester Evening News

                            December 9, 2011 Friday

Public debate on elected mayor ; Pub workers deny robbers ; Stalwart voted in as
First Citizen ; Sex attack terror of girl forced to go into field ; Three
charged after drugs raid

BYLINE: WFnode

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 99 words


SALFORD Residents can quiz the man behind the upcoming mayoral referendum during
a debate next Wednesday.

Campaigner Geoffrey Berg, who collected the 100,000 signatures which triggered
the referendum on an elected mayor, is taking part in a public debate at Salford
civic centre from 7pm.

He will sit on a panel alongside council leader John Merry, Coun Norman Owen,
leader of the Lib Dem group, and Stephen Morris from the English Democrats.

The referendum will be held on January 26.

If the vote is yes, a mayoral election is set to take place next May. The
referendum is expected to cost  £200,000.

LOAD-DATE: February 1, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2011 Manchester Evening News
                              All Rights Reserved

                              273 of 331 DOCUMENTS


                            Manchester Evening News

                            December 9, 2011 Friday

Public debate on elected mayor ; Pub workers deny robbers ; Stalwart voted in as
First Citizen ; Sex attack terror of girl forced to go into field ; Three
charged after drugs raid

BYLINE: WFnode

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 99 words


SALFORD Residents can quiz the man behind the upcoming mayoral referendum during
a debate next Wednesday.

Campaigner Geoffrey Berg, who collected the 100,000 signatures which triggered
the referendum on an elected mayor, is taking part in a public debate at Salford
civic centre from 7pm.

He will sit on a panel alongside council leader John Merry, Coun Norman Owen,
leader of the Lib Dem group, and Stephen Morris from the English Democrats.

The referendum will be held on January 26.

If the vote is yes, a mayoral election is set to take place next May. The
referendum is expected to cost  £200,000.

LOAD-DATE: February 13, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2011 Manchester Evening News
                              All Rights Reserved

                              274 of 331 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring South Asia - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                           December 10, 2011 Saturday

Afghan paper strongly condemns Ashura Day terror attacks

LENGTH: 282 words


Text of an editorial entitled: "Cruel Taleban caused bloodshed on Ashura Day",
published by private Arman-e Melli daily on 7 December:

Yesterday, the terrorist Taleban committed horrific crimes in Kabul, Mazar-e
Sharif and Kandahar, which are unprecedented for Afghanistan. Foreign stooges
and cruel terrorists committed the suicide attacks on Ashura Day [a major Shi'i
festival commemorating the martyrdom of Husayn, grandson of the Prophet
Muhammad, at the Battle of Karbala in modern-day Iraq 680 AD] which killed and
injured dozens of innocent children, men and women.

The Taleban are slaves of foreign countries and do not attach importance to
Islamic values. With these horrible attacks on such an important religious day,
the Taleban proved they are not Muslims. The Taleban aimed to show their cruelty
and cause discord with their recent attacks in various Afghan provinces. Our
people are aware of the Taleban's plots and will not allow them to cause
disharmony among the Afghans.

The Taleban and terrorists welcomed the second Bonn Conference with their recent
violent crimes. Moreover, the Taleban aimed to tell the world they have control
over all parts of the country. We believe that the people will not allow the
Taleban's crimes to cause tension and conflict among them.

The worst thing about the recent attacks is that the cruel terrorists committed
the crimes on Ashura Day, which is a religious date for Muslims in Afghanistan
and other countries of the world. The recent attacks and lots of other cruel
attacks by the Taleban exposed their real face and we believe the Taleban will
finally receive punishment for their crimes.

Source: Arman-e Melli, Kabul, in Dari 7 Dec 11, p 1

LOAD-DATE: December 10, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2011 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              275 of 331 DOCUMENTS


                       BBC Monitoring Trans Caucasus Unit
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                           December 10, 2011 Saturday

Russia: Number of terror attacks on transport down in Dagestan

LENGTH: 258 words


The number of terrorist attacks on transport facilities and energy
infrastructure in the Russian North Caucasus republic of Dagestan has halved
compared to the previous years, Regnum news agency has reported.

This was said at a session of the Dagestani anti-terrorist commission chaired by
Dagestani Head Magomedsalam Magomedov on 9 December, the agency said.

"Despite measures taken, the situation remains complicated. There still remains
the threat of subversive attacks," Regnum quoted Magomedov as saying. Among the
priority tasks, the Dagestani head noted the need to upgrade security equipment
and to coordinate the actions of different security agencies and government
entities.

In the meantime, Kavkazskiy Uzel website said on 8 December that 200 g of
explosives, two grenades, a revolver and 96 cartridges had been seized from
three Dagestani residents.

The website also said that unidentified armed men had kidnapped Makhachkala
resident Rashid Shuaybov on 7 December. The armed men also searched Rashid's
house and found explosives. Rashid's sister told Kavkazskiy Uzel that the
explosives had been planted in her brother's house and that Rashid had had no
criminal record.

In a separate development, a resident of Chechnya's Shatoyskiy District has
handed over to police 395 kg of explosives. The 22-year-old resident of Borzoy
village said he had extracted the explosives from three unexploded bombs,
Kavkazskiy Uzel reported.

Sources: Regnum news agency, Moscow, in Russian 1309 gmt 9 Dec 11;
Kavkaz-uzel.ru website, Moscow, in Russian 8 Dec 11

LOAD-DATE: December 10, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2011 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              276 of 331 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring Middle East - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                            December 12, 2011 Monday

''Terrorist confesses'' to attacking Syrian protesters in Homs

LENGTH: 269 words


Text of report in English by state-run Syrian news agency SANA website

["Terrorist Confesses to Kidnapping Citizens, Opening Fire on Protests in Homs"
- SANA Headline]

Homs (SANA) - Terrorist Omran Mohammad Jouma confessed to opening fire on
protests in Homs with the aim of accusing the army of doing so. In confessions
broadcast by the Syrian TV on Saturday [10 December], Jouma admitted to
kidnapping several citizens in Iskenderun Street in Homs.

He said that a group of armed youths started protests in the city, adding that
he asked them about the source of the weapons and they told him that they were
getting the weapons from ''Ahmad al-Muhair'' and his son.

He added that "I joined the group and participated in setting blockades in the
streets. One day, al-Muhair asked Mohammad al-Na'is, Huzayfa al-Ouad, Nasser
al-Ouad and me to kidnap three citizens, he said he will give us 5,000 Syrian
pounds [94 dollars] in return."

He said he kidnapped several citizens from Homs city after al-Muhair promised to
give him money.

"One Wednesday, al-Muhair told us that there will be a protest on Friday, he
ordered us to open fire on the protesters in order to accuse the army of
shooting people. We obeyed al-Muhair and opened fire on the protesters, then we
hid our weapons and ran into the street shouting that the army is firing at the
protest. A citizen named 'Ahmad Othman' was wounded," he confessed.

He concluded saying "After three days, al-Muhair ordered us to open fire again
on the protests on the next Friday, we repeated the same scenario again."

Source: SANA news agency website, Damascus in English 12 Dec 11

LOAD-DATE: December 12, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2011 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              277 of 331 DOCUMENTS


                       BBC Monitoring Europe - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                            December 12, 2011 Monday

German police warn politicians of potential attacks by Italian terror group

LENGTH: 185 words


Text of report by German newspaper Welt am Sonntag website on 11 December

[Unattributed report: "Letter Bombs Also Put Politicians at Risk"]

Following the abortive letter bomb attack on Deutsche Bank head Josef Ackermann,
the Hesse Office of Criminal Investigation (LKA) sees other politicians also at
risk. "Apart from banks and their senior executives, political decision-makers
also need to be considered as potential targets," the LKA writes in a
confidential letter sent to 30 major companies and banks, of which Welt am
Sonntag has a copy. It is "probable" that at least two more explosive devices
are in circulation, since the leftwing-anarchist terror group F.A.I. refers to
"three blasts" in its letter, which is regarded as authentic. The rest of the
text, pronouncing "war on the Europe of bankers, death to the bloodsuckers
governing us", indicates that politicians could also be targeted. "It is not
possible at the moment to further narrow down the potential group of addressees
or potential places of delivery," the LKA letter goes on.

Source: Welt am Sonntag website, Hamburg, in German 11 Dec 11 p 1

LOAD-DATE: December 12, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2011 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              278 of 331 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                     December 13, 2011 Tuesday 8:08 PM GMT

Belgian PM: 'Liege attack not a terrorist act';
Belgian prime minister Elio di Rupo says there are no words to describe the
tragedy as he attends scene of shooting in Liege after gunman injured tens of
people people and killed four, including himself, in gun attack in the city.

LENGTH: 202 words


The gunman, named as Nordine Amrani, 33, began his attack near a bus stop at
Place Saint Lambert, a central shopping area and the site of the city's annual
Christmas market and its main courthouse.

Heo pened fire and threw explosives on a city centre square which was hosting a
Christmas market. He ended by shooting himself in the head with a handgun,
witnesses said.

"The act which happened here in Liege is horrible, there are no words to
describe the tragedy. We think of the innocent victims, innocent victims, of
their families and friends. We also think of all the people who were present at
the scene, and more generally of the people of Liege. All the country is sharing
in the pain of the families affected," The Prime Minister said.

"According to the information we have this is an isolated act, not a terrorist
act, or an attack. The shock that the population feels is understandable and we
share it," he said.

It was not clear what the gunman's motive was, but Liege prosecutor Danielle
Reynders said he had been summoned in the morning to appear before police and
had previous convictions for illegal possession of arms and of drugs.

He was on his way for police questioning when he launched the attack.

LOAD-DATE: January 20, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTNS


                  Copyright 2011 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              279 of 331 DOCUMENTS


                       BBC Monitoring Europe - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                          December 14, 2011 Wednesday

Expert predicts new terrorist attacks in Bosnia

LENGTH: 1515 words


Text of report by Bosnian Croat Mostar-based daily Dnevni list, on 13 December

[Interview with terrorism expert Vlado Azinovic by Antun Mrkonjic, in Sarajevo;
date not given: "Common Sense Tells Us To Expect New Terrorist Attacks in B-H" -
first paragraph is Dnevni List introduction]

Sarajevo - Vlado Azinovic, university professor and expert in terrorism, talked
to Dnevni List about the security situation in Bosnia-Hercegovina, terrorist
threats, the Wahhabis, and the so-called "sleepers." He said that we no longer
had isolated cases of terrorist attacks in Bosnia-Hercegovina - "judging by
global and local trends, common sense tells us to expect new attacks."

[Mrkonjic] A recent RS [Serb Republic] MUP [Interior Ministry] report and RS
Interior Minister Stanislav Cadjo talk about an active presence of numerous
Wahhabi groups in the RS. The report and the minister's statements caused many
reactions and polemics, especially in the case of the Islamic Community [IZ] in
Bosnia-Hercegovina. The RS MUP alleged that they [Wahhabis] were a terrorist
threat, but the IZ's top echelon said that this was a groundless campaign on the
part of the RS, aimed at intimidating the returnees. What is your information?
Is there really reliable information that radical religious groups have
continued with intensive operations against the country's security?

[Azinovic] I have no insight into the findings of security agencies in charge of
antiterrorism. However, judging by publicly available sources and conversations
with those well versed in this matter, it is possible to conclude that there are
groups in Bosnia-Hercegovina, and the region as well, that are inspired by a
combination of uneducated religious interpretations, inspirational lectures, and
video materials - for example, videos of Juba, the Baghdad sniper who killed
dozens of American troops. This is used to radicalize followers and incite
violence against those who do not share their views. What is particularly
dangerous is that these groups frequently include repeat criminal offenders who
are highly mentally unstable. These are socially and economically marginalized
people, often with barely completed primary education and without a full-time
job. Depending on the psychosocial profile of these people, sometimes it is not
even necessary to directly incite them to acts of violence. Once sufficiently
exposed to the said indoctrination, these persons with modest cognitive and
intellectual capabilities can at one point feel that time has come for them to
fulfil their mission in this world by going to the United States Embassy in
Sarajevo and shooting at it with a Kalashnikov in order to "earn" paradise.

[Mrkonjic] Do you see the state taking any concrete preemptive measures
following the brutal terrorist attack in Bugojno and the recent attack on the US
Embassy in Bosnia-Hercegovina? Will the state of Bosnia-Hercegovina once again
be somewhat surprised by, God forbid, a new terrorist attack?

[Azinovic] In order to be effective, the measures that you mentioned do not have
to be visible. It is even better when they are not visible. A disproportionate
reaction by the authorities and increased repression is always an outcome
desired by terrorists, because with it they prove that their actions and motives
were justified. It is important to recall that terrorism is a systematic,
premeditated, and continuous form of violence. In Bosnia-Hercegovina we no
longer have isolated cases of terrorist attacks. Judging by global and local
trends, common sense tells us to expect new attacks. We hope that the
responsible security agencies in Bosnia-Hercegovina are acting with this
knowledge in mind.

[Mrkonjic] Perhaps the RS is overdoing it when it comes to the spreading of fear
of the Wahhabis, but the case of Mevlid Jasarevic [US Embassy attacker] shows
that Bosnia-Hercegovina does have the so-called "sleepers" with long beards,
about whom the police and intelligence for months or years do not know when they
arrived in Bosnia-Hercegovina, where they lived, what they were doing, and who
finances them?

[Azinovic] According to what we know today, Mevlid Jasarevic was not a
traditional "sleeper." He was not someone who had for years led a peaceful and e
xemplary life as a member of the wider community, and then became a terrorist
overnight, incited by someone. Over the past years Jasarevic had been subject to
investigations by security agencies in Serbia and Bosnia-Hercegovina. Austria
convicted him as an accomplice in a bank robbery. This is someone who has a
police record in several countries, and he did not just appear from nowhere. If
someone was sleeping or at least napping in this particular case, then it was
parts of our security system. It is partly passivized by identity imperatives of
our political elites, who, in their vetting of top people in the security
sector, rarely give priority to professionalism. They usually prefer those who
are willing to obey and follow political orders.

[Mrkonjic] Interior Minister Cadjo said that not everyone in Bosnia-Hercegovina
had an identical view of the terrorist threat. He thought that there were
circles in the B-H Federation that wanted to relativize the Wahhabis' threat to
the country's security, and that in fact were not willing to recognize the
threat and fight against it?

[Azinovic] As far as I know, despite the disturbing announcements in the media,
the police and the judiciary in the RS have not as yet processed any terrorism
case. When we compare this knowledge to the claims about the number of
"Wahhabis" and the description of their activities in the RS, something does not
add up. Either the police are not doing their job, or "Wahhabis" are not such a
big security threat as they are often described to be by Banja Luka. There, of
course, is a third option, too. The story about "Wahhabis" and "Islamic
terrorism" is used for daily politics and is based on a simple but unsustainable
logic: terrorists are mainly the Wahhabis and a significant number of the
Wahhabis are Bosniaks, which should suggest that there are many potential
terrorist among the Bosniaks. This distorted logic strengthens the arguments in
favour of the deconstruction of Bosnia, and legitimizes secession of at least
one part of Bosnia. Unfortunately, for years now the smaller entity [RS], with
"unselfish" assistance of self-styled expert teams and "specialists," has been
treating the problem of terrorism in a way that strengthens this thesis, but
does not help us tackle this security challenge.

[Mrkonjic] Recently media reported that the Wahhabis had been trying to take
"dzemats" [lowest administrative units of IZ] by force in some areas. What, in
your opinion, are the preemptive measures that should be taken by the IZ, and
what should be done by the state? One gets the impression that both of them are
trying to shift the responsibility for these measures to someone else?

[Azinovic] The IZ in Bosnia-Hercegovina very harshly and unambiguously condemned
the 28 October attack [on US Embassy] in Sarajevo. In addition to this, Reis ul
Ulema [reis, grand mufti of B-H IZ] Mustafa Ceric, in his Bairam khutbah, sent a
theological challenge to the groups that we commonly refer to as Wahhabis or
Salafis. According to their ideological pattern and worldviews, they in fact
mostly resemble the harijis (rebels), one of the first sects in early Islam.

They were characterized by exclusivity, intolerance, and even violence towards
those who did not accept their understanding of original Islam. Ever since this
type of Islamic practice started spreading in Bosnia-Hercegovina in the early
1990s, the crucial thesis of its advocates has been that Bosnian Muslims have
deviated from original Islam and embraced "novelties," and this is the main
cause of their pain and suffering. Reis Ceric now sent a message to these groups
that they themselves "are introducing novelties and misconceptions, which will
certainly take them to hell."

This is a strong message; it almost is anathema. We, of course, could speculate
if it would have been better if this condemnation and challenge were made much
sooner. The IZ has its internal o rganization and mechanisms that it can use for
preemptive action. It, however, cannot and should not be a substitute for a
dysfunctional state and its security apparatus. We are faced with an absurd
situation. The political elites, which have for a long time persisted in the
efforts to obstruct the creation of a functional state in Bosnia-Hercegovina,
now gloatingly point their finger at the consequence of their own obstruction -
the emergence of Mevlid Jasarevic and "the Wahhabis." It would be the same if a
soccer player were to celebrate scoring own goal. This is what our political
"players" are like. This is how they treat the state and how they treat us, the
citizens who pay them.

This is one of the reasons why our general security rests more on sheer luck and
coincidence, rather than on functional mechanisms of prevention and repression.

Source: Dnevni list, Mostar, in Bosnian/Croatian/Serbian 13 Dec 11; p 9

LOAD-DATE: December 15, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2011 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              280 of 331 DOCUMENTS



                                   The Mirror

                          December 14, 2011 Wednesday
                                 Ulster Edition

MEN WOUNDED IN GUN ATTACK;
TERROR

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 153 words


TWO men were wounded last night in what appears to be a punishment-type
shooting.

It happened shortly after 7pm in the High Park area in Creggan in Derry. It is
thought the victims were each shot in one leg.

One man who lives near the scene said: "The first I knew was when the ambulances
appeared and then the police jeeps. People round here are very shocked that this
could happen. We all thought those days were over."

The shooting bears all the hallmarks of being carried out by Republican Action
Against Drugs, a vigilante group that has been active in the Creggan.

Local Sinn Fein councillor Colin Kelly said: "This is yet another shooting in
our community and once again the people behind it have shown their total
disregard for the people who live here.

"Here we are just a matter of weeks before Christmas and this sort of thing
happens. Not only do the victims suffer but children and families in the area
suffer."

LOAD-DATE: December 14, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                            Copyright 2011 MGN Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              281 of 331 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                    December 14, 2011 Wednesday 9:52 AM GMT

Liege attacks: Lone gunman brings terror to streets of Belgian city with hand
grenade attack;
A lone gunman spread terror in the Belgian city of Liege, opening fire and
throwing hand grenades onto a square packed Christmas shoppers, killing five
people and himself, and injuring scores.

BYLINE: By Bruno Waterfield Liege and Alex Spillius

LENGTH: 784 words


Belgium grenade attack: latest

The killer was named as Nordine Amrani, 33, a known criminal and gun-lover who
launched his rampage for reasons that police were still trying to fathom.

They stressed that Amrani had no known links to terrorism or any history of
mental illness or violent crime, but it did emerge that he was released on
parole last year from a 58-month sentence for possessing a cache of weapons and
2,800 cannabis plants.

His victims were two teenage boys aged 15 and 17, a man aged 20 and a
75-year-old woman. A 17-month-old girl later died of her wounds in hospital. The
city's mayor said the teenagers were celebrating finishing their exams and were
heading to the Christmas market when they were killed. Around 120 were injured.

Amrani was due to attend a police interview in the late morning but never showed
up. Instead he left his apartment armed with a Belgian -made FAL automatic
rifle, a handgun and up to a dozen grenades carried in a backpack.

He drove the five-minute journey from his 1930s apartment building Residence
Belvedere and parked his white van in Place St Lambert near the popular Le Point
Chaud bakery.

He walked steadily onto the bakery's flat roof and from his 15ft high vantage
point lobbed three hand grenades towards a busy bus shelter before opening fire
on the crowd.

The attack sent terrified people running for their lives, and several hours
later many still sat weeping on pavements amid the screech of ambulance sirens
and the din of helicopters overhead. More than 50 people were treated on the
scene by dozens of paramedics that raced to the scene.

A magistrate at the courthouse that faces the square, who asked not to be named,
described how he came face to face with the killer.

"I saw him standing 20 metres away. He looked at me, I looked at him.

I pulled a few steps back, to get out of his sight and to get my phone out. But
then there was an explosion. I took cover and I saw him throwing grenades. Then
he fired an automatic weapon." Nicolas Gilenne, a journalist who had just left
the courthouse when the attack started, said: "I saw a man wave his arm and
throw something at the bus shelter. I heard an explosion. He turned around,
picked something else up, pulled the pin. I started to run. He was alone and
seemed very much in control.

"He wanted to hurt as many people as possible. I heard four explosions and shots
during about 10 seconds." A police officer said: "When I arrived the scene was
horrible dozens of wounded, their bodies smashed. I have never seen anything
like it." Samuel, 24, who did not want to be give his surname because he was
working illegally as causal worker at the Christmas fair, said the attacker was
wearing a long raincoat.

"After the first explosion I was swept away in a wave of people running from the
Christmas village. They were screaming, it was horrible," he recalled.

Other witnesses said Amrani shot himself in the head with a handgun, but
Danielle Reynders, public prosecutor in the city of 196,000, said it was not
clear if he had killed himself or died from shrapnel wounds caused by one his
grenades. She said he still had a number of grenades in his backpack when he
died.

In 2008 Amrani was sentenced to 58 months in prison for illegal possession of
ten firearms, 9,500 "gun parts" and 2,800 cannabis plants but was granted parole
last year. He also had convictions for pimping and trafficking stolen goods.

A weapons aficionado, he was said to be able to dismantle, repair and put
together all sorts of weapons but was never linked to any terrorist act or
network. "It was a lone gunman," said Benoit Ramacker, centre for the Federal
Crisis Centre, referring to reports in the initial confusion that there had been
three or four assailants.

"It's very difficult to determine the reasons for the attack, but we're
investigating all avenues." Official sources said police had recently raided
Amrani's home in Liege seeking cannabis plants but had found firearms instead.

Speaking from her apartment door, Madame Luyx an elderly neighbour, who lived
opposite his apartment, said: "We knew he had been to prison. I was worried so I
always kept my door locked."

Natasha Kos-Princen, another neighbour, on the floor below, was in a Quick
hamburger cafe near the square where attacks took place. "I got home and then
the police turned up and said 'you that guy who killed all the people? Well he
lives here'. I was really shocked I didn't know him personally."

As darkness fell, King Albert II and Queen Paola arrived to console the city.
The prime minister and home affairs minister also visited.

LOAD-DATE: January 20, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTNS


                  Copyright 2011 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              282 of 331 DOCUMENTS


                      Western Morning News (Plymouth, UK)

                          December 14, 2011 Wednesday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

Protesters burn effigy of man accused of terror attack

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 84 words


Supporters of the Hindu right wing party Shiv Sena burn an effigy of Mohammad
Afzal Guru, the prime accused in an attack on India's Parliament in 2001 when
five terrorists entered the building and began indiscriminate firing.
Demonstrators yesterday marked the tenth anniversary by burning the effigy of
Guru, from Kashmir, who confessed in TV interviews that he helped plot the
attack that killed 14, including all five attackers. He has since denied any
involvement and said he was tortured into confessing

LOAD-DATE: December 14, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: WMN


                 Copyright 2011 Western Morning News (Plymouth)
                              All Rights Reserved

                              283 of 331 DOCUMENTS



                                BreakingNews.ie

                    December 15, 2011 Thursday 11:19 PM GMT

Carlos jailed over terror attacks

SECTION: WORLD NEWS

LENGTH: 116 words


A French court has convicted terror leader Carlos the Jackal of organising four
deadly attacks in France in the 1980s and sentenced him to life in prison.

The Venezuelan-born terrorist, whose real name is Ilich Ramirez Sanchez, is
already serving a life sentence in a Paris prison for a triple murder in 1975.
France does not have the death penalty.

The court found Ramirez guilty of instigating four attacks in France in 1982 and
1983 that killed 11 people and injured more than 140.

Ramirez denied any role in the attacks.

He sowed fear across western European and Middle Eastern capitals during the
Cold War, with believed links to hijackings and bombings for far-left and
Palestinian terror groups.

LOAD-DATE: December 15, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication


                    Copyright 2011 Thomas Crosbie Media Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              284 of 331 DOCUMENTS


                               Leicester Mercury

                           December 15, 2011 Thursday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

Robbery victims relive ordeal for a TV appeal;
TERRORISED: FARM COUPLE TELL OF ATTACK BY ARMED GANG

BYLINE: CIARAN FAGAN CRIME

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 458 words


A couple will appear on BBC One's Crimewatch tonight to appeal for help tracing
the armed gang who terrorised them in their farmhouse.

David and Sandra Clarke's hands were bound with plastic cuffs when three
burglars burst into their home, Soars Lodge Farm, off Foston Lane, near
Countesthorpe, three months ago.

During the attack one of the masked intruders hit 70-year-old Mr Clarke across
the face with a crowbar. Another held a machete across 68-year-old Mrs Clarke's
throat and put a screwdriver in her mouth.

The couple's ordeal, during which the men threatened to kill Mrs Clarke, lasted
up to 45 minutes.

The intruders took the family's legally registered firearms - five shotguns and
10 rifles - as well as ammunition.

The couple's appeal will be made on the programme which airs at 9pm.

Mr Clarke, whose family have owned the farm for three generations, told
Crimewatch: "It horrifies me to think that some of those guns they have taken
could be used to threaten some poor shopkeeper."

His wife said that the men repeatedly asked the couple 'where's the money?'.

She said: "They just said 'You're lying to us, where is the money?' They just
would not believe there wasn't any."

Mrs Clarke has previously said: "They were so violent. I don't understand why
they had to be so violent.

"They hit my husband across the mouth with a crowbar and they also had a cricket
bat, a machete and a long screwdriver.

"This was planned. We both feel they must have been watching us, possibly for
some time.

"We're farming people and we're tough, so we will get over this."

Police immediately contacted firearms dealers in an attempt to trace the
weapons.

The rifles were missing their firing mechanisms, which means they cannot be
easily restored to full working order. However, the shotguns were working.

The men loaded the firearms into the family's cars, a silver Range Rover Vogue
and a grey Land Rover Defender, and escaped.

Detective Constable Tim Smith said: "We are hoping that the Crimewatch appeal
will jog people's memories and bring forward new information. "A £5,000 reward
has been offered for any information that leads to the arrest and conviction of
those responsible and the return of the stolen property.

"From inquiries we've conducted we are also linking this incident with two
burglaries which occurred in Leicester, in which a BMW and an Audi car were
stolen from separate addresses after the keys were taken from the properties.
"Both cars have subsequently been recovered in Braunstone.

"One of the vehicles contained some of the property stolen during the burglary
in Countesthorpe."

Contact Crimestoppers, which is anonymous, on 0800 555111.

Footage from tonight's programme can be seen on the Mercury website.

Go to: www.thisisleicestershire.co.uk

LOAD-DATE: December 15, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: ATTACK: The robbery recreated for an appeal on Crimewatch

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: LEM


                        Copyright 2011 Leicester Mercury
                              All Rights Reserved

                              285 of 331 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                     December 15, 2011 Thursday 5:33 PM GMT

Barack Obama's favourite TV shows: Boardwalk Empire, Modern Family and Homeland;

Barack Obama's favourite television programmes are Boardwalk Empire, Modern
Family and Homeland - a show about a suspected terrorist attack on Washington.

BYLINE: By Paul Thompson in Miami

LENGTH: 258 words


Mr Obama                      admitted his taste in TV is a "little darker" than
his family.

He said when the family do sit down together in the White House they like to
watch the comedy "Modern Family."

"For the girls and me, Modern Family, that's our favourite show," he said.

The President is known to prefer sports, particularly basketball, but said the
Showtime series "Homeland" was his current favourite.

The series stars Claire Danes as a CIA agent on the trail of a suspected
terrorist who could be a former Marine tortured by al Qaeda and played by
British star Damien Lewis.

Much of the action takes places around Washington DC as Danes tries to locate
Lewis's character before he can launch a terror attack.

Boardwalk Empire is the hit HBO series set in Atlantic City at the time of
prohibition and stars Steve Buscemi.

Michelle Obama, the First Lady, told People magazine that the family rarely sit
down together for an evening in from of the TV.

"We don't watch TV with him," she said. The First couple said that they are
finally able to record shows after having a DVR installed in their private
quarters.

"We're a little behind," Mr Obama said.

Mr Obama also said that they do not allow daughters Malia, 13, and Sasha, 13, to
have Facebook accounts.

"Why would we want to have a whole bunch of people who we don't know knowing our
business? That doesn't make much sense," he said.

But he admitted he might change his mind when the girls are older.

"We'll see how they feel in four years," he said.

LOAD-DATE: December 21, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTNS


                  Copyright 2011 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              286 of 331 DOCUMENTS



                         The Evening Standard (London)

                            December 16, 2011 Friday

SNIPERS, FIGHTER JETS AND WARSHIPS TO GUARD AGAINST TERROR ATTACKS AT GAMES

BYLINE: IAN DRURY DEFENCE CORRESPONDENT

LENGTH: 566 words


UP to 13,500 British troops will be deployed to protect the London Olympics
against a terrorist atrocity, it was revealed yesterday.

Bomb-disposal experts, specialist sniffer dog handlers, building search teams
and regular soldiers will support the police to keep the 2012 Games safe, said
the Ministry of Defence.

Snipers in Lynx and Puma helicopters will patrol the skies of London, while
Typhoon jets will be stationed nearby so they can be scrambled to the Olympic
site within minutes.

Royal Navy warships and RAF fighter jets bristling with fearsome weaponry will
also be on standby. Crack special forces units are understood to have been
practising to deal with any attack by fanatics during the sporting showcase.
Security chiefs are acutely aware that the Olympic and Paralympic Games are a
prized target for terrorists. Defence Secretary Philip Hammond said security
would remain police-led but the Armed Forces would make a 'significant
contribution' towards 'ensuring a safe, secure and enjoyable Olympics'. He said
the Games, which will be attended by 10,500 athletes from 105 countries, as well
as an estimated 10.8million spectators, were 'the biggest security challenge
this country has faced for decades'. But he stressed that the Olympic duties
would have no impact on the UK's military commitments around the globe,
including the 9,500 troops in Afghanistan.

MoD sources said the figure of 13,500 was not dependent on troops being brought
home but it is much higher than the 7,000 troops that had been expected to be
utilised for the Games. Last week ministers revealed that the security budget
for next summer's Olympics had soared from £282million to £553million.

In a written ministerial statement, Mr Hammond said some 5,000 of the troops
would support the police by providing specialist capabilities including
bomb-disposal and dog teams. Another 1,000 will provide logistics support
including transport and engineering. And about 3,500 will provide venue
security, rising to 7,500 on peak days during the Olympics. They will count
towards the 23,700 security staff the Government announced would be needed at
venues next summer - more than double the original 10,000 estimate.

Royal Navy flagship HMS Bulwark, a 21,500-ton floating fortress with
state-of-the-art weapons, will be based off the coast of Weymouth to protect the
sailing events.

HMS Ocean, the largest ship in the Royal Navy, will be berthed in the Thames at
Greenwich to provide an operating site for Lynx and Puma helicopters. And
sophisticated Typhoon fast jets armed with deadly air-to-air and air-to-ground
missiles, recently used to pound Colonel Gaddafi's troops, will be moved from
bases in Scotland and Lincolnshire to RAF Northolt in West London so they can be
deployed speedily.

Surface-to-air missiles with a range of more than seven miles will be used to
protect the skies above Olympic venues. Tobias Feakin, director of national
security and resilience at the Royal United Services Institute, said: 'We do not
know exactly yet but it could be some of the personnel who could be returning
from Afghanistan and before going on leave could go on to the Olympics. There is
a lot of strain on military capacity already and, in that regard, having to
supply additional forces for the Games is another strain but it is one the
military will take on board. If they are given a task, they will do it.'

© Daily Mail

LOAD-DATE: December 16, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright  2011   Evening Standard Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              287 of 331 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                      December 16, 2011 Friday 6:00 AM GMT

Carlos the Jackal convicted for 1980s French terrorist attacks;
A French court has convicted the Venezuelan-born terrorist known as Carlos the
Jackal of organising four deadly attacks in France in the 1980s and sentenced
him to life in prison.

LENGTH: 631 words


He was handed the maximum sentence that had been requested by French prosecutors
who had urged the court to find Carlos Ilich Ramirez Sanchez, 62, guilty of the
bombings that killed 11 people and left nearly 150 injured.

His lawyer, Isabelle Coutant-Peyre, described the verdict as a "scandal" and
said he would appeal.

Carlos first rose to prominence in 1975 when his commando group burst into the
conference room where ministers from the powerful OPEC oil cartel were meeting
in Vienna, taking 11 hostage.

His Paris trial dealt with four attacks that were seen as part of a private war
Carlos waged against France to free two comrades, including his future wife, who
were arrested in Paris while planning to attack the Kuwaiti embassy.

French authorities received a letter, allegedly marked with Carlos's
fingerprints, threatening "war" if the pair were not released within 30 days.

French prosecutor Olivier Bray had argued that the bombings in France in 1982
and 1983 were not "targeted" political actions, but "blind" attacks aimed to
"kill the maximum number of people with the minimum of risk."

He said 30 years was "too long" for Carlos's victims to have waited for his
conviction, but that "the duty of democracies is to never give up ... arresting
those behind attacks and bringing them to justice."

Alain Poupaux, who was injured in one of the attacks, said he was "relieved" by
the minimum term "which will make sure he stays in prison."

German national Christa Froehlich, tried in absentia for one of the attacks, was
found not guilty. The prosecution had asked for a 15-year sentence on the
69-year-old woman who lives in Hanover.

Two other life sentences were handed down on co-accused who were also tried in
absentia. German national Johannes Weinrich, Carlos's former right-hand man, is
being held in Germany for other crimes while Palestinian Ali Kamal al-Issawi is
at large.

The trial of Carlos lasted six weeks. He spoke for five hours before the verdict
was announced and the deliberations of the court lasted for four hours.

Carlos sobbed as he wound up his speech by reading a document he said was "the
testament of (former Libyan leader) Muammar Gaddafi, a "man who did more than
all the revolutionaries like us in the world."

With clenched fist he shouted "Long live the revolution," "Allah Akhbar" (God is
greatest), echoed by some 15 supporters in the public gallery.

Carlos was arrested in Sudan in 1994 and transferred to France, where he has
since been held in various jails. In 1997 he was convicted of the 1975 murder of
a civilian and two policemen, and jailed for life.

Carlos has boasted in newspaper interviews of carrying out more than 100 attacks
as the leader of a militant gang that operated in Europe on behalf of Warsaw
Pact intelligence agencies and militant Palestinian groups.

The series of attacks began with the bombing of the express train "Le Capitole"
on March 29, 1982, which was running from Paris to the southern city of
Toulouse.

Five died in the attack and 28 were wounded.

The attack on Le Capitole was claimed by the "International Terrorist Friends of
Carlos" and was followed on April 22, 1982, by the Paris car bombing of
anti-Syrian newspaper Al-Watan Al-Arabi, which killed a passer-by and wounded
60.

On the same day, Carlos's comrade Bruno Breguet and future wife Magdalena Kopp
were convicted of the foiled embassy attack.

Two more bombings took place on New Year's Eve 1983. One hit a high-speed TGV
train between Marseille and Paris, killing three people and wounding 13. Moments
later, a bomb in a Marseille train station killed two.

Despite his notoriety, he has drawn the support of Venezuela's President Hugo
Chavez, who praised him last month as a "worthy heir of the greatest struggles
... on behalf of the people and social justice."

LOAD-DATE: December 21, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTNS


                  Copyright 2011 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              288 of 331 DOCUMENTS


                                Evening Gazette

                            December 19, 2011 Monday
                                  1st Edition

SEX ATTACK TERROR;
Woman, 20, targeted on village footpath  WOMAN, 20, ASSAULTED

BYLINE: EMMA GREENHALGH

SECTION: NEWS; FRONT PAGE; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 292 words


A SEX attacker was being hunted today after a woman was assaulted on an isolated
footpath.

Cleveland Police say the woman was the victim of a "serious sexual assault" in
Liverton Mines.

The 20-year-old victim was walking on a footpath in the early hours of yesterday
when the shocking incident happened.

The track, which has rubbish strewn around it, runs alongside a field between
Liverton Road and St Cuthbert's Walk in the village.

The woman was attacked by a man on the overgrown pathway, which backs on to
houses, at about 1am yesterday.

Cleveland Police have called it a "serious sexual assault" and are appealing for
witnesses to the incident to come forward. From Page One Police tape remained at
the scene earlier today and investigations were said to have been carried out
throughout Sunday, with officers making door-to-door inquiries.

Villagers were "surprised" to hear of the incident today, calling their area
"quite quiet". One man walking near the scene today said: "The police were here
until dark yesterday. "The path is used quite a lot by people cutting through
and walking their dogs." Another passerby, who also did not wish to be named,
said: "I know CID were going around last night, asking people if they had seen
anything.

"They did not give any details, they just wanted information. I only know as
much as everybody else, which is village gossip." A Cleveland Police spokeswoman
said there had been no arrests overnight. She said: "The description of the
attacker is a white male, around 5ft 8ins tall and of average build. "He was
wearing a black jacket with the hood up." Anyone with information on the attack
is asked to contact Redcar CID on 06142 30262 or the charity Crimestoppers,
anonymously, on 0800 555 111.

LOAD-DATE: December 19, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:  ASSAULT: The scene in Liverton Mines, above, where a 20-year-old woman
was the victim of a serious sex attack Pictures by PETER REIMANN SCENE: St
Cuthbert's Walk in Liverton Mines, above, close to where a young woman was
sexually assaulted Picture by PETER REIMANN

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: gz


                    Copyright 2011 Gazette Media Company Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                              289 of 331 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                     December 20, 2011 Tuesday 8:11 AM GMT

Dutch laboratory creates 'mutant bird flu' sparking terrorism fears;
A Dutch laboratory claims to have developed a mutant version of the deadly bird
flu virus that is for the first time contagious among humans, sparking fears it
could be used for terrorist attacks.

LENGTH: 248 words


A research team led by Ron Fouchier at Rotterdam's Erasmus Medical Centre said
in September it had created a mutant version of the H5N1 bird flu virus that
could for the first time be spread among mammals.

"We need to be very vigilant," said French Health Minister Xavier Bertrand.

The H5N1 strain of bird flu is fatal in 60 per cent of human cases but only 350
people have so far died from the disease largely because it cannot, yet, be
transmitted between humans.

The announcement led to fears the mutant virus could find its way into nature or
that the publication of the research on how the virus was mutated could be used
by terrorists.

EU Health Commissioner John Dalli told journalists he had received assurances
from Dutch authorities that the virus was secure.

"The Dutch authorities confirmed that the virus itself is stored in a very
secured way and that the necessary permits were given and that the researchers
are bound by a code of conduct," Mr Dalli said.

"One of the issues ... is to ensure that any information coming from this
research is well controlled and without sensitive details about mutation being
given," he said.

Mr Fouchier said in a statement his team had discovered that transmission of the
virus was possible between humans "and can be carried out more easily than we
thought."

"In a laboratory, it was possible to change the H5N1 into a virus ... that can
easily be spread through the air. This process (mutation) could also happen
naturally," Mr Fouchier said.

LOAD-DATE: December 21, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTNS


                  Copyright 2011 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              290 of 331 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring Middle East - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                          December 21, 2011 Wednesday

"Armed terrorist groups" attack public properties in Syria's Homs region

LENGTH: 193 words


Text of report in English by state-run Syrian news agency SANA website;
subheading as published

["Armed Terrorist Groups Attack Public, Private Properties in Homs, Authorities
Clash, Apprehend Terro..." - SANA Headline]

(SANA) - Homs, (SANA) -Armed terrorist groups on Sunday [18 December] attacked a
number of public and private properties in Al-Qsair area in Homs Countryside.

SANA reporter said that the terrorists opened fire at citizens, adding that the
authorities clashed with the groups and injured a number of them.

Authorities Clash with Armed Terrorist Group in Homs

The authorities clashed with an armed terrorist group in Al-Naziheen area in
Homs city.

The authorities managed to kill two terrorists and injure four others without
suffering any casualties.

SANA's correspondent added that the authorities apprehended another six
terrorists in Homs countryside.

A roadside explosive planted under a railway line was detonated west of Tal
Kalakh, causing material damages only.

The line was offline, and repairs and maintenance teams are currently working on
fixing the line as soon as possible.

Source: SANA news agency website, Damascus in English 19 Dec 11

LOAD-DATE: December 21, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2011 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              291 of 331 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                    December 21, 2011 Wednesday 1:54 PM GMT

Tory MP rebuked over 'morbid fascination' with death of David Cameron;
The Conservative backbencher Peter Bone has been rebuked for his "morbid
fascination" over who would lead the country in the wake of an assassination
attempt on the Prime Minister in a terrorist attack.

BYLINE: By Andrew Hough

LENGTH: 659 words


The MP for Wellingborough, has asked repeated questions of the government on who
would take over at Number 10 in the catastrophic event David Cameron is killed
in a terrorist attack.

He said current rules did not make this clear and he said the public and the
military needed to know who would be in charge in an emergency.

He called for a "line of succession" similar to that introduced in America, in
which the Vice President is second in line in the event the President is hurt or
killed.

But after his latest question in Parliament this week, he was told by Nick Clegg
to drop his "morbid fascination" with Mr Cameron's death. A prime minister has
not died in office for nearly 150 years

It came after Mr Bone tried to undermine the Deputy Prime Minister by claiming
he should not take over from Mr Cameron if he was either killed or deemed unable
to do the top job.

The Cabinet Office said "appropriate arrangements would be in place to ensure
smooth running of government".

At present Mr Clegg deputises for Mr Cameron at Prime Minister's Questions and
on overseas trips while William Hague, the Foreign Secretary, has the additional
title of First Secretary of State, denoting seniority within government.

During heated debate, Mr Clegg said that the Tory chief whip Patrick McLoughlin
might want to investigate why Mr Bone is so obsessed with the Prime Minister's
death.

Mr Bone has repeatedly used Commons questions to ask who would take over from Mr
Cameron in the event he was killed or deemed unable to do the job.

Speaking in the Commons this week, Mr Bone said: "In wishing you a merry
Christmas, if the Prime Minister was killed in a terrorist attack, who would
take charge of the Government?

"Would you confirm that it wouldn't be you as you lead a party which has less
support than Ukip?"

Mr Clegg hit back: "I receive your season's greetings in the spirit in which
they were intended and as you know appropriate arrangements would be made in
that very unfortunate event.

I have to to say that your morbid fascination with the premature death of your
own party leader is not really a subject for me, it is a subject for the chief
whip."

Mr Bone has asked Philip Hammond, the Defence Secretary, in the Commons about
whether he might take over. Mr Hammond said arrangements were in place but he
would not make them public.

On Wednesday he defended his questioning  on the issue during an interview with
BBC Radio 4's today programme.

"The important thing is if there is a terrorist attack the military must know
immediately who is in charge, the country must know immediately who is in
charge," he said.

"If the Prime Minister has been killed in that attack and there is a requirement
to take an instant decision, someone needs to be in charge.

"To say we can wait and get the cabinet together and sit down to decide who is
in charge, in this day and age, is patently absurd.

"It does need to be clear. At the moment, what would happen?"

He added: "Would the defence secretary be in charge, would it be the Cabinet
Office, would it be William Hague or Nick Clegg. Who knows?"

Mr Bone said he was "absolutely certain" that it should not be Mr Clegg.

He said of Mr Clegg: "It was an absurd response from the Deputy Prime Minister
to deflect answering the question which he refused to point blank do."

A document published earlier this year set out the role and powers of the
sovereign, the executive, ministers and Parliament.

It stressed that even if there is a deputy prime minister this "does not
constrain the sovereign's power to appoint a successor to a prime minister".

A Government spokesman said they were not prepared to speculate about who would
take over from the Prime Minister in the event he could no longer do the job.

He added: "The Prime Minister remains Prime Minister at all times but
arrangements, appropriate at the time, would be put in place as necessary, as
has been the practice under successive administrations."

LOAD-DATE: December 21, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTNS


                  Copyright 2011 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              292 of 331 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring South Asia - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                           December 22, 2011 Thursday

Indian government clears naming US terror suspect in Mumbai attacks chargesheet

LENGTH: 446 words


Text of report by Indian news agency PTI

New Delhi, 21 December: The government has given its sanction to charge sheet
nine people including Pakistani-American terrorist David Headley, LeT founder
Hafiz Saeed and two ISI officers for plotting terror attacks in India including
the 26/11 strikes.

Besides Headley and Saeed, the Home Ministry gave sanction to National
Investigation Agency to prosecute 26/11 attacks mastermind Zaki-ur-Rehman
Lakhvi, Headley's accomplice and Pakistani-Canadian Tahawwur Rana and al-Qaeda
operative Illyas Kashmiri, official sources said here.

Sajid Malik, handler of Headley, and Abdul Rehman Hashmi will also be named in
the charge sheet besides two officers Major Iqbal and Major Samir Ali, believed
to be working for Pakistan's snooping agency, the sources said.

The sanction of prosecution against the nine was accorded after a legal opinion
of the Law Ministry was obtained.

They will be named in the charge sheet for waging war against the country under
the Indian Penal Code and relevant sections of Unlawful Activities (Prevention)
Act.

The NIA had registered a case against 50-year-old Headley and Rana on November
12, 2009 and later on added other names after investigation by central security
agencies showed a large set of people involved in terror activities against the
country.

Both Headley and Rana are at present in custody of US authorities and NIA has
only got a limited access to Headley, who had entered into plea bargain with US
authorities to escape harsh sentence.

50-year-old Rana was found guilty by the US court of terror activities in
Denmark but absolved of his role in the 26/11 strikes in Mumbai.

The NIA, while registering a case against Rana and Headley under Unlawful
Activities (Prevention) Act and for conspiring to wage war against the country,
had alleged that Headley had visited India "several times before 26/11 and once
after" the Mumbai terror strikes, which left 166 people dead.

Barring Headley and Rana, NIA has secured an Interpol Red Corner Notice against
all the seven accused including Saeed and Lakhvi, who is said to be in a
Pakistani jail facing trial for conspiring the 26/11 attack.

Headley helped NIA identify voices of handlers giving instructions to the
holed-up terrorists during the 60-hour carnage in Mumbai in November 2008. The
handlers included Abu Hamza, the man who carried out the attack on the Indian
Institute of Science in Bangalore, and a key planner, instructor and handler.

He also identified Sajid Majid, a top LeT terrorist, who asked the terrorists in
Chabad House to ensure that none of the Israelis were left alive.

Source: PTI news agency, New Delhi, in English 1517gmt 21 Dec 11

LOAD-DATE: December 22, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2011 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              293 of 331 DOCUMENTS


                       BBC Monitoring Africa - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                           December 22, 2011 Thursday

(Corr) Kenya "on high alert over possibility of bio-terrorism attack"

LENGTH: 396 words


(Correcting headline for clarity.)Text of report by Claire Wanja entitled "Kenya
put on high alert over bio-terrorism attack" published by state-owned Kenya
Broadcasting Corporation (KBC) website on 22 December

The [state] Kenya Medical Research Institute (Kemri) has put the country on high
alert over the possibility of a bio-terrorism attack.

With the ongoing fight against [Somali Islamist] Al-Shabab, the research
institute admitted that bio-terrorism posed the biggest threat to the country.

According to Kemri Director Dr Solomon Mpoke, if not well handled the attack
could be used as a weapon of mass destruction.

To this effect, Mpoke said that they had heightened security to make sure that
the deadly pathogens in their facility did not land in the wrong hands.

"We have secured our fence and heightened security and in conjunction with our
collaborators designed alert systems in case of a mysterious disease outbreak,"
said Mpoke.

The director at the same time said that they were working on the reduction of TB
treatment period from the current six to four months.

Despite facing various challenges the institute according to the director had
managed to protect 55 per cent of the minors from contracting malaria.

On his part, Kemri Chairman Dr Edwin Muingia expressed his concern that the body
was losing its best scientists to other countries due to low wages.

This, he attributed to the funding as out of the 9bn shillings [109m dollars]
annual budget, the government contributed a partial 1bn shillings with donors
chipping in.

"The government is supposed to allocate two per cent of its budget to research
but that is not the case and this is costing the country dearly,"

And with the coming in of the devolved government, Muingia said that plans were
under way to make sure the institute was represented in every county.

Dr Elizabeth Bukusi, the deputy director in charge of research and training,
said that they had made significant strides in the fight against HIV/AIDS.

Bukusi said that a study conducted on discordant couples indicated that early
treatment for HIV/AIDS reduced chances of spreading the disease to partners by
96 per cent.

"We are currently working on the male to male transmission of HIV/AIDS mainly in
the coast and it's a serious problem due to phobia and stigma attached to the
issue".

Source: KBC Online text website, Nairobi, in English 22 Dec 11

LOAD-DATE: December 22, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2011 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              294 of 331 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring Middle East - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                           December 22, 2011 Thursday

Syrian "terrorist" confesses to attacking citizens, kidnapping

LENGTH: 215 words


Text of report by R. Raslan/Al-Ibrahim published in English by state-run Syrian
news agency SANA website

["Terrorist al-Sayes confesses attacking citizens, kidnapping, stealing cars and
possessing arms"]

Damascus - Terrorist Khalid al-Sayes on Wednesday [21 December] confessed
participating with several armed terrorist groups in attacking citizens,
stealing cars, kidnapping two girls and committing murder looting and possessing
arms and grenades as to terrify safe people.

In his confessions broadcast by the Syrian TV, al-Sayes said that he works as a
house painter and he was arrested for killing citizen Alaa al-Harastani and
sentenced in absentia to four years in prison for attempted murder.

Al-Sayes said that he killed al-Harastani with 8 gunshots to the head and chest
as the latter refused to give up his gun and denied that he had one.

The terrorist added that he participated in protests, opened fire on the
passers-by and forced shop owners to close their businesses.

He said that his two friends Ayham Zidan and Abd-al Wahhab al-Qadamani stole
taxis, in addition to that they, the three men, threatened citizens if they
voiced support to the government.

Al-Sayes confessed to kidnapping two Iraqi girls in Qudssaya area.

Source: SANA news agency website, Damascus in English 22 Dec 11

LOAD-DATE: December 22, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2011 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              295 of 331 DOCUMENTS


                            Birmingham Evening Mail

                           December 22, 2011 Thursday
                                 First Edition

MURDER ACCUSED 'MAKES UNLIKELY TERROR ATTACKER'

BYLINE: Michael McHugh

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 378 words


A MAN accused of murdering a Birmingham soldier and his comrade in Northern
Ireland is a highly unlikely terrorist, a court heard.

Brian Shivers has never committed any criminal offences and has a limited
lifespan because he is suffering from cystic fibrosis, his barrister told the
court.

Shivers and Colin Duffy deny the murder of Sappers Mark Quinsey, of Highters
Heath, and Patrick Azimkar, of London.

Patrick O'Connor QC told Belfast Crown Court sitting in Antrim: "Brian Shivers
is a highly unlikely terrorist.

"He is 46 years old and has never committed a criminal offence in his life. He
has a lack of propensity to offend and is credible as a witness in his own
defence."

Sappers Quinsey, 23, and Azimkar, 21, were shot dead by the Real IRA as they
collected pizzas with comrades outside Massereene Army base in Antrim town in
March 2009.

Duffy, 44, from Forest Glade in Lurgan, Co Armagh, and Shivers, 46, from Sperrin
Mews, in Magherafelt, Co Londonderry, deny two charges of murder and the
attempted mur-der of six others - three soldiers, der of six others - three
soldiers, two delivery drivers and a security guard.

Mr Shivers has admitted attending meetings of republican socialist group Eirigi
but said he never joined and supports the peace process.

Mr O'Connor added: "With all these powers and opportunities the Crown has been
unable to place before you any sign of a political motive or a commitment which
could lie behind this."

He said his client had serious medical difficulties. "Mr Shivers is someone who
lives under the shadow of a limited lifespan for medical reasons," he added.

He said that in no way does that mean that he is necessarily innocent or could
not have committed the offences but added it would tend to have a "sobering
effect" on a man's approach to life."

He said the amount of DNA evidence linking his client to a mobile phone and
matchsticks in the getaway car was tiny.

Dominic McGlinchey Jnr regularly visited the accused and had used his matches,
Shivers has told the court.

Defence barrister Barry MacDonald QC previously told judge Mr Justice Anthony
Hart that police had reliable information that a son of Dominic McGlinchey Snr,
a dead leading republican, was the getaway vehicle driver.

(Proceeding)

LOAD-DATE: December 22, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:  Outside court: Brian Shivers has been accused of the murders of
sappers Patrick Azimkar, left, and Mark Quinsey in Antrim in 2009.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: em


               Copyright 2011 Midland Independent Newspapers plc
                              All Rights Reserved

                              296 of 331 DOCUMENTS


                               UK Government News

                    December 22, 2011 Thursday 1:07 PM  EST

FOREIGN SECRETARY CONDEMNS TERRORIST ATTACKS IN BAGHDAD

LENGTH: 154 words


LONDON, Dec. 22 -- The United Kingdom Foreign & Commonwealth Office issued the
following press release:

Foreign Secretary William Hague has condemned the "cowardly" attacks in Baghdad
on 22 December.

Commenting on the series of blasts that hit the Iraq's capital the Foreign
Secretary said:

"I condemn the attacks that took place in Baghdad this morning, resulting in the
death and injury of a large number of people. I offer my condolences to the
bereaved and injured.

"These cowardly attacks come at a time of political tension in Iraq. I hope that
leaders from across the political and sectarian spectrum will pull together to
establish a dialogue to ensure Iraq's political stability and to build a stable
future. The UK will support Iraq in its efforts to defeat extremism and
terrorism." For any query with respect to this article or any other content
requirement, please contact Editor at htsyndication@hindustantimes.com

LOAD-DATE: December 23, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newswire


                        Copyright 2011 HT Media Limited.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              297 of 331 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring Middle East - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                            December 23, 2011 Friday

Syria "strongly condemns" terror attacks in Iraq

LENGTH: 129 words


Text of report in English by state-run Syrian news agency SANA website

["Syria Strongly Condemns Terrorist Bombings in Iraq" - SANA Headline]

Damascus, (SANA) - Syria on Thursday [22 December] strongly condemned the series
of terrorist bombings ripped through the Iraqi capital of Baghdad which claimed
the lives of 63 people and injured more than 185 according to the Iraqi Interior
Ministry.

In a press release, Spokesman of Foreign Affairs and Expatriates Ministry said
that "Syria offers heartfelt condolences to the people and government of the
brotherly Iraq over the death of innocent civilians and expresses solidarity
with the victims' families, hoping that Iraq would restore its security and
stability."

Source: SANA news agency website, Damascus in English 23 Dec 11

LOAD-DATE: December 23, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2011 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              298 of 331 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring Middle East - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                            December 23, 2011 Friday

Civilians killed in Syrian terror attacks

LENGTH: 121 words


Damascus Syrian Satellite Channel Television in Arabic was observed at 0932 gmt
on 23 December to carry the following "urgent" news as a screen caption:

"The two terrorist attacks [targeting two security buildings in the Syrian
capital] result in the martyrdom of a number of soldiers and civilians. Most of
the victims, however, were civilians"

At 0946 gmt, the Syrian TV carried initial footage of the "terrorist" attacks on
the Syrian Intelligence Service headquarters and an unidentified security office
in Damascus. The video shows damaged buildings and vehicles, two deformed
bodies, human remains, and civilians and ambulances rushing the to scene.

Source: Syrian TV satellite service, Damascus, in Arabic 0932 gmt 23 Dec 11

LOAD-DATE: December 23, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2011 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              299 of 331 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring Middle East - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                            December 23, 2011 Friday

Thirty killed in Syrian terror attacks - Al-Jazeera

LENGTH: 53 words


Doha Al-Jazeera Satellite Channel Television in Arabic at 1100 gmt on 23
December carried the following "breaking" news as a screen caption:

"Syrian authorities: Thirty people have been killed and another 100 wounded in
the two Damascus blasts."

Further as warranted.

Source: Al-Jazeera TV, Doha, in Arabic 1100 gmt 23 Dec 11

LOAD-DATE: December 23, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2011 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              300 of 331 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring Middle East - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                            December 23, 2011 Friday

US condemns latest wave of terrorist attacks in Iraq

LENGTH: 260 words


Text of report in English by Kuwaiti government-owned news agency Kuna website

["US Condemns Latest Wave of Terrorist Attacks in Iraq" - KUNA Headline]

Washington, Dec 22 (KUNA) - The United States strongly condemns the latest wave
of terrorist attacks against innocent Iraqis, which serve no agenda other than
murder and hatred, White House press secretary Jay Carney said on Thursday.

"We offer our condolences to those whose loved ones were lost or wounded,"
Carney said in a statement released by the White House. "Attempts such as this
to derail Iraq's continued progress will fail." Iraq has suffered heinous
attacks like this in the past, and its security forces have shown they are up to
the task of responding and maintaining stability, he said.

"Time and again, the Iraqi people have shown their resilience in overcoming
efforts to divide them," Carney said. "We continue to urge leaders to come
together to face common challenges." Vice President Joe Biden spoke to several
senior Iraqi leaders over the past week.

On Thursday, Biden called Iraqi President Jalal Talabani "to offer our full
support for his efforts, and those of other Iraqi leaders, to foster dialogue
that will allow all Iraqi blocs to work through their differences together,"
Carney said.

Biden also reiterated the need for actions to be guided by the rule of law and
Iraq's Constitution, Carney noted, adding, "At this difficult time, the United
States stands with Iraq as a strategic partner and a close friend."

Source: Kuna news agency website, Kuwait, in English 2120 gmt 22 Dec 11

LOAD-DATE: December 23, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2011 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              301 of 331 DOCUMENTS


                            Manchester Evening News

                            December 23, 2011 Friday

Bangle raiders attack boy, 9, in home terror

BYLINE: Jennifer Williams

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 22

LENGTH: 80 words


A BOY of nine was attacked by armed robbers in his own home.

The boy answered the door at the house in Kirkstone Road, Hyde, at about 6pm on
Monday, December 12.

Three masked men one armed with a knife pushed past him, hitting him in the face
before threatening his 32-year-old mother. They searched upstairs before the
gang stole two 20-carat gold bangles with a leaf design. Anyone with information
should call police on 0161 856 9255 or Crimestoppers, anonymously, on 0800 555
111.

LOAD-DATE: December 23, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2011 Manchester Evening News
                              All Rights Reserved

                              302 of 331 DOCUMENTS


                            Manchester Evening News

                            December 23, 2011 Friday

Bangle raiders attack boy, 9, in home terror

BYLINE: Jennifer Williams

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 22

LENGTH: 80 words


A BOY of nine was attacked by armed robbers in his own home.

The boy answered the door at the house in Kirkstone Road, Hyde, at about 6pm on
Monday, December 12.

Three masked men one armed with a knife pushed past him, hitting him in the face
before threatening his 32-year-old mother. They searched upstairs before the
gang stole two 20-carat gold bangles with a leaf design. Anyone with information
should call police on 0161 856 9255 or Crimestoppers, anonymously, on 0800 555
111.

LOAD-DATE: January 4, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2011 Manchester Evening News
                              All Rights Reserved

                              303 of 331 DOCUMENTS


                            Manchester Evening News

                            December 23, 2011 Friday

Bangle raiders attack boy, 9, in home terror

BYLINE: Jennifer Williams

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 22

LENGTH: 80 words


A BOY of nine was attacked by armed robbers in his own home.

The boy answered the door at the house in Kirkstone Road, Hyde, at about 6pm on
Monday, December 12.

Three masked men one armed with a knife pushed past him, hitting him in the face
before threatening his 32-year-old mother. They searched upstairs before the
gang stole two 20-carat gold bangles with a leaf design. Anyone with information
should call police on 0161 856 9255 or Crimestoppers, anonymously, on 0800 555
111.

LOAD-DATE: January 14, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2011 Manchester Evening News
                              All Rights Reserved

                              304 of 331 DOCUMENTS


                                  Morning Star

                            December 23, 2011 Friday

Terrorist attack leaves 40 dead

SECTION: WORLD

LENGTH: 349 words


The blasts, both caused by car bombs, took place outside the headquarters of the
General Intelligence Agency and a branch of the military intelligence in the
Kfar Sousa neighbourhood. Windows within a 200-yard radius were shattered.
Military officials said that more than 100 people had been injured, mostly
civilians but including some military and security personnel.

Although conflict between the government and its opponents has become
increasingly bloody recently suicide bombs have not previously featured, leading
to speculation that international terrorist groups such as al-Qaida may have
become involved. The government, which has drawn widespread condemnation for its
violent response to 10 months of protest demonstrations, said that the bombings
were proof of its argument that it was defending itself against militant
opponents. Deputy Foreign Minister Faysal Mekdad told reporters: "We have said
it from the beginning, this is terrorism. "They are killing the army and
civilians." Arab League observers brought in to monitor unrest in the country
said the bombings were "regretful." But opposition leaders raised doubts about
the government's story. Omar Idilbi of the Syrian National Council - an umbrella
group of various anti-government figures - said: "The presence of the Arab
League team of observers pushed the regime to give this story to scare the
committee from moving around Syria." When questioned he refused to accuse the
government of having organised the attacks itself but warned that it would be
used to sway "Arab League and international public opinion" against opponents of
President Bashar Assad. Kfar Sousa resident Haifa Nashar, who witnessed the
explosions, said she had never seen anything like them in her life and blamed
Islamist extremists for trying to divide the country. "This is what Hamad
wants," she said, referring to the Qatari prime minister who has led
condemnation of Syria in the Arab League. "There never was any difference
between Syrian Sunnis, Christians or Alawites" - the last being the Muslim faith
to which President Assad belongs.

LOAD-DATE: December 24, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


               Copyright 2011 People's Press Printing Society Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                              305 of 331 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                      December 23, 2011 Friday 7:05 PM GMT

US Election 2012: Ron Paul under fire for racist newsletters;
Ron Paul, the fringe Republican hopeful who is threatening an upset victory in
Iowa, was today engulfed in a political storm following the emergence of
newsletters where he described Martin Luther King as a paedophile, said most
black men were criminals and speculated that Israel was behind a terrorist
attack on the United States.

BYLINE: By Raf Sanchez Washington

LENGTH: 734 words


The wild claims were made in a series of newsletters that the Texan Congressman
began producing in the late 1980s, where he offered paid subscribers advice on
how to survive "the coming race war" and how to protect themselves from tax
collectors armed with machine guns.

Mr Paul said that he did not write the letters himself, did not read them and
"disavowed" their message but is under growing pressure to explain how he could
be unaware of dozens of inflammatory messages which were produced over more than
a decade.

In one undated letter that carries Mr Paul's signature, he writes: "I've been
told not to talk, but these stooges don't scare me. Threats or no threats, I've
laid bare the coming race war in our big cities. The federal-homosexual cover-up
on Aids (my training as a physician helps me see through this one.) The Bohemian
Grove - perverted, pagan playground of the powerful."

Another from December 1990 describes how King "was not only a world-class
adulterer, he also seduced underage girls and boys", while one written in the
aftermath of the 1992 Los Angeles riots said order was only restored in the city
"when it came time for blacks to pick up their welfare cheques".

A letter from 1992 reads: "Given the inefficiencies of what [Washington] DC
laughingly calls the 'criminal justice system,' I think we can safely assume
that 95 percent of the black males in that city are semi-criminal or entirely
criminal."

<preform> Ron Paul letter <iframe class="scribd_iframe_embed"
src="http://www.scribd.com/embeds/76391325/content?start_page=1&view_mode=list&a
ccess_key=key-v4m9j5f7oa817hqtkpi" data-auto-height="false"
data-aspect-ratio="0.772727272727273" scrolling="no" id="doc_59604" width="460"
height="655" frameborder="0"></iframe></preform>

After a car bomb exploded in the basement of the World Trade Centre in 1993 one
newsletter speculates that the attack may have been "a setup by the Israeli
Mossad".

The reports were promoted as a guide for Americans to protect their families and
their property from apocalyptic visions of social breakdown and a tyrannical
federal government. They were not paid for out of public funds but were often
signed "Congressman Ron Paul".

Mr Paul has not denied that he made money from the publications and at least one
signed letter ends with a request for the reader to send a cheque or order over
the phone by calling 1-800-RON-PAUL. Most of the letters are written in the
first person and some describe Mr Paul is described as "Editor and Publisher".

When challenged over the letters in an interview with CNN, the 76-year-old
former obstetrician said: "I didn't write them. I didn't read them at the time
and I disavow them." When pressed on the subject, he removed his microphone and
walked out of the interview.

A spokesman later said: "It is ridiculous to imply that Ron Paul is a bigot,
racist, or unethical."

This week a video from 1995 emerged, where Mr Paul describes the letters as
"educational" and seems familiar with their contents, raising questions about
his claim to have only read them a decade after they were written.

A campaign spokesman said that in the video he was referring to his investment
newsletter, not the Ron Paul Survival Reports where the most incendiary claims
were made.

The newsletters first surfaced during Mr Paul's unsuccessful 2008 presidential
bid but have come under fresh scrutiny as the libertarian overtakes rival Newt
Gingrich and Mitt Romney in the polls in the crucial early voting state of Iowa.

His policies of scrapping the Federal Reserve and withdrawing American forces
from around the world have a limited appeal with the broader electorate but he
has a fiercely loyal band of supporters and is the third highest fundraiser in
the Republican race, falling only behind Mr Romney and Texas governor Rick
Perry.

Mr Gingrich's lead in Iowa has evaporated under a withering series of attack ads
by his opponents, while Mr Paul's numbers have crept up to the point that most
polls show him in the lead with less than two weeks to go until the vote on
January 3.

Even if he prevails in Iowa, it is highly unlikely that he could go on to win
the Republican nomination or the general election against President Barack Obama
next year. But the Congressman, who in 1988 ran for president as the candidate
of the Libertarian party, has not ruled out running as an independent against
his fellow Republicans.

LOAD-DATE: December 23, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTNS


                  Copyright 2011 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              306 of 331 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring Middle East - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                           December 24, 2011 Saturday

Syrian clerics condemn terrorist attacks in Damascus

LENGTH: 109 words


Text of report by H. Said in English by state-run Syrian news agency SANA
website

["Mosque imams and preachers condemn the two terrorist attacks in Damascus"]

Damascus - Imams and preachers of mosques on Friday [23 ] condemned the two
terrorist attacks which targeted State Security Directorate and another Security
Branch in Damascus, causing many military and civilian deaths and the majority
were civilians.

The Imams stressed in a statement that Islam has nothing to do with any
terrorist attack that targets the security of the homeland and citizens and the
unity and stability of the country.

Source: SANA news agency website, Damascus in English 23 Dec 11

LOAD-DATE: December 24, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2011 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              307 of 331 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring Middle East - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                           December 24, 2011 Saturday

Jordan condemns "terrorist attacks" in Syrian capital

LENGTH: 157 words


Text of report in English by official Jordanian news agency Petra-JNA website

["Jordan Condemns Terrorist Attacks in Damascus"]

Amman, 23 December  - Jordan on Friday [23 December] condemned the terrorist
attacks that targeted the Syrian capital Damascus. Spokesman of the Ministry of
Foreign Affairs, Ambassador Muhammad al-Kayid said that Jordan, stemming from
its firm position, which rejects and condemns all forms of terrorism, strongly
condemns the two terrorist attacks which occurred in the Syrian capital Damascus
today.

Al-Kayid expressed the Kingdom's deepest condolences to the families of the
victims of the attacks and wished the injured a speedy recovery. He said that
Jordan hopes that the stability, harmony and security prevail in Syria and that
killing and bloodshed stop. The spokesman also said that Jordan hopes that
immediate reforms are implemented in Syria.

Source: Petra-JNA website, Amman, in English 2100 gmt 23 Dec 11

LOAD-DATE: December 24, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2011 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              308 of 331 DOCUMENTS


                       BBC Monitoring Africa - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                           December 24, 2011 Saturday

Police arrest six suspected of planning terror attacks on Christmas

LENGTH: 165 words


Excerpt from report by Kenyan privately-owned newspaper Daily Nation website on
24 December

Six suspected Al-Shabab militants have been arrested amid reports that the
terrorist group planned to carry out attacks in Nairobi and Mombasa over the
festive period.

Police commissioner Mathew Iteere said the suspects arrested on separate days
this week belong to a local cell of the group with links to the global
Al-Qa'idah terror network.

"We've addressed threats in Mombasa and Nairobi. We have arrested six suspects,
two in Mombasa and the others here (Nairobi). We are on high alert and we are
going to increase police visibility in public places in those areas," he said.

The local cell of Al-Shabab operates from Majengo area in Nairobi, according to
a past confidential security brief seen by the Nation.

The police chief said the suspects had been interrogated and that his officers
were on the look out for others.[Passage omitted].

Source: Daily Nation website, Nairobi, in English 24 Dec 11

LOAD-DATE: December 24, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2011 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              309 of 331 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring Middle East - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                           December 24, 2011 Saturday

Syria's Ba'th Party says "terrorist attacks" indicate "colonial plot"

LENGTH: 422 words


Text of report in English by state-run Syrian news agency SANA website

["Al-Ba'th Party Regional Leadership: Terrorist Attacks Clear Indicator of Path
Taken by Zionist-Ameri..." - SANA Headline]

Regional Leadership of al-Ba'th Arab Socialist Party affirmed that the terrorist
attacks that took place on Friday [24 December] in Damascus constitute a
dangerous precedent in attempting to undermine national unity and targeting
citizens and military personnel, homes and workplaces.

In a statement, the Regional Leadership that these attacks constitute a clear
indicator of path taken by the Zionist-American colonial plot to fragment Syria,
destroy its establishments and undermine the steadfastness of its people and
their confidence in their leadership and its reform project.

The statement said that Friday's attacks are a new chapter in the crimes of
terrorist who are funded and armed by forces from abroad, saying that it has
become evident that these groups and those who support them don't want reform
and that democracy, human rights and people's aspirations mean nothing to them.

The Regional Leadership said staging the attacks on a Friday is a deliberate
attack on the Syrian values and religious legacy, and that these attacks provide
living proof to the Arab League observer mission which began arriving in Syria,
which proves that any step taken by Syria towards emerging from the crisis is
faced by hindrance and violence.

The statement affirmed that the Syrian people will not be terrorized by such
criminal methods, as this people foiled all scenarios from within and from
outside, stressing that the best response for such a heinous terrorist act would
be to rally around the country, its establishment and President Bashar al-Assad.

The Regional Leadership said that such terrorist acts require the international
community to condemn them and help eliminate them, as terrorism is a threat to
the entire world, adding that refraining from condemning such acts would
encourage them and the forces that support them.

The statement affirmed that Syria will continue the reform process and will not
be dissuaded by terrorism and instigation, saying that national unity is needed
now more than ever and that such dirty terrorist acts will not undermine the
resolve of the Syrian people.

The Regional Leadership concluded by saluting Syria and its people and praying
for the souls of the martyrs who fell in Friday's attacks along with the martyrs
who fell before them

Source: SANA news agency website, Damascus in English 24 Dec 11

LOAD-DATE: December 24, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2011 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              310 of 331 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring Middle East - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                           December 24, 2011 Saturday

Syrians hold protests in various cities to condemn "terrorist attacks"

LENGTH: 275 words


Text of report by H. Said published in English by state-run Syrian news agency
SANA website

["Crowds of Syrians gather in a number of cities in condemnation of terrorist
attacks"]

Provinces - A huge gathering of citizens on Friday [23 December] flocked to
Saba' Bahrat Square in the capital Damascus in condemnation of the two terrorist
attacks which targeted the State Security Directorate and another Security
Branch in the city and the sabotage and criminal operations committed by the
armed terrorist groups.

Crowds of people of the southern province of Suwaydah streamed into al-Shu'leh
Square expressing denunciation of the terrorist attacks in Damascus and their
rejection of attempts at foreign interference in the internal affairs of the
Syrian people.

The gathered people chanted slogans stressing adherence to national unity and
the independence of Syria's national decision.

Meanwhile, citizens of Tal Tamr city in Hasaka Province, northeastern Syria,
gathered in Adnan al-Maliki Square in condemnation of the terrorist attacks and
in expression of their support to the reforms taking place in Syria under the
leadership of President Bashar al-Assad.

Expressing their denouncement of and anger at the terrorist attacks in the
capital, masses of the citizens of al-Safsafeh area in the coastal province of
Tartous gathered in the Municipality square to stress determination to confront
the conspiracy targeting their homeland.

The participants reiterated commitment to the sovereignty and independence of
the Syrian leadership and rejection of foreign meddling in their country's
affairs.

Source: SANA news agency website, Damascus in English 23 Dec 11

LOAD-DATE: December 24, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2011 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              311 of 331 DOCUMENTS



                               The Sun (England)

                           December 24, 2011 Saturday
                                   Edition 1;
                                    Ireland

'TERROR' ATTACK

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 21 words


Syria yesterday blamed al-Qaeda for bombs that killed 40 in Damascus, as rights
observers prepared to enter the country today.

LOAD-DATE: December 24, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: SUN


                    Copyright 2011 NEWS GROUP NEWSPAPERS LTD
                              All Rights Reserved

                              312 of 331 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring Middle East - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                            December 26, 2011 Monday

Syrian TV reviews ''terror attacks'' on security agencies, civilians

LENGTH: 995 words


Text of report by Syrian TV on 24 December

In recent months, the Syrians' memories have been burdened with many terrorist
crimes that caused thousands of casualties within the ranks of civilians and
military personnel alike. In the following report, colleague Abduh Halimah
reviews the most prominent terrorist attacks and the terrorists' actions.

[Begin video recording] [Halimah] Since the beginning of the crisis in Syria,
the hands of terrorists have wreaked havoc in northern and southern Syria.
Terrorists have found a safe haven to carry out the last stage of their plan to
destroy Syria. As for those whose memories have failed them, and all those who
are denying that terrorist attacks are being carried out, we are now reviewing
before you the most prominent criminal and bloody incidents carried out by armed
terrorist groups in Syria. Examples of these are the scenes of mass killings
seen in the city of Jisr al-Shughur in May, as a result of which more than 120
security troops and policemen were martyred and buried in mass graves after
their dead bodies had been mutilated. And here is one terrorist making a
confession. The video clips made by his mobile phone and the mobile phones of
his accomplices prove that they were at the scene of the crime.

[Ammar Talib Mu'az, a young man from Al-Janudiyah in Idlib, previously shown in
a Damascus Syrian Satellite Channel Television report carried at 1730 gmt on 29
August] We went down to the Al-Sawma'ah area in Jisr al-Shughur. There, they
distributed weapons and shotguns to us, and asked us to head for the military
security detachment in Jisr al-Shughur, which we did. Around 700 or 800 of us
went down there. Whenever somebody emptied a magazine, they gave him another
one. From 0800 until 1300, we continued to fire at the detachment.

[Halimah] Among the heinous crimes that shocked the public opinion was the
killing and mutilation of the dead bodies of conscripts and volunteer soldiers
at the police station of the Al-Hadir neighbourhood in the city of Hamah. There,
they were killed and their bodies were thrown into the Orontes River with utmost
savagery. This is the confession of another criminal who participated in the
operation; and he is pointing to what he was doing using a video footage of the
incident. He is now speaking.

[Unidentified man] Following the attack on the Al-Hadir Police Station, they
asked us to remove the bodies and put them in a remote location. So, we put them
in a pick-up truck and moved them to the nearest bridge, which is the
Al-Dahiriyah Bridge. I, along with another person called Ahmad al-Ta'aan, can be
seen here [pointing to an archival video footage]. We are shown carrying [the
dead bodies]. And here [pointing to a man in the archival video footage that has
been paused] is an armed person from the Al-Shamali family; he accompanied us
when we made the road trip back and forth. This bridge is located between the
Al-Dahiriyah junction and a village [corrects himself] or a sub-district called
Kazu. This is a highway connecting Homs to Halab.

[Halimah] In an operation that reflects the nature of the scheme and what is
meant to be implemented against Syria, a sleeper bus used by a select group of
pilots and technicians was targeted in the Al-Furuqlus area in Homs. As a result
of this operation, which occurred on in November, 11 persons were martyred. The
most recent terrorist operation that took place on Friday, when the General
Intelligence Agency and the area branch [of the Military Intelligence] in
Damascus were targeted, and which claimed the lives of more than 44 civilians
and military personnel and caused the wounding of 166 others, most of them
seriously, it was carried out by using two booby-trapped vehicles driven by two
suicide bombers.

Moreover, sleeper and public transport buses used by civilians and military
personnel were also targeted, as happened in Homs, Hamah, Dar'a, Idlib, Dayr
al-Zawr, and Rif Dimashq. These attacks caused hundreds of casualties, not to
mention the abductions, rapes, and the mutilation of dead bodies and tearing
them apart. Competent national experts, including inventors, scientists,
university professors, and others, have topped the terrorists' hit lists in a
bid to deprive Syria of its scientists. The assassination of Nayif al-Dakhil,
dean of the Faculty of Chemistry in Homs; Isa Abbud, an investor; Dr Hasan Id, a
physician; and other competent Syrians offers a clear and cogent proof of the
nature of this scheme.

They have killed civilians and mutilated their dead bodies. Dozens of people,
and, at times, hundreds of people, have come together to kill one man, as
happened, for example, in Dayr al-Zawr, when we saw the horrendous cutting of
the body of this citizen after he had been killed [pointing to an archival video
footage of the mutilation].

The other aspect of terrorism targets public and service facilities, including
banks, communication facilities, media outlets, and other facilities. The most
important such attacks took the form of vandalizing railroads and trains which
carry hundreds of passengers, not to mention the citizens' basic staple. The
most important such attacks were the attack on the railroad in the city of
(?Harrib Nafsu) in Hama, the attack on a cargo train in Idlib, the repeated
attacks on the railroad in Jisr al-Shugur, and two attacks on the railroad in
Tall Kalakh in Homs.

Moreover, terrorism has repeatedly targeted oil and gas pipelines in Homs and
Dayr al-Zawr. In addition, several power stations were disabled. Terrorists
everywhere seek to plant explosives in all populated areas [words indistinct]
the assembly areas of citizens and near mosques. Following all these documented
acts of criminality and terrorism, will they learn their lesson and admit their
actions? I might hear the comments of dear viewers. They know about this, but
they will not admit it. [end recording]

Source: Syrian TV satellite service, Damascus, in Arabic 1913 gmt 24 Dec 11

LOAD-DATE: December 26, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2011 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              313 of 331 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring Middle East - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                            December 26, 2011 Monday

Syrian recounts attack by ''terrorists'' in Dar'a

LENGTH: 225 words


Text of report in English by state-run Syrian news agency SANA website

["Daraa Local Relates Details of Attempt on His Life by Armed Terrorist Group" -
SANA Headline]

Dar'a (SANA) - Dar'a local Kifah Abu Hawwaa related the details of how he was
injured when an armed terrorist group shot at him in his store which was
vandalized because he refused to yield to the terrorists' demands to close it
down.

Abu Hawwaa told the Syrian TV that he's against strikes because they hurt
people's livelihood, and that he won't have anyone control him and his work,
noting that he was threatened several time in order to get him to close his
store.

"While I was in the store, a car containing three hooded gunmen stopped and two
of the gunmen came out of it, one of them carrying an AK-47 and the other a
handgun; they shot at me and hit me three times in the chest, then one of them
tried to record footage but couldn't because people started to gather around,"
he said.

Abu Hawwaa went on to say that one of the gunmen picked up a child and put a gun
to the head to cover their retreat to the car, and after reaching the car they
tossed the child aside and they escaped.

He pointed out that his refusal to participate in protests was the reason the
gunmen tried to kill him in order to make him an example.

Source: SANA news agency website, Damascus in English 26 Dec 11

LOAD-DATE: December 26, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2011 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              314 of 331 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring Middle East - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                            December 26, 2011 Monday

Cleric says Syria ''terror attacks'' warning to Arab countries

LENGTH: 326 words


Text of report in English by state-run Syrian news agency SANA website

["Archbishop Hanna: Awareness and Wisdom of Syrians will Foil Conspiracy" - SANA
Headline]

Occupied Jerusalem (SANA) - Archbishop of the Sebastian Roman Orthodox Church,
Attallah Hanna affirmed that Damascus terrorist attacks are a message to all the
Arab nation and not only to Syria.

He indicated that the conspiracy hatched against Syria is due to its
confrontation of the colonial-Zionist scheme, reiterating that the awareness and
wisdom of the Syrian people and their adherence to their national unity and
their support to their leadership will foil the conspiracy.

In an interview with the Syrian TV on Sunday [25 December], the archbishop
considered that what is taking place in the region is a new Sykes-Picot project
aiming at dividing the region and liquidating the Palestinian cause.

He called upon all the Arabs to recognize the danger of the current stage which
the region is passing through, and to stand by Syria and its people in the face
of this dangerous plot. He said that the Palestinian people support the Syrians
in face of the systematic terrorism, crimes and sabotage which aim at stirring
sedition among the Syrians who represent a sample of co-existence, amity and
national unity. He called upon the Syrian people to unite their ranks in order
to thwart the conspiracy hatched against Syria.

He expressed deep regret that the Arab leaders have forgotten the Palestinian
cause, affirming that Syria is the only steadfast country in the region as it
has always resisted the Zionist-US project. He pointed out that some mass media
and figures are partners in the conspiracy which targets Syria and the unity of
the Arab nation and the pan-Arab project.

He warned the thinkers and intellectuals not to be charmed by the slogans of
democracy and freedom launched by the West to achieve their goals in the region.

Source: SANA news agency website, Damascus in English 26 Dec 11

LOAD-DATE: December 26, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2011 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              315 of 331 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring Middle East - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                            December 26, 2011 Monday

Israel condemns Nigeria terror attacks in "strongest terms," pledges aid

LENGTH: 113 words


Text of press release in English entitled "Israel strongly condemns terror
attacks in Nigeria" by Israeli Ministry of Foreign Affairs website on 26
December

Israel condemns in the strongest terms the terror attacks that occurred in
Nigeria on Christmas Day and expresses deep sadness at the loss of lives of
innocent people.

The government of the State of Israel conveys its condolences to the government
of Nigeria, the Nigerian people and the families of the victims and wishes a
speedy recovery to the injured. Israel will be providing the Nigerian
authorities with medical supplies to treat the injured.

Source: Ministry of Foreign Affairs website, Jerusalem, in English 26 Dec 11

LOAD-DATE: December 26, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2011 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              316 of 331 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                      December 26, 2011 Monday 9:57 AM GMT

Nigeria bombings: worshippers fear more attacks;
Worshippers at the Nigerian Catholic church where a terror attack killed 35
people on Christmas Day say they fear Islamic militants will target more
churches.

BYLINE: By Duncan Gardham Laura Heaton in Nairobi

LENGTH: 827 words


At least 52 others were wounded when the blast went off at St. Theresa Catholic
Church near Nigeria's capital. On Monday, women tried to clean the church ahead
of Mass, with one man weeping uncontrollably.

Rev. Father Christopher Jataudarde told The Associated Press that one victim
begged him for religious atonement after Sunday's attack, crying: "Father, pray
for me, I will not survive."

A radical Muslim sect known as Boko Haram claimed responsibility for the attacks
Sunday across the country. The group previously targeted police and military,
but has expanded its aim in recent months.

At least 40 people were killed around the country by a series of attacks

Boko Haram                     , a group with ties to al-Qaeda, claimed
responsibility for the attacks, as they continued to escalate a campaign against
moderate Muslims, Christians and Western influence.

Nicknamed the Nigerian Taliban, they have become of increasing concern to
British intelligence and are responsible for at least 500 killings this year.

Britain, the Vatican and the White House condemned the attacks, which Nigerian
security officials said were premeditated.

The first explosion struck at the St Theresa Catholic Church in Madalla, a
satellite town about 25 miles from the capital, Abuja.

Rescue workers recovered at least 35 bodies from the church according to Father
Christopher Barde, Assistant Catholic Priest of the church. Dozens more were
injured.

The church was still packed when the explosion went off as members of the
congregation poured out at the end of Christmas mass.

Eyewitness reports said the large church's front roof had collapsed in the blast
which had also destroyed several houses and burned out five cars.

One witness, Nnana Nwachukwu, said the blast occurred on the road outside the
church.

"Mass just ended and people were rushing out of the church and suddenly I heard
a loud sound 'bam'. Cars were in flames and bodies littered everywhere," he
added.

Timothy Onyekwere said: "We were in the church with my family when we heard the
explosion. I just ran out. Now I don't even know where my children or my wife
are. I don't know how many were killed but there were many dead."

Others reported that some fatally injured victims ran towards a priest saying
"Father anoint me". A Vatican spokeman called the bombings "blind hatred".

Bashir Adigun, a local journalist who arrived at the shortly after explosion
told the Daily Telegraph the attack appeared to be a car bomb and a vehicle was
still burning when he arrived at the scene.

Thousands of angry youths set up burning road blocks on the highway from Abuja
leading to Nigeria's largely Muslim north.

A second explosion struck in a business area of the city of Jos near the
Mountain of Fire and Miracles Church and gunmen later opened fire on police
guarding the area, killing one police officer.

Two bombs were also found in a nearby building and defused, according to Pam
Ayuba a government spokesman.

The city of Jos is located on the dividing line between Nigeria's predominantly
Christian south and Muslim north. Thousands have died in communal clashes there
over the last decade. Jos was hit by bombings on Christmas Eve last year, which
killed at least 32.

The northeastern city of Damaturu was also struck by two blasts, including a
suicide car bombing, according to the local police commissioner, where three
were killed. A further explosion targeted a church in the northeastern area of
Gadaka, but no one was reported killed.

A Boko Haram spokesman, using the nom de guerre Abul-Qaqa, claimed
responsibility for the attacks in an interview with the respected northern
newspaper The Daily Trust.

William Hague, the Foreign Secretary, condemned the "cowardly attacks on
families gathered in peace and prayer to celebrate a day which symbolises
harmony and goodwill towards others."

Security sources have told the Daily Telegraph that Boko Haram has recently
gained expertise from al-Qaeda in the Islamic Maghreb (AQIM) in North Africa and
al-Shabaab in Somalia and has adopted an increasingly internationalist outlook.

The US Embassy in Abuja had issued a warning on Friday to be "particularly
vigilant around churches and other places of worship, locations where large
crowds may gather, and areas frequented by expatriates and foreign travellers."

On August 26, the group launched its first known suicide attack against the UN
building in Abuja, killing at least 23 people and wounding 76 wounded in an
explosion which gutted the ground floor.

Boko Haram fighters had launched attacks in Damaturu in the days before
Christmas, leading to the deaths of at least 61 people, according to the
Nigerian government.

On Christmas Day two years ago Umar Farouq Abulmutallab, a former student at
University College London who was the son of a Nigerian banker, tried to kill
blow himself up using a bomb in his underpants on a trans-Atlantic flight to
Detroit.

LOAD-DATE: December 26, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTNS


                  Copyright 2011 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              317 of 331 DOCUMENTS


                                The Western Mail

                            December 26, 2011 Monday
                                 First Edition

Wave of terror attacks on churches in Nigeria

BYLINE: ELLEN BRANAGH

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 378 words


FOREIGN secretary William Hague has condemned bomb attacks on several churches
in Nigeria.

Radical Muslim sect Boko Haram claimed responsibility for an explosion during
Christmas Mass at a Catholic church near Nigeria's capital that left 25 people
dead and another bombing in the city of Jos.

Explosions also struck the nation's north-east - one blast struck a church in
the north-eastern town of Gadaka and two explosions rocked the northern city of
Damaturu, making five blasts in total.

The assaults come a year after a series of Christmas Eve bombings in Jos claimed
by the militants left at least 32 dead and 74 wounded.

Foreign Secretary William Hague said: "I condemn the bomb attacks in or near
churches in Nigeria.

"These are cowardly attacks on families gathered in peace and prayer to
celebrate a day which symbolises harmony and goodwill towards others.

"I offer my condolences to the bereaved and injured."

The Vatican has denounced the attacks as a sign of "cruelty and absurd, blind
hatred" that shows no respect for human life.

The Christmas Day attacks show the growing national ambition of the sect known
as Boko Haram, which is responsible for at least 491 killings this year.

The assaults come a year after a series of Christmas Eve bombings in Jos claimed
by the militants left at least 32 dead and 74 wounded.

The first explosion struck St Theresa Catholic Church in Madalla, a town in
Niger state close to the capital Abuja.

Rescue workers recovered at least 25 bodies from the church and officials
continued to tally those wounded in various hospitals, said Nigeria's National
Emergency Management Agency.

The agency has acknowledged it did not have enough ambulances immediately on
hand to help the wounded. An angry crowd that gathered at the blast site
hampered rescue efforts as they refused to allow workers inside.

In Jos, a second explosion struck near a Mountain of Fire and Miracles Church.

Gunmen later opened fire on police guarding the area, killing one police
officer. Two other locally-made explosives were found in a nearby building and
disarmed.

Jos is located on the dividing line between Nigeria's predominantly Christian
south and Muslim north. Thousands have died in communal clashes there over the
last decade.

LOAD-DATE: December 26, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: wm


                    Copyright 2011 Western Mail and Echo Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                              318 of 331 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring Middle East - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                           December 27, 2011 Tuesday

Syrian parliament condemned terrorist attacks in capital

LENGTH: 236 words


Text of report in English by state-run Syrian news agency SANA website

["Syrian People's Assembly Condemned Terrorist Attacks against" - SANA Headline]

Damascus, (SANA) -Syrian People's Assembly (PNA) vehemently condemned the two
terrorist attacks against two Security headquarters in Damascus last Friday [23
December], which caused the martyrdom of tens of Syrians and injury of more than
150 ones.

The names of the martyrs, many of them civilian passers-by , were officially
published yesterday evening .

The Assembly, in a session chaired by PNA's Chairman Dr Mahmoud Al-Abrash,
recalled Syria's repeated calls for many years for the convening of an
international conference as to combat terrorism in all of its aspects as well as
those who stand behind it.

The Assembly observed a minute of silence in homage and respect to the Martyrs,
highly lauding their sacrifices.

The People's Assembly MP's , underscoringthe need for dialogue as to solve the
crisis, reiterated their pledge to pursue the march of reforms led and
masterminded by H.E. President Bashar al-Asad.

The Assembly also took several decisions on some draft laws, in particular with
regard to imposing a 30 per cent tax on the total value of all
Turkish-originated goods imported to Syria; the tax is allocated for supporting
the construction of under-development villages in Syria.

Al-Ibrahim

Source: SANA news agency website, Damascus in English 27 Dec 11

LOAD-DATE: December 27, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2011 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              319 of 331 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring Middle East - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                           December 27, 2011 Tuesday

Clans in Iraq, Syria denounce "terrorist" attacks in Damascus

LENGTH: 164 words


Text of report in English by state-run Syrian news agency SANA website

["Al-Sada al-Ashraf Busalama, al-Ma'amra Clans Denounce Terrorist Bombings" -
SANA Headline]

Damascus: Al-Sada al-Ashraf al-Busalama clans in Iraq and Syria denounced the
terrorist bombings in Damascus on Friday [23 December], which killed 44 and
wounded 166 civilians and military members.

The clans said in a statement on Monday that the perpetrators of the twin
terrorist attacks wanted to break Syria's dignity, affirming that they will
instead sharpen Syria's adherence to its firm principles under the leadership of
President Bashar al-Assad.

Al-Ma'amra clan in Syria also condemned in a statement the twin terrorist
attacks, describing them as a heinous crime against the Syrian people and
national army.

Al-Ma'amra clan called upon the clans to do their humanitarian duty in building
modern Syria under the leadership of President al-Assad.

M. Ismael

Source: SANA news agency website, Damascus in English 26 Dec 11

LOAD-DATE: December 27, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2011 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              320 of 331 DOCUMENTS


                                  Morning Star

                           December 27, 2011 Tuesday

Terrorist group claims attack

BYLINE: Our Foreign Desk

SECTION: WORLD

LENGTH: 197 words


The Islamic State of Iraq posted a statement on a number of militant websites
saying it had launched the deadly attacks "to support the weak Sunnis in the
prisons of the apostates" - a reference to the country's majority Shi'ites. It
also accused Iraq's government of being a puppet of Iran, saying that "the
mojahedin will never stand with their hands tied while the pernicious Iranian
project shows its ugly face." But it made no mention of the withdrawal of US
occupation forces which occurred several days before the bombings. Baghdad
military spokesman Major General Qassim al-Moussawi said that al-Qaida was
hoping to take advantage of "current political tension" to re-ignite sectarian
warfare. Prime Minister Nouri al-Maliki recently issued an arrest warrant for
Vice-President Tariq al-Hashemi on charges that he used to run hit squads. He
has also moved a motion of no confidence in his deputy Saleh al-Mutlaq. As Mr
Maliki is a Shi'ite but Mr Hashemi and Mr Mutlaq are Sunnis many members of the
latter community feel that the government is attempting to shut them out of
power. The attacks last Thursday were the deadliest that the country has seen in
the last four months.

LOAD-DATE: December 28, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


               Copyright 2011 People's Press Printing Society Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                              321 of 331 DOCUMENTS


                            Nottingham Evening Post

                           December 27, 2011 Tuesday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

Christmas terror attacks kill 39 people in Nigeria

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 391 words


TERROR attacks across Nigeria by a radical Muslim sect killed at least 39 people
- the majority dying on the steps of a church after a massive explosion
following Christmas Mass. Authorities said yesterday they could not provide
enough emergency medical staff to care for the wounded outside St Theresa
Catholic Church in Madalla, near Nigeria's capital Abuja. Elsewhere, a bomb
exploded amid gunfire in the central city of Jos and a suicide car bomber
attacked the military in the nation's north east as part of an apparently
coordinated assault by the sect known as Boko Haram.

The Christmas Day violence, condemned by world leaders and the Vatican, shows
the threat of the widening insurrection posed by Boko Haram against Nigeria's
weak government.

Despite a recent crackdown against the sect in the oil-rich nation, it appears
that Africa's most populated nation remains unable to stop the threat.

The White House condemned what it called a "senseless" attack, offered its
condolences to the Nigerian people and pledged to assist authorities in bringing
those responsible to justice.

Britain's Foreign Secretary William Hague said, "These are cowardly attacks on
families gathered in peace and prayer to celebrate a day which symbolises
harmony and goodwill towards others."

United Nations secretary general Ban Ki-Moon called for an end to sectarian
violence.

The first explosion struck St Theresa just after 8am. The attack killed 35
people and wounded another 52, said a coordinator with Nigeria's National
Emergency Management Agency.

Although billions of oil money flows into the nation's budget every year, the
agency had to resort to sending text messages to journalists asking for their
help in getting more ambulances. The bombing and the delayed response drew anger
from those gathering around the church after the blast. The crowd initially
blocked emergency workers from the blast site, only allowing them in after
soldiers arrived.

In Jos, a second explosion struck near the Mountain of Fire and Miracles Church.
Gunmen later opened fire on police guarding the area, killing one officer. Two
explosive devices were found in a building and disarmed.

By noon, explosions echoed through the streets of Damaturu, the capital of Yobe
state, where fighting between security forces and the sect had already killed at
least 61 people in recent days.

LOAD-DATE: December 27, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: NEP


                     Copyright 2011 Nottingham Evening Post
                              All Rights Reserved

                              322 of 331 DOCUMENTS


                                South Wales Echo

                           December 27, 2011 Tuesday
                                 First Edition

Terror attack on steps of church;
AROUND THE WORLD

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 75 words


NIGERIA Terror attacks across the country by a radical Muslim sect killed at
least 39 people - the majority dying on the steps of a church after celebrating
Christmas Mass.

A massive explosion outside St Theresa Catholic Church in Madalla, near
Nigeria's capital Abuja caused many injuries as well as deaths.

Elsewhere, a bomb exploded amid gunfire in the central city of Jos and a suicide
car bomber attacked the military in the nation's north-east.

LOAD-DATE: December 27, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: sw


                    Copyright 2011 Western Mail and Echo Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                              323 of 331 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring Middle East - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                          December 28, 2011 Wednesday

Syria's Al-Sharabin clan condemns twin "terrorist" attacks in Damascus

LENGTH: 111 words


Text of report in English by state-run Syrian news agency SANA website

["Al-Sharabeen Clan Condemns the Two Terrorist Attacks in Damascus" - SANA
Headline]

Damascus, (SANA) -Al-Sharabin clan on Tuesday [27 December] condemned the twin
terrorist attacks committed in Damascus last Friday.

The clan said in a statement that the attacks prove the bankruptcy of the evil
powers and their failure to perpetrate their schemes in Syria.

The clan called upon all the Syrians to unite under the leadership of President
Bashar al-Asad, stressing that Syria will remain immune to plots and
conspiracies.

M. Nassr/ M. Eyon

Source: SANA news agency website, Damascus in English 27 Dec 11

LOAD-DATE: December 28, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2011 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              324 of 331 DOCUMENTS


                           Aberdeen Press and Journal

                            December 30, 2011 Friday

UK was afraid Norway couldn't deal with offshore terror attack

BYLINE: Calum Ross

SECTION: NEWS; POLITICS; MPs; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 502 words


The UK Government feared Norway would not be able to cope if terrorists attacked
an oil platform in the North Sea, previously unseen records have revealed.

The confidential files from 1981, which can be made public for the first time
today, show senior British officials believed the Norwegians were "far from
ready" to deal with a major incident offshore. A year after the Iranian Embassy
siege in London, the UK security services appeared to be taking seriously the
prospect of a terrorist attack involving a North Sea platform.

Foreign Office staff drew up a document in 1981 called "contingency planning for
terrorist threats to North Sea oil installations".

Details of the strategy are being kept secret and will not be opened up by the
National Archives today. However, concerns within Margaret Thatcher's government
about Norway's capacity to deal with a terrorist incident in the North Sea are
laid bare in a file which contains a letter sent between officials.

Michael Burton, who was head of maritime, aviation and environment, which was
the Foreign Office department dealing with counter-terrorism strategies at the
time, raised the fears with Gillian Brown, the UK ambassador to Norway, on April
2, 1981.

In his letter, Mr Burton reported the outcome of talks between British officials
and their Norwegian counterparts as part of the contingency planning.

He said: "It was encouraging to learn that the Stavanger police and the Ministry
of Justice appear to have pressed ahead with contingency planning since the
talks in October 1980 in London.

"There was ample evidence of paper planning. But they are still far from ready.
If there were to be an incident on the Norwegian side of the median line in the
North Sea in the near future, the Norwegians would still not be in a position to
deal with it effectively without help. They still lack a trained specialist
military response force and the Stavanger police would be extremely stretched
indeed, in terms of resources, knowledge, skill and experience."

Mr Burton added it was "disappointing" that the Norwegian delegation said they
would expect to take charge of an incident in their side of the North Sea. talks

He said Norway was not keen to take part in follow-up talks in Aberdeen later
that year and that British officials should aim to "keep it simple" to encourage
them to participate and ensure they were not "embarrassed because of their
inexperience".

North-east terrorism expert David Capitanchik said the threat to the oil
platforms would not have been from IRA but rather countries such as Libya and
Iraq, and groups that would have later become al Qaida.

"It was not the groups like the IRA which we knew a lot about, it was groups
about which we did not know a great deal, that is groups that were the origins
of al Qaida," he said.

Prof Capitanchik said by the early 80s the safety of the platforms was becoming
an issue. Security got tightened up with restricted access to Aberdeen harbour
and all those going offshore were properly regulated.

LOAD-DATE: December 30, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: INSIGHT: Prime Minister Margaret Thatcher visits the BP Forties oil
field in the North Sea
RAF Buccaneer bombers fly over the Forties field

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: PJ


                      Copyright 2011 Aberdeen Journals Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                              325 of 331 DOCUMENTS



                          Future News - Media Planner

                            December 30, 2011 Friday

5th anniversary of Glasgow Airport terror attack

SECTION: NEWS; Anniversaries; Conflict & Terrorism

LENGTH: 77 words


5th anniversary of Jeep Cherokee loaded with gas cylinders driven into the doors
of the main terminal at Glasgow Airport and bursting into flames. Off-duty
baggage handler John Smeaton, 31, wrestled a man from the vehicle to the ground
and was awarded the Queen's Gallantry Medal. Attack followed seizure of two
similar car bombs in London's West End the previous day

Event Start Date: 2012-06-30

Event End Date: 2012-06-30

Event URL: http://www.strathclyde.police.uk/

LOAD-DATE: December 30, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                             Copyright 2011 Precise
                              All Rights Reserved

                              326 of 331 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring Middle East - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                           December 31, 2011 Saturday

Protesters in Iraqi capital call for trial of "terrorist attack" perpetrators

LENGTH: 391 words


Al-Iraqiyah Satellite Television in Arabic, in its morning newscasts on 30
December, reports on the protests that broke out in Baghdad to demand revealing
the perpetrators of the recent terrorist attacks and putting them on trial,
Parliament Rapporteur Muhammad al-Khalidi's statement saying that the
preparatory committee that was formed by virtue of political agreements to
organize the extensive meeting between the political blocs will hold its first
meeting next Monday in Baghdad, and the celebrations held in Iraqi governorates
to celebrate the US troops' withdrawal.

Political developments:

Within its 1300 gmt newscast, the channel carries the following reports:

-  "Parliament Rapporteur Muhammad al-Khalidi has stated that the preparatory
committee that was formed by virtue of political agreements to organize the
extensive meeting between the political blocs will hold its first meeting next
Monday [ 2 January 2011] in Baghdad. Al-Khalidi added that the committee, made
up of two members from every political bloc, will set a date and location for
the extensive meeting in addition to setting the meeting's schedule."

Within its 1700 gmt newscast, the channel carries the following reports:

-  "The people continue to celebrate the Iraqi national day in different cities
on the occasion of the US troops' withdrawal from Iraq. A celebration organized
in the Imam Abu-Hanifah al-Nu'man Mosque was held today in the Al-A'zamiyah
City. The attendees chanted and raised slogans rejoicing the departure of the US
troops. They also raised a big flag that covered the mosque's clock. Moreover,
they chanted a pledge that calls for the unity of Iraq to face any attempt to
divide it."

-  "Wasit Governorate was on top of the governorates celebrating the Iraqi
national day after its sons took to the streets and squares to rejoice the US
troops' withdrawal from Iraq. The attendees praised the government and security
forces' ability to preserve this successful accomplishment."

-  "Citizens have staged a demonstration in the Al-Tahrir Square to demand
revealing the perpetrators of recent terrorist attacks in Baghdad. The
protesters called for guaranteeing the rights of the victims' families, putting
the perpetrators on trial, and respecting the decisions of the Iraqi judiciary."

Source: Al-Iraqiyah TV, Baghdad, in Arabic 1300 gmt 30 Dec 11

LOAD-DATE: December 31, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2011 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              327 of 331 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring Middle East - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                           December 31, 2011 Saturday

"Terrorist" attack against Tripoli's power network foiled

LENGTH: 85 words


A "terrorist plan backed financially by remnants of the former regime and aimed
at attacking the electricity network and stations in Tripoli" has been
uncovered, the Libyan news agency WAL reported on 31 December.

The agency quoted a statement by the press office of the electricity and
renewable energies department as saying that the plan was "to plunge Tripoli
into darkness to allow them to carry out acts of sabotage in various parts of
Tripoli".

Source: WAL news agency, Tripoli, in Arabic 1407 gmt 31 Dec 11

LOAD-DATE: December 31, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2011 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              328 of 331 DOCUMENTS


                            Manchester Evening News

                           December 31, 2011 Saturday

Sledgehammer terror in attack on jewellery shop

BYLINE: WFnode

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 96 words


A MASKED man armed with a sledge hammer smashed open a glass display counter and
stole jewellery from a town centre store.

Police were called to Nathan & Co Jewellers and Pawnbrokers in Yorkshire Street
shortly after 12.15pm last Friday (23 December).

The armed robbery was witnessed snatching a significant amount of jewellery
before leaving the scene by car.

No members of staff were injured during the incident. Detectives are
investigating.

Anyone with information is asked to call police on 0161 856 4644 or call the
independent charity Crimestoppers anonymously on 0800 555 111.

LOAD-DATE: December 31, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: SMASH and grab â ¦ police on guard outside the jewellers shop after the
robbery

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2011 Manchester Evening News
                              All Rights Reserved

                              329 of 331 DOCUMENTS


                       BBC Monitoring Europe - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                             January 1, 2012 Sunday

Serbia warned by FBI about possible terrorist attacks - interior minister

LENGTH: 1034 words


Text of report by Serbian newspaper Blic website on 20 December

[Report by Zeljka Jevtic, Boris Vukovic: "FBI Warned Serbia About Domestic
Terrorists"]

Serbia has received a tip off based on intelligence gathered by US security
services, indicating on well founded grounds that there is a possibility of
terrorists attacks on targets of interest to the United Sates during the
upcoming festivities. Governments in several countries have been alerted to the
threat of small scale attacks by individuals who pick their targets on their
own. Police Minister Ivica Dacic has told Blic that the warning does not refer
to facilities and citizens of Serbia specifically and that there are no
operative indications that there are any such targets in Serbia, but that
nevertheless security measures to protect diplomatic and consular buildings,
facilities and officials will be stepped up.

US intelligence services believe that there are well founded grounds to expect
terrorist attacks on the American territory. However, they believe that
Al-Qa'idah is using propaganda to motivate individuals to carry out local
attacks in the countries where they happen to be. Hence a general alert urging
certain precautionary measures during the upcoming festivities. The warning is
not specifically for Serbia, but for practically all those countries where
American interests could be targeted, be they buildings or people, the police
minister told Blic.

No Concrete Reports

He went on to add that the Americans had sent a warning about the possibility of
several small scale attacks.

The US services believe that the biggest threat is posed by individual, lone
attackers. They act on their own, that is, they alone take decisions when to
attack, they are not concerned with the targets and pick those that are easily
accessible and are not guarded heavily. There is no intelligence that Serbia is
being threatened directly, but as a precautionary step and due to the recent
events in Bosnia-Hercegovina, we will tighten the security of diplomatic and
consular offices, including the US Embassy and its staff, Dacic said.

Keeping an Eye on Extremists

Owing to ever present threat over the past few years of terrorists expanding
their area of operation to include Serbia the government has raised the level of
surveillance of extremists groups and their activities. There is a tendency to
recruit terrorist in this region as well, and Wahhabi adherents are often
mentioned as a case in point. However, there have been no attacks on state
facilities either in Serbia or in the region as a whole.

Military affairs analyst Aleksandar Radic believes that there are two main
currents of international terrorism that could impact on Serbia. The first
involves the Wahhabis from the region of Raska [Sandzak] and Albanians in
southern Serbia, and the other includes Islamic extremists who are capable of
carrying out a terrorist outrage against a set target.

Wahhabis and Albanians

Security is at risk, but Serbia has never been known to be in the mainstream of
international terrorist activities. However, it is no secret that the country
faces a potential threat from Wahhabi followers and Albanians in the south of
the country who choose as their targets only security structures as a way of
gaining political mileage. They avoid targeting civilians because such action
would be counterproductive for them, Radic said.

However, the picture is very different with regard to terrorist threats from
outside the country.

Their target could be anything, but certainly not civilians. It is more likely
that some individuals could be a target, Radic said.

Security Level

Analyst Danijel Sunter says that like any other country, Serbia also faces
threats of terrorism, however, not to the same extent as the West European
countries or America.

None of us can remember a terrorist attack ever happening in Serbia, or
Belgrade, or Cacak, or Kragujevac. Serbia is not a country where there is a risk
of terrorists planting bombs under a car or in a cinema, or a shopping centre or
a bus stop, Sunter say s.

He stressed that after the Wahhabi attack in Sarajevo, Serbian police raised the
level of security of foreign embassies in Belgrade.

This is probably why the police minister was tipped off by his American
colleagues who identified the Wahhabis as a potential threat, Sunter believes.

Active Groups

According to the intelligence reports available to Serbian authorities, some
small groups such as the "Ebu Muhammed" [REFERENCE to Nedzad Balkan, aka Ebu
Muhammed, a radical Vienna based Salafi adherent] are active in this part of the
world. Among the radical Islamist Bosniaks the most influential fractions at the
moment are the "Nusret's" group directly controlled by Nusret Imamovic of Gornja
Maoca in Bosnia-Hercegovina and the "Takfiris" headed by Adem Demirovic from a
majsid [mosque without minaret] in Vienna.

[Box] Jasarevic Refuses To Say Anything About Snipers

Mevlid Jasarevic, a resident of Novi Pazar, carried out a terrorist attack on
the US Embassy in Sarajevo on 28 October when he fired shots from an automatic
rifle at the building.

He was arrested with three accomplices who helped him carry out the terrorists
attack: Emrah Fojnic, Dino Pecenkovic and Munib Ahmetspahic. During the
operation to arrest him and a subsequent raid in Gornja Maoca, regarded as the
centre of Wahhabi activity, a large amount of weapons and explosives was found.

At the hearing yesterday, the Bosnia-Hercegovina Prosecutor's Office failed to
obtain from Jasarevic any information about a sniper that could be seen in his
video message and from whom he had bought it.

Jasarevic spoke extensively about his life in Vienna and afterward, but the
prosecution did not receive answers to the key question of the sniper and it can
not be satisfied since the details of Jasarevic's earlier life are not that
important for the investigation, Jasarevic's lawyer Senad Dupovac said. He added
that during the hearing, Jasarevic was in the mood to talk, that while in
detention he had been visited by his wife, and that permission had been given
for his mother to visit him. She is expected to arrive from Vienna this week.

Source: Blic website, Belgrade, in Serbian 20 Dec 11

LOAD-DATE: January 1, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2012 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              330 of 331 DOCUMENTS



                                  Sunday Life

                                January 1, 2012
                                  Main Edition

DPPs warned of potential terror attack ...

BYLINE: ALAN MURRAY

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 267 words


DPPs warned of potential terror attack

DISSIDENT republicans still pose a threat to members of District Policing
Partnerships despite a significant lull in terrorist activity here.

Members of DPPs were warned before Christmas that they are still at risk from a
terrorist attack with the threat level remaining at "moderate".

The warning from the PSNI came in a message to Chairs of DPPs across the
province through the Chief Executive of the Policing Board.

The circular said that the "generic threat" from the different dissident groups
was assessed as moderate by the PSNI which meant "an attack is possible but not
likely".

But Belfast DPP Chairman Jim Rodgers urged that the message from the Policing
Board should not be downplayed.

"It does say that the threat is moderate but that does not mean that an attack
against a member of a DPP is not being planned.

"Members of DPPs have been attacked by the dissidents over the last year and it
would be foolish to be complacent," the Unionist councillor said.

The PSNI maintained that the overall level of threat from dissident republican
elements in Northern Ireland remains "severe" despite major arrests since the
murder of Constable Ronan Kerr.

And there is a general suspicion that the original dissident groups, the Real
IRA and the Continuity IRA, have now been heavily infiltrated by MI5 here and
the Garda in the Republic causing huge uncertainty within their ranks.

Oglaigh na hEireann is considered the least infiltrated of the main dissident
groups but it too has been relatively inactive in the last six months.

CAPTION: MURDERED: Constable Ronan Kerr

LOAD-DATE: January 1, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: SL


                  Copyright 2012 Belfast Telegraph Newspapers
                              All Rights Reserved

                              331 of 331 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                       January 1, 2012 Sunday 8:00 AM GMT

Hundreds of frontline health workers vaccinated against smallpox;
More than five hundred health workers have been vaccinated against smallpox
enabling them to deal with a biological terror attack at this year's Olympics.

BYLINE: By Edward Malnick

LENGTH: 496 words


The move highlights the level of concern within Whitehall over the prospect of
extremists turning to germ warfare. Elaborate measures are being taken to
counter a range of threats at the summer's Games, with the bill for venue
security and policing rising above £1 billion.

The Government has also stockpiled sufficient supplies of smallpox vaccines to
"mount a UK-wide vaccination programme" in the event of a deliberate release of
the disease, which was declared eradicated in 1980.

A Home Office report last January warned that Games venues or public transport
would make an "appealing target" for terrorists to launch biological attacks,
such as those involving smallpox. The deadly disease could be spread by aerosols
and is highly contagious.

The immunised medical staff includes 147 doctors, 164 nurses, 100 paramedics,
and 32 scientists, who have been divided up into a series of Smallpox Management
and Response Teams (SMART). Each team is made up of five health professionals,
including a specialist nurse and a paediatrician. All are specially trained in
smallpox diagnosis and management.

Although the teams were not specifically established for the Olympics, the
Government has drawn up contingency plans to ensure that they will be available
during the period of the Games in July and August.

Members of the teams were first identified and vaccinated in 2005, and they have
boosters every three years. In the event of an outbreak, they would be
immediately diverted from their regular jobs in the NHS and Health Protection
Agency.

Details of the arrangements have came to light after a former Conservative
minister raised questions in Parliament about the contingency plans for a
biological attack on the London games.

Lord Jopling warned in a Lords debate last month that a "pathetically low"
number of workers in the emergency services were vaccinated against smallpox and
anthrax.

In a letter following the Lords debate Lord Henley, a Home Office minister, said
the Government was prepared for a variety of scenarios.

"A wide range of possible incidents or attacks has been considered by
government. Following this process, the UK Health Departments have established
an appropriate stockpile of vaccines, medical countermeasures and specialist
equipment to be used to protect and treat the public and emergency responders,"
he wrote.

In the letter, dated December 19, Lord Henley added: "Government has taken steps
to protect emergency service personnel against such threats. A cohort of front
line health workers has been vaccinated to deal with any initial suspected or
confirmed cases of smallpox. No additional plans are in place specifically in
response to the impending London 2012 Olympics, although risks are regularly
reviewed based in part on the threat level in the national risks assessment
(NRA)."

A spokesman for the Department of Health said: "We have contingency plans in
place to ensure the appropriate staffing levels of those 516 during the
Olympics."

LOAD-DATE: January 1, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTNS


                  Copyright 2012 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved



---- End of Request ----
Download Request: Select Items: 1501 - 1831
Time Of Request: Wednesday, February 21, 2018  23:01:58

